03.06.2019	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 6, 2019 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 More than a Paper Guarantee: Doggett Urges Passage of the For the People Act, H.R.1 “Texas is ground zero for voter suppression.” Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Doggett urged passage of H.R.1, the For the People Act, of which he is a sponsor. He took to the floor to outline the ways that it would help Texans and all Americans, after he hosted Speaker Pelosi, Julieta Garibay, and Mimi Marziani in a press conference in Texas yesterday to outline the legislation. “Texas is ground zero for voter suppression. The bill makes the right to vote more than a paper guarantee, it makes it a reality by allowing people to know their own power, to shape our democracy, and hold every public official accountable,” said Congressman Doggett. He continued, “‘For the People’ means stopping the steady Trump erosion of our democracy by empowering the people to make their voices heard. I am so pleased that this legislation includes a provision that I authored to ensure that we seek the business tax returns. If left untouchable and unreachable without exposure to sunlight, we will find business tax returns hide the darkest secrets.” You can watch his speech below or here. Excerpts at bottom. “Texas is ground zero for voter suppression. Texas Republicans enacted the most stringent voter ID law in the country, they slashed communities across our state through partisan gerrymandering, and now this year, in what a federal court has just described as a ham-handed move which ‘exemplifies the power of government to strike fear and anxiety and to intimidate the least powerful among us.’ The Abbott administration initiated a massive voter purge by making the false claim that tens of thousands of people have voted illegally in our state. Our state has a problem. It's not too many people voting illegally, it's too few people voting at all. And the difference that you see in this debate is that we believe elections should be won for one party or the other based on turning out the voters, and too often our Republican colleagues believe they are won by throwing out the voters. I believe that the important reform that we're considering today will replace these purges with the urge to have voters participate by removing the many obstacles that stand in their way. It makes the right to vote more than a paper guarantee, it makes it a reality by allowing people to know their own power, to shape our democracy, and hold every public official accountable. ‘For the People’ means stopping the steady Trump erosion of our democracy by empowering the people to make their voices heard. I am so pleased that this legislation includes a provision that I authored to ensure that we seek the business tax returns, as well as the personal individual returns of candidates for president. Now, this amendment is directed not specifically at Mr. Trump, but his conduct underscores why we must require it. He had his personal law firm review his tax returns and they awarded him an all clear from any Russian connection. They noted that he was the sole or principal owner of 500 separate business entities that stretch from Azerbaijan to Miami, and they gave him an all-clear which he asked us to rely without noting that the same firm proudly boasted it was ‘the Russia law firm of the year.’ Some of us believe we need a little more credible source to review his conduct, but not just his conduct, that of anyone for either party that aspires to be the most powerful person in the entire world. Even President Nixon invited the Joint Committee on Taxation to review his tax returns, explaining that the people have got to know whether their president is a crook, something very relevant to our times. Candidates who cannot meet the very low Richard Nixon standard have no right to our highest office. If left untouchable and unreachable without exposure to sunlight, we will find business tax returns hide the darkest secrets. It is good that we have a strong act demanding disclosure of those returns.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
03.06.2019	***Media Advisory*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 6, 2019 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 ADVISORY: Chairman Doggett to Hold Hearing on Affordability, Competition & Access to Medicines in Medicare Washington, DC — House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Lloyd Doggett announces that the Subcommittee will hold a hearing on access to medicines in Medicare. The hearing will explore ways that Medicare can encourage affordability, competition, and access to medicines, particularly as patients face a prescription drug affordability crisis. It will take place tomorrow, Thursday, March 7, 2019, in the main Committee hearing room, 1100 Longworth House Office Building, beginning at 10:00 a.m. EST. What: Hearing on Promoting Competition to Lower Medicare Drug Prices When: 10:00 a.m. EST Tomorrow, Thursday, March 7 (Media access to the committee room will begin at 9:30 a.m. EST) Where: 1100 Longworth House Office Building via door across from 1135 Watch: Livestream will be available HERE. ### Follow Chairman Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
03.05.2019	An investigation by Texas officials into potential voter fraud that threatened to jeopardize voting rights of naturalized citizens illustrates how important voter rights protections are, U.S. Speaker Nancy Pelosi in Austin on Tuesday. The activity in the Texas “shows only more importantly the need” for voting rights legislation the U.S. House will take up this week, Pelosi said. H.R. 1, the “For the People Act,” is designed to ease voting; reduce partisan redistricting; and limit what Pelosi called “the influence of big, dark money” in campaigns. Critical of moves in Washington and Texas revolving around voting, Pelosi said the state investigation was “part of a whole picture of undermining the Constitution.” She was joined by Julieta Garibay, the lead plaintiff in a lawsuit accusing Texas state officials of illegally targeting her and others because they are foreign-born. State officials have acknowledged that an initial list of 95,000 suspect voters that was circulated to county election officials includes at least 25,000 naturalized U.S. citizens who are eligible to cast a ballot. A federal judge recently criticized the state’s investigation as ham-handed and flawed, and on Monday, the secretary of state’s office told officials, in accordance with the judge’s decision, to “pause their efforts” to verify the citizenship status of registered voters, halting for now the nearly six-week-old investigation. Texas Secretary of State David Whitley, state Attorney General Ken Paxton and Gov. Greg Abbott “sounded a false alarm of voter fraud, not only trampling my rights but intimidating foreign-born naturalized citizens from exercising our right to vote,” Garibay said. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, said at the event that Texas officials had trafficked in “false claims.” “We believe the focus needs to be on bringing more people to vote not driving them away,” he said. The visit of Pelosi to Texas — on Monday night she gave the keynote speech at the Travis County Democratic Party — was instantly used by Republicans to try to raise money. “Nancy Pelosi is coming after Texas,” U.S. Rep. Chip Roy, a Republican who lives in unincorporated Hays County and represents parts of South and Central Austin, said in a fundraising note. “We will keep Texas Republican, strong and prosperous with your help — wherever you live. Speaker Pelosi isn’t kidding that Texas will determine the fate of the nation.”
03.05.2019	AUSTIN, Texas — Nancy Pelosi spoke about voting rights in Austin during a press conference Tuesday morning. Congressman Lloyd Dogget, as well as other Texas voting rights advocates, were in attendance. The speakers addressed the importance of improving voter rights, specifically the For the People Act, which will be considered in the House this week. The For the People Act, also known as H.R. 1, would make it easier for people to vote and make it harder for lawmakers to gerrymander. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi talked about how this act is important to the constitution. “Our constitution requires what the voting rights act spells out," Pelosi said. “This is about instilling the confidence of the American people in the political process.” Pelosi went to to say the act is about giving the American people a stronger voice. “Its about the American people saying we want the American people to choose our politicians, we don’t want our politicians to choose our American people.” Congressman Lloyd Doggett spoke after Pelosi, saying he is confident the bill will pass. “This is a 600-page bill and I believe that this week, under her (Pelosi) leadership, it will be approved.” Doggett said.
03.05.2019	House Speaker Nancy Pelosi made a visit to East Austin on Tuesday to promote sweeping voting legislation currently before Congress. Among many other things, House Bill 1 would ensure online voter registration or automatic registration for citizens across the country. The bill would require paper trails for electronic voting machines and prohibit states from removing voters from their rolls, also known as “voter purges.” The issue of voter purges was front and center during her visit. At an event with U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, Pelosi highlighted the case of Julieta Garibay, an Austin resident who is the lead plaintiff in a lawsuit challenging Texas’ effort to remove alleged noncitizens from voter rolls. “Texas points out how vitally important this is and is the evidence of the need for this legislation,” Pelosi said. Garibay was one of more than 90,000 people on Texas’ voter rolls whom Texas Secretary of State David Whitley flagged as potential noncitizens. In January, Whitley sent lists of those voters to local election officials and asked them to begin the process of removing ineligible voters from the rolls. But officials across the state quickly found that the list contained the names of thousands of eligible voters – most were recently naturalized citizens. During the event Tuesday, Garibay accused state officials – including Whitley, Gov. Greg Abbott and Attorney General Ken Paxton – of “suppressing” her vote. “Whitley, Paxton and Abbott sounded a false alarm of voter fraud with the sole purpose of not only trampling over my rights as a U.S. citizen, but of intimidating foreign-born naturalized citizens,” she said. A federal judge recently ordered state and local officials to temporarily stop these voter-removal efforts. U.S. District Court Judge Fred Biery in San Antonio accused Whitley of creating a “mess.” In his ruling, he also called the state’s endeavor a “solution looking for a problem.” “The very actions of the secretary of state point out the brazenness of what some will do to suppress the vote,” Pelosi said. Doggett pointed to a slew of other voting laws in Texas that he said suppress the vote. He said that includes “the worst and most stringent voter ID law” in the country, as well as partisan gerrymandering in the state. “As you know, Austin is the largest city any place in America that does not have a majority of its citizens within one congressional district,” Doggett said. If passed, HB 1 would address that issue. One provision in the bill would take away the power of state legislatures to draw congressional districts and task independent commissions with that work instead. The legislation faces an uphill battle in the U.S. Senate, though. In an op-ed for The Washington Post earlier this year, McConnell called the bill “a power grab” and vowed not to let senators vote on it. Despite this, Pelosi said she was pressing on. “I don’t think that we should be deterred by what somebody might think will happen in the Senate,” she said. “You never know.”
03.05.2019	Congressional Democrats are likely to request 10 years of President Trump’s tax returns in coming weeks, tailoring their inquiry in a way they hope will survive a court battle, according to lawmakers and others involved in the discussions. The exact parameters of the request are still in flux, including whether to seek tax returns related to Trump’s many business enterprises in addition to his personal returns. But Democrats led by House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Richard E. Neal (D-Mass.), along with congressional lawyers, are in the advanced stages of preparing the request. They’re relying on a 1924 law that gives chairmen of House and Senate tax-writing committees broad powers to demand the tax returns of White House officials. They said they are being deliberate so as not to make a mistake that jeopardizes the investigation. “If we had done this a month and a half ago, we would not be prepared, we would be falling on our face, and we’d be looking at the rationale for what we’re doing,” said Rep. Bill Pascrell Jr. (D-N.J.), who along with other Democrats has pushed for congressional action to get at the tax returns practically since Trump took office. “Would I have liked it to go faster? I started two years ago. Yes, of course.” Pascrell, a member of Neal’s committee, would not give an estimate for when the inquiry could come, but he said he is advocating for a sweeping request for records, which would include both personal and business tax filings in search of a comprehensive view of Trump’s compliance with the law. As House Democrats begin to roll out probes of the Trump administration on multiple fronts, some lawmakers say Trump’s tax returns could contain information critical to many of their inquiries and, as such, could become the linchpin to their oversight responsibilities and the focus of one of the most important court fights they will wage. Trump has made clear to associates that he has no plans to allow Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to turn over his personal tax records, according to three people who have been briefed on the discussions but spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly. The 1924 law does not appear to give Mnuchin much flexibility to deny a congressional request, as the law says he “shall” turn over the records. But if he refuses, Democrats would probably try to compel Mnuchin to comply by filing a lawsuit in federal court. That could drag the process out for months or more than a year, which could be one of Trump’s primary legal strategies, particularly if he thinks Republicans might take control of the House of Representatives during the 2020 elections. “What the president will do is: He will, first of all, respond grudgingly and slowly. They will then negotiate,” said former House speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.). “They will be subpoenaed. They will take that all the way to the Supreme Court.” George Yin, former chief of staff for Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation, said there is no precedent for a treasury secretary to refuse to comply with a congressional request for tax returns, but if the matter goes to court, Democrats could be forced to prove the inquiry is part of Congress’s “lawmaking function or its oversight responsibilities.” Congressional leaders have never used the 1924 law to seek the tax returns of a sitting U.S. president, but no president in recent history has refused to voluntarily disclose his tax returns. House Democrats included a new requirement for presidential candidates to release 10 years’ worth of personal tax returns in legislation on campaign finance and government ethics they plan to pass this week, although Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) has made clear he won’t take up the bill. During the 2016 campaign, Trump gave a variety of reasons for why he would not release his tax returns. One of the most prominent reasons was his claim that the tax returns were being audited by the Internal Revenue Service and that he would release them when that process is over. He repeated that claim in November, after Democrats won the midterm elections. “Nobody turns over a [return] when it’s under audit,” he said during a news conference. But that characterization came into question last week, when Trump’s former personal attorney, Michael Cohen, told a House committee that his understanding was that Trump didn’t release his tax returns for a much different reason. “What he didn’t want is to have an entire group of think tanks that are tax experts run through his tax return and start ripping it to pieces, and then he’ll end up in an audit, and he’ll ultimately have taxable consequences, penalties and so on,” Cohen said, adding that, “I presume that he is not under audit.” A White House spokesman did not respond to a request for comment about the tax return issue. In 2017, Mnuchin told a congressional committee that he wasn’t aware of whether Trump’s tax returns were being audited, as “I don’t have access to that, that’s within the IRS. I don’t have access to specific taxpayer-level information.” Steve Moore, who was an economic adviser to Trump during the 2016 campaign, said he advised Trump to “never, ever, ever, ever release his tax returns.” Moore said Democrats tried to make an issue of Trump’s refusal to release the tax returns during the 2016 campaign, and Trump’s victory in the election should serve as validation that voters weren’t particularly interested in what the returns said. “It would be a total abuse of power and a violation of Donald Trump’s right of privacy,” Moore said. Democrats have said they want to review Trump’s tax returns to see whether there’s any evidence of conflicts of interest, inappropriate business relationships and improper influence by foreign governments. They’re also looking to understand the precise impact of the 2017 tax cuts on his personal finances, as well as whether he has used inappropriate or illegal tax schemes in the past. “There’s always a legitimate reason to look at your president’s tax returns,” said Janice Mays, a managing director of PwC who spent 40 years on the House Ways and Means Committee as a Democratic aide. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Tex.), another member of the Ways and Means Committee, said Democrats must move as soon as possible because he believes it will take a long time to review the tax returns once they are provided. “If the desire is to get this information and have it be properly analyzed, it’s essential action be taken immediately,” he said in an interview. Neal’s office declined to comment. Ashley Etienne, a spokeswoman for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), said the Ways and Means Committee is consulting with other committees to make sure House lawmakers “present the strongest possible case.” But Gingrich said he believes the inquiry is part of a desperate attempt by Democrats to try to bring Trump down after previous efforts and investigations have failed. He said Democrats are trying to throw the “kitchen sink” at the White House because they have been unable to prove that Trump colluded with the Russian government in the run-up to the 2016 election, among other things. Gingrich said that even if Democrats somehow were able to obtain the documents, they would be required under law to keep the documents confidential, something he believes would prove impossible for Democrats to do. “Is there anybody in Washington who believes it will not be leaked?” he said. House Democrats could hold a series of votes to publicly release the records, but that could also force them to explain what the precise legislative purpose would be for such a move. Mnuchin has said he would review any congressional inquiry regarding tax returns but has not committed to turning over any records. He could be pressed to explain his rationale as soon as next week, though, when he’s expected to testify before Neal’s committee.
03.05.2019	AUSTIN (KXAN) - Many look at Central Texas as the best example of drawing Congressional lines to keep one party out of power. Austin is a Democratic powerhouse but is represented by five Republicans and one Democrat. Speaker of the United States House of Representative Nancy Pelosi held a press conference in Austin with the lone Austin Democrat, Rep. Lloyd Doggett. They're holding the event to talk about HR 1, a bill in Congress that will reform redistricting and change and protect voters who are foreign-born. The U.S. House is expected to vote on the bill later this week. She was joined by Mimi Marziana, the President of the Texas Civil Rights Project and Julieta Garibay, co-founder of United We Dream. They are two of the litigants against the Texas Secretary of State over its flawed 'non-citizen' voter check.
03.04.2019	***Media Advisory*** March 4, 2019 Contacts: Kate Stotesbery (Rep. Doggett) 202-225-4865 Taylor Griffin (Speaker Pelosi) 202-225-0100 AUSTIN ADVISORY: Congressman Doggett, Speaker Pelosi, & Texas Voting Rights Advocates Speak on Electoral Reforms Package #ForThePeople Austin, TX — On Tuesday in Austin, Congressman Lloyd Doggett will host a press conference with Speaker Nancy Pelosi and leading Texas voting rights advocates Mimi Marziani, President of Texas Civil Rights Project, and Julieta Garibay, Texas Director and Co-Founder of United We Dream. Julieta is also the lead plaintiff in a lawsuit accusing Texas state officials of illegally targeting her and others because they are foreign-born. The speakers will address the importance to Texans of approving the electoral reforms in H.R.1, the For the People Act, which will be considered in the House this week. This legislation is designed to make it easier, not harder, to vote; reduce partisan redistricting; and end the dominance of big money in our politics. What: Community Event and Press Conference on Voting Rights and H.R. 1, the For the People Act, ahead of upcoming House vote When: 9:30 a.m. Tomorrow, Tuesday, March 5 Cameras should be preset in the building at 8:30 a.m. for a security sweep Where: Springdale General, Building 11 1023 Springdale Rd, Austin, TX 78721 Who: Speaker Nancy Pelosi Congressman Lloyd Doggett Julieta Garibay, Texas Director and Co-Founder of United We Dream Mimi Marziani, President of Texas Civil Rights Project ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
02.28.2019	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 28, 2019 CONTACT Erin Hatch, 202-225-2856 Chairman Doggett Announces Health Subcommittee Hearing on Promoting Competition to Lower Medicare Drug Prices WASHINGTON, DC – House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Lloyd Doggett announced today that the Subcommittee will hold a hearing, entitled “Promoting Competition to Lower Medicare Drug Prices” on Thursday, March 7, 2019, at 10:00 a.m. in room 1100 Longworth House Office Building. What: Hearing on Promoting Competition to Lower Medicare Drug Prices When: 10:00 a.m. on Thursday, March 7Media access to the committee room will begin at 9:30 a.m. Where: 1100 Longworth House Office Building via door across from 1135 Watch: Livestream will be available HERE. ###
02.27.2019	U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer on Wednesday batted down the prospect of submitting a final trade deal with China to Congress for approval. "We have no intentions of submitting it to Congress," Lighthizer said during a House Ways and Means hearing, adding that the deal is "an executive agreement, we're not required to send it to Congress." The trade official was pressed on the issue by Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) after an exchange last Friday between Lighthizer and President Donald Trump on whether to refer to a deal as a memorandum of understanding. Trump dismissed Lighthizer's explanation that an MOU would be a binding agreement, saying he didn't like the term. Lighthizer then said he wouldn't use the term MOU again and would call any deal a trade agreement from now on. "It's a binding trade agreement. A contract as the president referred to it," Doggett said. "And as a binding trade agreement given the statutory authority that you and the president have to negotiate delegated by Congress, can you outline to us what you would anticipate after the agreement, what would be the timetable for submitting it to Congress for approval? Lighthizer said any deal would be a settlement of action taken under Section 301 of the 1974 Trade Act, which authorizes the president to enact tariffs in response to unfair trade practices. "The president is using his action under Section 301 which has been delegated and it's an executive agreement which the Constitution gives the president the right to enter into. We're not changing any tariff lines. We're not using TPA," he said, referring to trade promotion authority legislation, which is the current process for getting comprehensive trade deals approved in Congress. Congress has constitutional authority of matters of commerce but has delegated a number of authorities to the executive branch. The somewhat testy exchange came despite Lighthizer meeting with Republicans and Democrats ahead of the hearing to preempt any potential clashes with lawmakers. Doggett added that a deal based on commodity purchases rather than structural changes to China's state-led economy "is an agreement not worth having." "I agree completely with that statement," Lighthizer said.
02.26.2019	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 26, 2019 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Ignoring the Borders of Our Constitution: Doggett on Resolution to Block Trump’s Emergency Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Doggett urged passage of the resolution, of which he is a sponsor, to block President Trump’s emergency powers declaration. He took to the floor as President Trump attempts to use to divert money from security needs and into construction of his wall. “The serious border emergency that America is confronted with today is an emergency that Donald Trump has created by ignoring borders—ignoring the borders set forth in our Constitution. Borders that were set forth to prevent an all-powerful executive, a would-be king, or the type of tyrant that Trump so admires abroad,” said Congressman Doggett. He continued, “After Congress repeatedly rejected his phony border crisis and wasteful wall, Trump decided, ‘build it anyway.’” You can watch his speech below or here. Excerpts at bottom. “The serious border emergency that America is confronted with today is an emergency that Donald Trump has created by ignoring borders—ignoring the borders set forth in our Constitution. Borders that were set forth to prevent an all-powerful executive, a would-be king, or the type of tyrant that Trump so admires abroad. After Congress repeatedly rejected his phony border crisis and wasteful wall, Trump decided, ‘build it anyway.’ Today's emergency would not have happened without two years of Republicans who continued to yield the right of way to his creeping wrongdoing, more and more of it. Republicans who can just never summon the ability to say ‘no’ to Trump. Today, we must reject this unconstitutional power grab that diverts resources from real threats to an imaginary, politically-contrived one. Today, we defend our Constitution and democracy by pushing back on the lies, the deceit, the anti-immigrant hysteria, and the fear mongering mismanagement of this administration.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
02.26.2019	UNITED STATES CONGRESS For Immediate Release February 26, 2019 Contacts: Kate Stotesbery (Doggett) 202-225-4865 Richard Luchette (Cicilline) 202-225-4911 Reps. Doggett & Cicilline Introduce Special Counsel Transparency Act Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) and Congressman David Cicilline (D-RI) introduced legislation to ensure that the Attorney General cannot impede public release of a Special Counsel’s report. This Special Counsel Transparency Act is a companion to a bill introduced by Sens. Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT). “Ensuring Trump cannot build a wall around the Special Counsel’s work is essential to preserving our democracy,” said Congressman Doggett, a senior member on the Ways and Means Committee. “For the rule of law to stand, the Administration cannot be allowed to sit on the report. This legislation safeguards over a year of taxpayer-funded law enforcement work and assures the right of Americans to see justice served. I hope the House can give strong approval to this reasonable legislation that already enjoys bipartisan support in the Senate.” “The American people deserve to see exactly what Special Counsel Robert Mueller found during his investigation, a nearly two year criminal probe that has resulted in 199 criminal charges, 37 indictments, 7 guilty pleas, and 4 prison sentences,” said Congressman Cicilline, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee. “Sadly, Attorney General Bill Barr made it clear during his confirmation hearing that he plans to abide only by Department of Justice polices that are convenient for he and President Trump, even refusing to commit to abide by career DOJ ethics’ officials possible recommendation he recuse himself from oversight of the Mueller investigation. He should not be the person who decides what Congress and the public get to see. I’m proud to work with Congressman Doggett on this bill to make sure that the American people will be able to draw their own conclusions from reading the Special Counsel’s report themselves.” If the Special Counsel is fired or at the conclusion of the investigation, this bill would: Require the Special Counsel to provide a report to the House and Senate Judiciary Committees detailing the status of the investigation as of the date of dismissal and facts found, explanations of decisions to pursue or decline prosecution, and any consultations with the Department of Justice concerning the scope of jurisdiction of the investigation; Require that such report include an annex of any classified material; Require that the unclassified portions of the report be made publicly available by the Department of Justice and that a written explanation be provided to Congress should the Department determine that any unclassified portions should not be made available. ###
02.25.2019	WASHINGTON — President Trump’s decision to back off his threat to raise tariffs on Chinese goods carries substantial political risk as the president faces increased pressure from Republicans, Democrats and some of his own advisers to win the kind of tough concessions that Beijing has long resisted. Citing “substantial progress” in talks between the United States and China, Mr. Trump on Sunday evening halted plans to raise tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods at the end of this week. On Monday, the president predicted that President Xi Jinping of China would soon join him at Mar-a-Lago, Mr. Trump’s Florida resort, for a “signing summit.” “We’re getting very, very close,” Mr. Trump said at a gathering of governors at the White House. Mr. Trump’s optimism has cheered Wall Street and business lobbyists, who have been pushing for a quick end to the trade war. But Democrats and even some Republicans are not so sanguine. Top Democrats, in an effort to outflank Mr. Trump on China, are warning loudly that the Chinese may simply be dangling false promises in hopes of getting the president to end a trade war that is hurting American farmers and damaging the Chinese economy. Some Republicans fear that Mr. Trump may settle for a deal that simply reduces the trade deficit between the two countries and potentially offers relief to a Chinese telecommunication giant, Huawei, which is facing criminal charges in the United States. “It’s become a real concern that Democrats could use this against him in the 2020 election,” Michael Pillsbury, director of Chinese strategy at the Hudson Institute and a White House adviser, said of the dangers of Mr. Trump cutting a modest trade deal with China. Mr. Trump has positioned his monthslong trade fight with China as necessary to win “the biggest deal” in history. China has agreed to make some changes to its trading relationship with America, including purchasing more soybeans and natural gas and preventing currency manipulation. The government has also committed to opening up financial services, insurance and car markets, changes the Chinese have previously discussed. But many of the biggest sticking points still remain, including China’s state subsidization of companies, which gives Chinese firms a competitive advantage. Beijing also still appears to be falling short of the administration’s demands to stop what it says is a pattern of cybertheft and to end a requirement that American companies hand over valuable intellectual property as a condition of doing business there, people familiar with the negotiations said. The Chinese are touting a clause in their investment law that would crack down on such transfers of technologies and offering up tougher regulations surrounding patents and copyrights, but some administration officials are skeptical that these changes will go far enough. The Chinese embassy released a statement through China’s state news agency, Xinhua, on Monday saying talks over the weekend were focused “on the text of an agreement” and that the two sides would continue to push toward an agreement. “The Chinese delegation said that substantial progress was made on such specific issues as technology transfer, protection of intellectual property rights, non-tariff barriers, service industry, agriculture and exchange rates,” the statement said. Top Democrats have focused on Mr. Trump’s desire to reduce the bilateral trade deficit with China and are prepared to call any agreement that is based primarily on purchases of American soybeans, liquid natural gas and other farm products a failure. “At the heart of our economic challenges with China is its shirking of market economics, so it is troubling that Donald Trump may settle for a government commitment to buy U.S. agriculture as a means to let China off the hook,” said Senator Ron Wyden, a Democrat from Oregon. Democrats will have their first formal opportunity to confront the Trump administration directly on its China trade policy on Wednesday when Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, testifies before the House Ways and Means Committee. Mr. Lighthizer, a longtime China hard-liner and the administration’s top negotiator, is expected to face tough questioning from Democrats seeking assurances Mr. Trump will not accept a watered-down deal and declare victory. “With so many losses, Trump needs a win and any win will suffice — even one that is just Chinese promises of future purchases without meaningful, structural reform,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat who sits on the Ways and Means Committee. Mr. Trump has already started to signal his political concerns publicly. During a news conference at the White House this month, the president suggested that he would invite Democratic leaders to participate in negotiations with China so that they would not be able to undercut whatever agreement he reaches. “Any deal I make with China, Schumer is going to stand up and say, ‘Oh, it should’ve been better,’ ” Mr. Trump said, referring to Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader. “That’s called politics.” An aide to Mr. Schumer said that no invitation has been offered. Last week, Mr. Trump even embraced Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont on trade. The president said that Mr. Sanders, who is making his second presidential run as a Democrat, tends to agree with him on the issue and that Mr. Sanders is “tough on trade.” While Mr. Sanders has praised some of Mr. Trump’s moves on trade, he has also been critical of his negotiating approach in some cases, and has opposed the Trump administration’s steel and aluminum tariffs on Canada, Mexico and Europe. Mr. Pillsbury said that Mr. Trump’s campaign advisers have been gathering opposition research files on potential 2020 rivals and carefully taking note of what certain people, such as Senator Sherrod Brown, the Ohio Democrat who is considering a run, have been saying about China. Mr. Brown was one of three top Democrats — along with Mr. Schumer and Mr. Wyden — who sent a letter to Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, this month urging the administration to “stay aggressive” and ensure that China commits to verifiable, enforceable reforms. The letter was sent following reports that Mr. Mnuchin wanted to scale back Chinese tariffs in advance of a deal. “I will wait to judge the outcome of the trade talks until I know what’s been agreed to,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “But it’s imperative that the White House secures an enforceable deal that includes long-term structural reforms to stop China’s unfair trade practices and ensures American workers can compete on a level playing field.” Officials from both countries have continued to be vague about the details of the progress, leading to speculation that China is just repackaging old promises as new concessions. China experts and business lobbyists say that the Chinese government has been carefully watching the shifting political dynamics in the United States, along with Mr. Trump’s ongoing legal turmoil, as it determines how to navigate the trade war in an environment with Democrats controlling more power in Washington. In some cases, newly empowered Democrats have become an asset to the administration’s China hawks, Mr. Lighthizer and Peter Navarro, who have been pressing Mr. Trump not to cut a modest deal and roll back tariffs to please Wall Street. Mr. Schumer has long been critical of China’s trade practices that have been harmful to the rural parts of New York State and he has been a vocal critic of China’s history of currency manipulation. Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s return as the leader of the House of Representatives was also met with wariness in China. She has for years been outspoken about China’s human rights record and has met on multiple occasions with the Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader vilified by China. Because of that long history, Mr. Trump’s advisers fear that Democrats in Congress will have more credibility when criticizing Mr. Trump’s eventual China agreement even if it does not require congressional approval. “The Democrats are going to use this against him,” said Craig Allen, president of the U.S.-China Business Council. “As we go into the election cycle, it is natural and part of our national tradition that one side criticizes the other for China.” Mr. Allen noted that political protest in the United States over China goes back to the country’s inception, with the Boston Tea Party triggered by anger over imports of Chinese tea and that the anti-China sentiment tends to bubble up every four years. In 2012, Senator Harry Reid, then the Democratic majority leader, called for U.S. Olympic uniforms to be burned when it emerged that they were made in China. There are also signs that Mr. Trump could face backlash from his own party if he is too conciliatory. During his meeting with a Chinese delegation in the Oval Office on Friday, Mr. Trump raised eyebrows among Republicans when he suggested that relief for Huawei, which has been charged with stealing intellectual property and impeding an investigation into the telecom company’s attempt to evade economic sanctions on Iran, could be part of the trade deal. Following Mr. Trump’s comment, Senator Tom Cotton, a Republican from Arkansas, wrote in a post on Twitter that Huawei is a “serious national security threat” and a “Trojan Horse” for the Chinese Communist Party. And Senator Marco Rubio, a Florida Republican, dismissed a tweet by Sonny Perdue, the agriculture secretary, for touting China’s commitment to buy an extra 10 million metric tons of soybeans and said that any deal that allows China to keep “stealing trade secrets” will not be a success. The blowback from both directions may leave Mr. Trump little choice but to keep the threat of tariffs alive so that he can continue to claim he’s being tough on China, analysts said. In a January interview with The New York Times, Mr. Trump acknowledged that some of the $250 billion worth of tariffs could be made permanent. On Monday, as Mr. Trump headed to Hanoi for a meeting with North Korean Leader Kim Jung Un, he tweeted “Relationship between our two Countries is very strong. I have therefore agreed to delay U.S. tariff hikes. Let’s see what happens?”
02.25.2019	WASHINGTON - Democratic Texas Rep. Lloyd Doggett, who took over a key health-care post in the new Congress, plans to meet with Trump administration officials amid signs of bipartisan momentum to address consumers’ desire to stem the rising costs of prescription drugs. Doggett, who represents Austin and San Antonio, has fought unsuccessfully in the past to end a rule prohibiting Medicare from negotiating with drug companies when buying tens of billions of dollars in prescription drugs for seniors annually. The Veterans Administration already negotiates prices for its drugs. What could make this year different is President Donald Trump, an industry antagonist who has accused pharmaceutical companies of “getting away with murder.” Trump administration officials have held initial meetings with lawmakers, suggesting willingness to sign drug-pricing bills of some variety. And in the run-up to the 2020 presidential election, both major parties are eager to claim success on a matter of overwhelming concern to voters. As chairman of the Ways and Means health subcommittee, Doggett will play a key role in health-care matters this Congress. He plans to brief members on Medicare issues Thursday and hold a hearing next week on the benefits of competitive drug pricing. His message to administration officials early next month, he said, “is to follow the advice of candidate Trump” - who endorsed negotiating drug prices. “We’ll be looking for common ground,” he said. “I’m seeing an improved awareness of the problem. The question is whether that transfers into votes.” Starting Tuesday, the issue heats up on Capitol Hill when executives from seven top drug manufacturers testify in front of the Senate Finance Committee. The CEOs had sought to meet privately with senators, irritating Republicans and Democrats alike. Texas Sen. John Cornyn illustrated Republicans’ concerns when he referred in a recent hearing to “kickbacks” in the drug industry. “Can anybody on the panel explain to me why we have a general prohibition against kickbacks — call them rebates — under the Social Security Act, but we nevertheless allow it for prescription drug pricing?” Cornyn asked in a Finance Committee session. On Friday, the Finance panel announced a bipartisan investigation into insulin prices, citing increases as high as 585 percent in a diabetes treatment that has been on the market for nearly 100 years. Some 30 million Americans suffer from diabetes. Perhaps more than any other policy issue in Washington, the effort to slow spiraling prescription costs offers potential for bipartisan success, analysts say. “Everything seems to be aligning for something to happen on drug pricing. Democrats are going to push it and Trump and (Health and Human Services Secretary Alex) Azar are very supportive of doing something on this,” said Walid Gellad, director of the Center for Pharmaceutical Policy and Prescribing at the University of Pittsburgh. Campaign issue for Democrats in 2020 — and for Trump The issue of higher drug costs was a key part of House Democrats’ carefully crafted talking points in the midterms, a message that helped them flip 40 seats. Gellad predicts that Democrats seeking their party’s presidential nomination will be talking “non-stop” about drug prices on the campaign trail and in the candidate debates, which begin in June. Ohio Sen. Sherrod Brown, Doggett’s partner in drug-pricing legislation, hinted last week that he, too, may join the array of Democrats running for president. Doggett’s plan already has one co-sponsor in the field - Minnesota Sen. Amy Klobuchar - and likely will have more. For Trump, who prides himself on keeping campaign promises, the issue also looks to be important in his 2020 campaign. The president spoke boldly in his State of the Union message about it being “unacceptable” for Americans to pay more for the same drug than consumers in other countries. “This is wrong, this is unfair, and together we will stop it. We will stop it fast,” the president said, asking Democrats to help. The Trump administration has taken several steps to bring down costs, most of them voluntary for the drug companies, and he took credit in the State of the Union for success. He is planning a bigger initiative with a rule, being written now, that would tie drug prices in a Medicare program to the average costs in several developed, mostly European, countries. But that rule, if it survives, is years away from having an effect; a pilot project wouldn’t begin for more than a year. An array of legislation already is pending, among them minor bills calling for more transparency about prices and more weighty measures that would cap out-of-pocket drug costs for seniors. Pay-for-delay practice targeted Doggett also intends to press for legislation that would end the industry’s so-called pay for delay practice, in which brand-name drug companies pay to block or slow the arrival to the market of competitive generics. The mere fact that discussions are taking place has bred optimism. Amid rancorous dealings over the border wall and government shutdown, Trump and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., have spoken about what might be achieved. Azar has sat down with Democrats in both the Senate and House. Rep. Peter Welch, D-Vt., a close Doggett ally, was invited to Camp David this month to meet with White House Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney on the matter, Welch’s office confirmed. Last week, Welch introduced still another drug pricing bill, one that would allow diabetes patients to buy cheaper insulin in Canada and elsewhere; importing now is banned. In 2003, Doggett and Brown, then a House member, worked together to block the provision banning Medicare negotiating with drug-makers. The prohibition was nonetheless included to win support for the Medicare Part D legislation, a significant new social program for seniors and people with disabilities that George W. Bush signed into law. Allowing Medicare to launch its own effort to tamp down prices could have major consequences. Part D covers 43 million people, making it the federal government’s largest drug program. All told, prescription drugs cost taxpayers more than $130 billion annually, about one fifth of all Medicare spending. In a decade’s time, Medicare’s share of the nation’s entire retail prescription market rose from 18 percent to 30 percent, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation. Yet the 16-year-old law asserts that the government may not “interfere with the negotiations between drug manufacturers and pharmacies” - words that Doggett and Brown seek to strike from the law. The goal, they say “is a reasonable price that encourages continued innovation and research but does not impose a monopoly price.” Winning the argument would require skeptics in the president’s party to accept an expanded government role in health care. New government powers would be invoked if a negotiation with a manufacturer failed. The government then could issue a license allowing other manufacturers to produce a drug - if they compensate the original license-holder. When Doggett and Brown stood together recently to introduce their legislation, Doggett referred to “rampant prescription price gouging.” Added Brown: “The purpose of medicine is to help people, not to line the pockets of Big Pharma executives.”
02.23.2019	In Washington, we’ve had ups, downs – and even worse – shutdowns. But this year has seen some progress and a renewed hope for the future. After joining 1,600 members and guests at the San Antonio Hispanic Chamber’s 90th gala, where we welcomed new Chairman John Agather and new President and CEO, Diane Sánchez, I then welcomed more than 180 San Antonians to the U.S. Capitol for the largest ever “SA to D.C.” delegation. This record group reflected the magnitude of optimism we each feel about San Antonio’s future. The San Antonio, Hispanic, North San Antonio, South San Antonio, and West San Antonio chambers of commerce as well as the San Antonio Mobility Coalition all brought a little Texas warmth, highlighting San Antonio as a “City of Innovation.” Local business and community leaders offered their insight and experience to address a wide range of Bexar County issues, including the need to protect our Dreamers, support public schools, promote smart trade policies, and assist the many small businesses that drive our economy. In a week that also included the State of the Union, we focused on strengthening the state of our community. Despite the turmoil in Washington, I remain committed to putting our community first and eager to offer enthusiastic support as a partner on the successes we are already achieving in San Antonio. In the House Ways and Means Committee, where I now serve as chairman of the Health Subcommittee, work has begun to restore long-overlooked oversight. I have also been named to serve on both the Joint Committee on Taxation and the Budget Committee. I made a move this year to focus a little more on health and somewhat less on tax. I will put patients first, work to lower Big Pharma monopoly prices for prescription drugs, cut out-of-pocket costs, and resist attempts to destroy protection for preexisting conditions and efforts to undermine the Affordable Care Act. Health security touches all of our neighbors in Bexar County, particularly in the many pockets of poverty that my district encompasses. We can finally break new ground on health care solutions for American families. This chairmanship allows me to highlight the experiences and disparities in health care that San Antonio families face every day. We can shine a light on ways San Antonio is leading the way – from community health programs at Martinez Street Women’s Center to Texas Organizing Project’s grassroots advocacy for access to affordable health care for all San Antonians. San Antonio is putting people first by tackling issues such as the opioid crisis, for which I worked to secure federal dollars to assist with the implementation phase of Bexar County’s Opioid task force, and remains a leader in innovation with the boom in the local bioscience industry coming from UT Health San Antonio and our hospital districts. My most urgent effort is to seek relief for patients from prescription price gouging. I recently filed patient-first legislation that would address the prescription drug affordability crisis. The Medicare Negotiation and Competitive Licensing Act would authorize the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to negotiate drug prices and, if drug companies refuse to negotiate in good faith, it would enable the HHS Secretary to issue a competitive license to another company to produce the medication as a generic. Our proposal responds to the many personal stories of drug unaffordability with an American solution – negotiation and competition. I hope that President Donald Trump will follow the advice of candidate Trump to find common ground with us, reject the advice of Big Pharma executives, and deliver a real victory for the American people. In discussing my recent health legislation, I brought along a couple friends to speak to our local leaders while in Washington – House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman U.S. Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Oregon). The Congressman shared the need for real progress on infrastructure, which is a top priority for San Antonio – a real initiative to invest in our crumbling roads and public facilities. And we need to invest in our people far more than any wall. In a changing economy, we all have an opportunity – and a responsibility – to support our local workforce to meet this economy’s challenges. After inaction in the last Congress on Trump’s promise to invest $1 trillion dollars in our deteriorating infrastructure, I am eager for a bipartisan plan. It’s a great time to live and work in San Antonio. This large delegation brought energy and a strong vision to Washington, and I salute all those who advocate on behalf of San Antonio’s priorities. Let’s together innovate and build an even stronger San Antonio. Let’s continue to be creative, imaginative, persistent, and, may I say, dogged.
02.15.2019	WASHINGTON — Defiant in the wake of a stinging budget defeat, President Donald Trump on Friday declared a national emergency at the U.S.-Mexico border. The move triggered outrage from Democrats, unease among some Republicans and flew in the face of years of GOP complaints that President Barack Obama had overreached in his use of executive authority. Rep. Joaquin Castro, D-San Antonio, is leading an effort to end the national emergency declaration by invoking a provision under the National Emergencies Act that says the state of emergency can end with a joint resolution by members of Congress. Castro, chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, announced he was introducing that resolution Thursday evening. By Friday evening, more than 70 members of Congress had signed off on it. “Historically, presidents have declared national emergencies for urgent matters of national security,” Castro said in a statement. “President Trump would unconstitutionally usurp congressional authority by declaring an emergency based upon unfounded hype rather than any substantive emergency.” House Judiciary Chairman Jerry Nadler, Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-New York, and Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-San Antonio, are among of the co-signers. If the House passes the resolution, it must pass in the Republican-controlled Senate within eight days. Trump still could veto that resolution, but if two-thirds of each chamber approve the bill, they could override the veto. The president moved to secure more money for his long-promised wall by exercising a broad interpretation of his presidential powers that’s also certain to draw stiff legal challenges. In his emergency proclamation, Trump painted a dark picture of the border as “a major entry point for criminals, gang members and illicit narcotics” and one that threatens “core national security interests.” Overall, though, illegal border crossings are down from a high of 1.6 million in 2000. His declaration instantly transformed a contentious policy fight into a foundational dispute over the separation of powers enshrined in the Constitution and ensuring that the president and Democrats will continue fighting over the border wall in Congress, the courts and on the campaign trail. Trump signed the declaration to justify diverting billions of federal dollars from military construction and other purposes after Congress approved only a fraction of the money he’d demanded. The standoff over border funding had led to the longest government shutdown in history. To avoid another shutdown, Trump reluctantly signed a funding bill Friday that included just $1.4 billion of the $5.7 billion he had demanded for the wall. Trump announced the declaration in a free-wheeling, 50-minute Rose Garden news conference that included a long preamble about his administration’s accomplishments. He jousted with reporters and delivered a sing-song prediction about the fate of the order as it winds its way through the legal system before potentially ending up at the Supreme Court. “Sadly, we’ll be sued and sadly it will go through a process and happily we’ll win, I think,” Trump said. Within hours of Trump’s statement, the American Civil Liberties Union announced it would file suit challenging his emergency powers declaration. “By the president’s very own admission in the Rose Garden, there is no national emergency. He just grew impatient and frustrated with Congress, and decided to move along his promise for a border wall ‘faster,’” ACLU Executive Director Anthony Romero said. Some Democratic state attorneys general also threatened to go to court over the decision. The text of Trump’s proclamation cited an increase in families coming across the border and an inability to detain families during deportation proceedings — not drugs or violence as the president outlined in his news conference. The top two Democrats in Congress said they’d use “every remedy available” to oppose what they cast as an unlawful measure. “The president’s actions clearly violate the Congress’ exclusive power of the purse, which our Founders enshrined in the Constitution,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said in a joint statement. Trump defended his use of an emergency declaration, saying other presidents had done the same. Other presidents have used emergency powers, but not to pay for projects that Congress wouldn’t support. And Trump himself sent mixed messages as to its necessity. He wrote in the official proclamation that “because of the gravity of the current emergency situation, it is necessary for the Armed Forces to provide additional support to address the crisis.” But he seemed to tip his hand at a political motive when he said during the news conference, “I didn’t need to do this, but I’d rather do it much faster,” an admission certain to be cited during legal challenges. Republicans had opposed Trump declaring a national emergency, repeatedly warning it would set a bad precedent and divide the party when Democrats put it up for a vote. While many in the GOP on Friday fell in line behind Trump’s decision, others remain opposed. “I don’t believe a national emergency declaration is the solution,” Sen. Thom Tillis, R-N.C., said in a statement. “It wouldn’t provide enough funding to adequately secure our borders, it would likely get tied up in litigation, and most concerning is that it would create a new precedent that a left-wing president would undoubtedly utilize to implement their radical policy agenda while bypassing the authority of Congress.” Express-News Staff Writer Silvia Foster-Frau contributed to this report.
02.15.2019	President Donald Trump looks on as an Angel Mom holds up a poster of her daughter, during an event in the Rose Garden at the White House to declare a national emergency in order to build a wall along the southern border, Friday. [PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/THE ASSOCIATED PRESS]▲ Texas lawmakers from Central Texas offered mixed reviews Friday to President Donald Trump declaring a national emergency on the southern border, a move that could free up money to build a wall, his biggest and most elusive campaign promise. Here's what they said: "We are reviewing the declaration and related laws as we only recently even have seen the text. It is unfortunate that Congress didn't do its job, and it's unfortunate the president signed (or is signing) the legislation as written given its numerous concerning flaws." — U.S. Rep. Chip Roy, R-Austin "With this authoritarian power grab, Trump would divert resources from real security challenges elsewhere to his politically-contrived, non-crisis on the Rio Grande. I am a sponsor of a privileged resolution to stop him. If his routine Republican enablers refuse to join us in standing up for the Constitution, we will promptly seek judicial relief. What we clearly don't need is a multi-billion dollar waste in pursuit of his anti-immigrant hysteria." — U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin "A secure border is a key component of any national security strategy. For many years, we have seen human trafficking, drug trafficking and cartel violence pour into our country, and it is a national security risk. ... It is anticipated that President Trump's declaration of a national emergency will be challenged, and today's announcement is the start of a long road ahead, but it's important that this crisis be addressed for the well-being of Americans and those trying to come here." — U.S. Rep. John Carter, R-Round Rock "The primary job of the president of the United States is to keep our nation and our hardworking American families safe. In light of this responsibility, President Trump has the legal and constitutional authority to issue a national emergency declaration to address the security crisis along our southern border. ... I will support his actions to fulfill this responsibility. I will also continue to work with President Trump and my House colleagues to achieve border security." — U.S. Rep. Bill Flores, R-Bryan "It is the responsibility of Congress to fund border security and finish completion of the border wall authorized under the Secure Fence Act of 2006 — that is clear. ... But the reality is that Congress has given the president authority to declare a national emergency and reprogram funding under Title 10 of the U.S. Code, and this declaration is one of 58 national emergencies declared by U.S. presidents since 1979. The president is absolutely right when he says the situation on our southern border is a humanitarian and national security crisis." — U.S. Rep. Michael Cloud, R-Victoria
02.15.2019	Fox San Antonio launched a series Thursday on surprise billing when it comes to healthcare. Camilla Rambaldi looked into the problem to see what kind of help is out there and how consumers can better understand their bills and possibly lower the costs. Congress Lloyd Doggett, D-TX 35th District, filed legislation this year to end surprise billing. Doggett is pushing for more transparency when it comes to medical costs and to make sure the consumer doesn’t get caught in the middle of the provider and the insurance. “It would protect consumers so that you would never find yourself in a situation unless you consented to it , that you would pay out of network charges. That can mean tens of thousands of dollars of bills in some cases. It would mean that the dispute would be resolved between the insurer and the healthcare provider but not get the customer pay more money,” said Doggett. On January 1st, a law went into effect in Texas requiring hospitals to list procedure costs online. Fox San Antonio asked Congressman Doggett about that. “What we know already is that there is wide disparity in the cost of different types of surgery at different facilities right in the greater Bexar County area. I think the law as it is now, the information is difficult it compare. It doesn't help all that much, and we could use more disclosure so that consumers can make an informed decision,” said Doggett. Doggett went on to explain the importance of always asking questions about benefits and of costs prior to getting a procedure done. To contact Congressman Doggett’s office, click HERE.
02.14.2019	Members of Congress representing Central Texas offered mixed reactions Thursday to a border security deal to avert a government shutdown. Republicans didn’t say much, if anything, about President Donald Trump’s plan to declare a national emergency to secure more funding for barriers along the southern border. Here’s what they said: “I am pleased that notwithstanding Speaker Pelosi’s statement that physical barriers were somehow immoral, that this does authorize and fund up to 55 miles of additional fencing along the U.S.-Mexico border. I believe that border security consists of three components: physical barriers in hard to control locations, technology is important as a force multiplier, and, then, of course, the boots on the ground, the Border Patrol agents who are absolutely essential. And I’m pleased to say that this piece of legislation incorporates all three of those components of what makes up smart and sensible border security.” — U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, on the U.S. Senate floor “I am against the so-called deal, if nothing else, because it’s 1,169 pages, and I’m expected to vote on it the day I get it. No. On substance I oppose it because it will enact affirmatively harmful policy and build ... little border infrastructure, offers zero additional judges and beds at the border ... resulting in no real solution to secure American citizens or protect those migrants seeking to come here. The president should think twice about signing this bill if he wishes to use executive action — assuming that action is consistent with the National Emergencies Act — and letting Congress off the hook of doing its job.” — U.S. Chip Roy, R-Austin “This funding bill contains much more than Speaker Pelosi’s ‘one dollar’ promise for a border wall. Instead, the bill provides over $1.3 billion for 55 miles of barrier, increases the number of immigration judges, and increases funding for federal law enforcement officers to combat drug and human trafficking. I will support the bill and continue to stand with the president in favor of securing our southern border.” — U.S. Rep. John Carter, R-Round Rock “Party leaders sent us an 1,169-page spending bill this morning. They expect us to vote on it this evening. So I co-sponsored a one-week extension to keep the government funded with no strings attached while we take time to read the bill and negotiate a real compromise.” — U.S. Rep. Michael Cloud, R-Victoria “I remain a firm ‘no’ on Trump’s wall. Call it a ‘wall’ or a ‘fence,’ build it with steel, not concrete, but it is still a colossal waste of taxpayers’ money for an imaginary crisis in conflict with fundamental American values. Trump should include the entire unnecessary wall in any phony emergency decree that he orders. Congress should immediately challenge his declaration, not let him claim our blessing for 55 miles of havoc through the Rio Grande Valley. The real crisis threatening our security is his shortsighted, rudderless, fear-based mismanagement through chronic deceit.” — U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin A spokeswoman for U.S. Rep. Roger Williams, R-Austin, told the American-Statesman on Thursday afternoon that he was still reviewing the bill and did not have a comment. A spokesman for U.S. Rep. Bill Flores, R-Bryan, said his office would release a statement after the House votes on the bill. U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, and U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Austin, did not respond to requests for comment.
02.13.2019	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 13, 2019 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 “Months, Years—Hundreds of Small Graves Ago—this Congress Should Have Acted”: Floor Speech as Yemen Resolution Passes House Washington, D.C. — Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett spoke on the floor of the House urging passage of H.J.Res. 37, the Yemen War Powers Resolution, of which he is a lead sponsor. The resolution would end unconstitutional U.S. military participation in the Saudi-led coalition’s military campaign in Yemen. It just passed the House of Representatives. “Finally, this House is doing what the Constitution demands: To debate war and peace. The problem here is that President Trump has essentially subcontracted out American foreign policy in the Middle East to a murderous Saudi regime,” said Rep. Dogggett. He continued, “85,000 little children under the age of five have been starved to death or have died of disease as a result of Saudi blockades and aggression. Indifference to their suffering is dooming a generation… The days of symbolic action have passed. Months, years, hundreds of small graves ago, this Congress should have acted. Today, we can act to put a stop to this.” You can watch his full speech here, or read an excerpt below: “Unlawful, murderous air strikes [are conducted] with bombs made in America on schools, on hospitals, on weddings, on markets. And you know, all these people that speak out about the security of Israel and of America? They seem to have forgotten than these same Saudis have been giving away American-made weapons to Al-Qaeda. The Saudi leadership, which approved the killing and dismemberment of an American resident journalist, is unsurprisingly not moved by the suffering of these children. They are intent on annihilation of the Yemenis. We cannot let the slaughter continue in the name of American taxpayers. The Saudis do not represent our values, but they are using our tax dollars and our weapons. Instead of shutting down our government, President Trump needs to shut down cooperation with the regime that tortures women who speak out, who kills its enemies who dare to speak the truth, and that is waging an immoral conflict—the world's largest humanitarian catastrophe. The days of symbolic action passed. Months, years, hundreds of small graves ago, this Congress should have acted. Today we can act to put a stop to this nonsense, this misappropriation of our values in the Middle East.” In October, Congressman Doggett led a House effort urging President Trump to impose sanctions, under the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act, on Mr. Khashoggi’s murderers. As he continues to press to end U.S. involvement in the war in Yemen, he looks to Jamal Khashoggi’s warning in the Washington Post about that war: “We should not need to be reminded of the value of human life.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
02.12.2019	AUSTIN, Texas — Nearly one in every five women suffer from prolapse, a condition where pelvic muscles no longer support pelvic organs. For years, surgeons made repairs using tissue from women's bodies. But, in recent years, a surgical mesh has been used to treat prolapse. Tuesday, following thousands of complaints and years of warnings from the FDA itself, a public hearing shed light on what is growing evidence of medical device dangers. “This is affecting lives and it’s major, and no one is really listening to us,” said Barbara Melling, a patient who is suffering from complications of surgical mesh. Women from across the country gathered in Maryland to share their stories about how mesh products changed their lives. “If there are 100,000 women injured by mesh for any reason, it should not be on the market. If tomatoes are killing people, they take them off the market,” said Lana Keeton, who had a sling implanted in her. Jodie Callahan is a mother who had surgery in 2010 at the age of 45. “I am one of over 100,000 women who have been severely and permanently harmed by the devastating complications from the interior transvaginal mesh,” she said. “This changed my life and made me limit a lot of activities with my family. I went to nine different specialists all trying to help me deal with this.” Three years later, after years of pain, a surgeon removed the mesh. “During the procedure, I experienced life-threatening complications due to the extensive lengths to remove the mesh," she said. "The doctor reported the mesh had eroded into my bladder, attached to my bowels, my nerves and my muscles and the incontinence sling had twisted my urethra, so voiding [emptying her bladder] was nearly impossible. They also removed a large gelatinous cyst that was in my cervix that was engulfed in mesh." Last month, she learned she has to undergo another surgery. She said her doctor found more plastic mesh inside her body. “I am scared, frustrated and devastated that I will have to do this again,” she cried. “On behalf of Boston Scientific and myself as a physician, I want to express my deepest sympathy and my sincere empathy for those women who have been harmed by surgical mesh therapies,” said Dr. Ronald Morton Jr., a medical doctor with the urology division at Boston Scientific. Medical device makers apologized to the women on Tuesday. “Boston scientific is purposeful and committed to provide medical devices that are safe and effective and supported by clinical evidence supported by physician training and the best possible outcomes,” he said, citing studies that show the mesh devices continue to improve. The Defenders have learned the FDA warned about serious complications involving mesh implants in 2008. In 2011, the FDA mandated companies produce studies to show the safety of the devices. “In 2011, Public Citizen and I petitioned the FDA to ban and label all mesh products for vaginal repair of POP [pelvic organ prolapse] because these devices offer no clinically proven benefits in comparison with non-mesh repair of POP and have high rates of serious complications," said Dr. Michael Carome, M.D., of Public Citizen. "The FDA denied our petition in 2014. Surgical mesh for trans-vaginal POP repair is a quintessential example of the deficiencies of the FDA’s oversight of medical devices, particularly those that are permanently implanted.” The FDA will continue to look at the evidence presented to determine if more action should be taken for surgical mesh. “I truly hope the FDA is serious about addressing the research, development, training as well as adequate oversight for future medical devices,” said Callahan. U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett is sponsoring the Medical Device Safety Act as a result of our original investigation into implanted medical devices and sent us this statement: “The danger is not limited to one medical device, one manufacturer or one lawsuit. The KVUE Defenders has done a really good job reporting this and the urgent need to get some action, transparency and accountability, and empower patients and help them not to have to endure the same needless suffering. Mindful of that is what I'm doing is supporting an improved medical device registry and legislation to help patients harmed by medical devices seek damages from the device manufacturer.”
02.11.2019	Prescription drugs are for some, a matter of life and death. Many Americans are now buying pharmaceuticals from Mexico and Canada because they can't afford them in the United States. "We're having to pay probably the highest prices in the world for pharmaceuticals here," said United States Congressman, Lloyd Doggett. Retired school teacher of 30 years, Elaine Pierce, lived hand to mouth while she was raising two kids as a single mom. "I lived on less, but I was putting aside so no one would have to take care of me and I wouldn't be a burden to anybody when I retired and I would have money to travel and do things with my grand kids," Pierce said. Retiring with dignity is no longer a certainty. Pierce's out of pocket medicare costs are close to $7,000 a year. She has to take 3 different eye drops daily in addition to medication for both high blood pressure and high cholesterol. "It's just a stretch now to do the extra stuff when my medications have gone sky high," Pierce said. Doggett announced legislation ( H.R. 6505), Thursday that, if passed, would allow Medicare to negotiate drug prices. The second part of the bill is designed to incentivise pharmaceutical companies. "You know if the drug companies won't negotiate in good faith, we will license competitors," Doggett said. "We will bring in generics to provide some competition." Doggett is also working on another bill to address prescription price gouging, taking aim at a pharmaceutical company tactic known as, pay for delay. "Inevitably what the drug companies do is either buy off the competition or make very slight changes in their medication in order to prolong the period of the patent," Doggett said. Pierce, who is a long time advocate for consumers, was on the insurance board of the teachers union when she worked at the San Antonio Independent School District. She's been her own advocate over the last couple years having appealed coverage denials through medicare and reaching out to drug manufacturers directly. "The were really good about giving me coupons that would cut it drastically," Pierce said. News 4 did some comparison shopping, calling 5 local pharmacies in San Antonio to find out what they charged for 3 widely used drugs. Here are the results for a 30 day supply of Lipitor (10mg) Walmart $179.31 HEB $351.89 Costco $354.37 CVS $373.00 Walgreens $446.99 A 30 day supply of Singular (10mg) HEB$269.00 CVS $271.99 Walgreens $292.99 Walmart $1,100.00 A 30 day supply of Humulin 70/30 (10ml) Walmart$165.25 HEB$166.97 Costco$168.25 CVS$169.99 Walgreens$180.00 The price from one pharmacy to the next can vary dramatically. There is an app, GoodRX, that allows a quick pharmacy to pharmacy cost comparison. Insurance companies generally offer the deepest discounts for both generics and name brand drugs. In cases where generics are not an option, in addition to comparing pharmacy pricing, you can also call the manufacturers directly for discount coupons and pricing. *PFIZER Lipitor (Atorvastatin calcium) is the most studied statin and has been prescribed to millions of patients. Today, more than 99% of prescriptions are filled for the generic option. For those patients who prefer to receive branded Lipitor, Pfizer offers the Lipitor Savings Card, which enables eligible patients to obtain branded Lipitor for as little as $4 for each 30-day supply. More information can be found at Lipitor. *H-E-B H-E-B strives to find the lowest prescription price for our customers. This includes our low everyday price, free third party discount cards as well as manufacturer copay or coupon programs. We encourage customers to ask their local H-E-B Pharmacy Partner for more information. *WALGREENS When discussing cash price for prescriptions, it's important to note that an extremely small percentage of our patients' prescriptions are purchased at cash prices. To assist patients who don't have insurance, Walgreens offers a Prescription Savings Club card. More information on this can be found at this link here. Walgreens Prescription Savings Club offers savings on more than 8,000 brand and generic medications. Walgreens also accepts a number of other discount program cards. When choosing a pharmacy, we encourage patients to select one that offers the best value based on pricing and also the services available - such as participation in government plans, 24/7 convenience and services that can accommodate immediate prescription drug needs. It's also important for patients to use a single pharmacy so that pharmacists can monitor their medications and avoid potential drug interactions. There is no generic for Humulin. *CVS At CVS Pharmacy, we recognize that medication costs are a concern for patients. In fact, 50% of the prescriptions we fill in our stores cost patients $4 or less, and 75% cost patients $10 or less. Last year, CVS Health implemented a comprehensive approach to help patients save money on their prescription medications, including an Rx Savings Finder service in our retail pharmacies (CVS Pharmacy) through which our pharmacists can evaluate prescription savings opportunities for individual patients right at the pharmacy counter. CVS Pharmacy's Rx Savings Finder enables our pharmacists to quickly and seamlessly review a patient's prescription regimen, medication history and insurance plan information to determine the best way for them to save money on out-of-pocket costs, with the primary goal of helping the patient find the lowest cost alternative under their pharmacy benefits plan. For patients who are not paying for prescriptions with insurance, CVS Pharmacy offers access to low-cost generic drugs by participating in a number of prescription discount programs in the marketplace. We also offer our ExtraCare Pharmacy and Health Rewards program, through which patients receive $5 in ExtraBucks for every 10 prescriptions filled, earning up to $50 in ExtraBucks annually. We make every effort to ensure our retail prices for prescription drugs are competitive. Generally speaking, our retail prices for prescriptions are in line with or less expensive than those of our major retail pharmacy competitors. However, due to varying business models and operational costs, there may be greater price differences for some medications between a retail pharmacy such as CVS Pharmacy and other types of businesses that operate pharmacies.
02.07.2019	U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett filed a bill Thursday that he said would lower rising prescription drug prices by allowing federal health care officials to negotiate drug prices with pharmaceutical companies, an idea President Donald Trump backed in 2016. If a company refuses to negotiate “in good faith” at the beginning of each year, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services could issue a license to another company to produce a generic version at a lower price. “Our American solution to this American problem is quite simple,” Doggett, D-Austin, said at a Washington, D.C., news conference Thursday. “It is to negotiate and then let competition work.” Doggett touted the legislation alongside U.S. Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio, and eight other Democratic lawmakers. The bill has 110 House co-sponsors, all Democrats, including one-third of the Democratic freshman class. Brown said he would file an identical bill in the Senate. Trump supported a similar policy during the 2016 Republican presidential primary race, in contrast with other Republicans. Since then, Trump has instead proposed matching prescription drug prices to those in other countries as recently as October. During his State of the Union address Tuesday, Trump listed lowering prescription drug prices as a policy priority, but he did not go into specifics. “What we’re really doing today is just calling on President Trump to listen to candidate Trump, who talked about the way the pharmaceutical companies were basically guilty of murder, as he put it, and said we need to start bidding,” Doggett said. Doggett remained optimistic that the bills could garner GOP support in the Senate now that Democrats can force the issue in the House and make an appeal to the president, though that remains their only new leverage. The pharmaceutical industry spent more than $280 million lobbying last year, according to the nonpartisan federal campaign contribution tracker Center for Responsive Politics. “When manufacturers spend more of their profits and tax breaks from the Republican tax law on stock buybacks, on marketing, on the full-page ads that are in today and yesterday’s papers in color than they’re doing on research and development, they don’t have much claim that they need to extort these kinds of high prices in order to provide for innovation,” Doggett said. Other agencies, like the Department of Veterans Affairs, are allowed to negotiate prescription drug prices. “In 2017, Medicare Part D spent $100 billion on prescription drugs,” said Michael Weinstein, president of the Los Angeles-based AIDS Healthcare Foundation. “With that much money to spend, the government should be required to negotiate for the best price. This legislation will help lower the price of prescription drugs for everyone.” Last year, Doggett had introduced a prescription drug bill similar to the one filed Thursday. In 2018, AARP found that the average annual percent increase in brand name prescription drug costs outpaced the rate of inflation each year between 2006 and 2017. In 2015, average prescription drug costs increased by 15 percent while inflation grew by 0.1 percent. In 2018, Americans paid more than $360 billion on prescription drugs, according to Statistica. “Let’s cut prices for patients instead of patients having to cut pills to deal with the problem that they’ve got,” said Doggett, who is the chairman of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health.
02.07.2019	U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, has filed at least six motions to release President Donald Trump's tax returns. WASHINGTON – As the new Democratic majority in the U.S. House takes its first tentative steps to obtain President Donald Trump's tax returns, Texas Republican Kevin Brady has emerged as one of the administration's top congressional defenders, arguing that the move would jeopardize all Americans' right to privacy. "This is about protecting the private tax returns of every American," the Republican from The Woodlands wrote Thursday in a letter to the Democratic chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, which was holding its first hearing on presidential tax returns. "When we start making exceptions for one taxpayer, it begins the process of eroding and threatening the privacy rights of all taxpayers." Brady, the former chairman of the tax-writing committee and now its ranking Republican, registered himself "deeply concerned" and accused Democrats of "weaponizing our nation's tax code by targeting political foes." Democratic leaders in Congress have portrayed the effort as a question of transparency and accountability, arguing that since the early 1970s, most presidents have chosen to release their returns publicly to head off questions about how their financial interests might affect their decisions as president. Trump would be the only major-party candidate since 1976 not to do so, according to a Joint Committee on Taxation report released ahead of Thursday's hearing. He has said he won't release his returns while under IRS audit, though there is no legal prohibition against self-disclosure. "Overwhelmingly, the public wants to see the president's tax returns," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi told reporters Thursday. In part, the battle over the president's tax returns has become a tale of two powerful Texans on the Ways and Means Committee, one a Republican, the other a Democrat. Texas U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, one of the panel's top Democrats, has filed six motions in the past two years calling for Trump's tax returns. "This has never been a problem before," Doggett said in an interview Thursday. "But we see almost daily now some indication of the president's interest in putting personal gain over the public interest, and we need to know through these returns if that's been happening." Brady's letter, joined by Pennsylvania Republican Mike Kelly, the top Republican on an oversight subcommittee, came two days after Trump warned Democrats about "ridiculous partisan investigations" – an apparent dig at the special counsel and congressional probes of alleged Russian election interference. Democratic leaders brushed off Trump's implied threat about bottling up legislation and continued to press for the release of his tax returns, which some critics say could provide evidence of his business ties to Russia. As the battle over the president's tax returns intensifies, Trump lawyer Rudy Giuliani has made clear that the Trump will fight any request in court, something Doggett said Democrats must be prepared to do. Thursday's House hearing focused on a part of a sweeping Democratic ethics package that would require future presidential candidates to release 10 years of tax returns. But the provision is widely seen as directed toward Trump, who is running for reelection in 2020. The new chairman of the Ways and Means panel, Massachusetts Democrat Richard Neal, also has said he plans to invoke a rarely-used IRS provision that Democrats say authorizes him to request Trump's tax returns from the Treasury Department. The law, IRS code 6103, putatively grants that authority to the chairmen of the Senate Finance and House Ways and Means Committees. Democrats sought support for their position from a panel of tax, ethics and federal policy experts, some of whom urged Congress to demand Trump's tax returns immediately. The witnesses included Tax History Project Director Joseph Thorndike, University of Virginia law professor George Yin, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington Executive Director Noah Bookbinder, Tax Policy Center senior fellow Steven Rosenthal, and Ken Kies, managing director at the Federal Policy Group. Kies, who was invited at the request of the panel's Republicans, testified that even if the Treasury Department acceded to the Democrats' request for Trump's tax returns, it would be illegal to release them to the public. Meanwhile Brady and other Republican leaders in Congress have dismissed the Democratic effort as a partisan witch hunt. "Our view is that this isn't about whether the president should release his tax returns or not," Brady told reporters Wednesday. "This should be about protecting the rights of every private taxpayer.... Because if democrats or any party can abuse their power to rummage through the tax returns of the president what will stop them from abusing that power in the future frankly to target any individual American that they see as a political enemy." Doggett, an outspoken critic of the president, scoffed at the suggestion that releasing the Trump's tax returns would endanger the privacy of ordinary Americans. "The president is in a unique position as the most powerful elected official in the world," he said. "The range of the president's ability to influence public policy is immense. The public has an interest in knowing of the president's personal and business affairs." Doggett also maintained that the demand is not partisan. The same would be expected of former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, a billionaire businessman and philanthropist who has talked of running for president as a Democrat. It would apply equally to former Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz, who is mulling an independent run for president. Doggett also bristled at Brady's accusation of "weaponizing" the IRS against Trump. "Sunlight may be a weapon, but it's a weapon against corruption, bias and self-dealing, and that's what's involved here." Brady, in his letter to Neal on Thursday, said he recognized the public's right to know about potential conflicts of interest. But he said the public already is protected by existing financial disclosure requirements, FBI background checks, and annual IRS audits. "Mandating the release of tax returns without consent is lazy legislating," he wrote. "Such a half-hearted attempt masks the real reason for this hearing – playing partisan 'gotcha' politics." While Brady called it a "dangerous path," some on the Democratic Party's left flank have pushed Neal and other party leaders to move faster to request Trump's tax returns from the Treasury Department. Pelosi, however, urged caution. "It's not a question of just sending a letter," she said Thursday, "you have to do it in a very careful way."
02.07.2019	UNITED STATES CONGRESS For Immediate Release Thursday, February 7, 2019 Contact: Doggett: Kate Stotesbery, 202-225-4865 Brown: Jenny Donohue/Rachael Hartford, 202-224-3978 DOGGETT, BROWN ANNOUNCE BICAMERAL MEDICARE DRUG PRICE NEGOTIATION BILL Bill would Lower Drug Costs & Put People Over Big Pharma Profits, Give Medicare Authority to Issue Competitive Licensing to Generics WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) and U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) today announced patient-first legislation that would address the prescription drug affordability crisis. Their Medicare Negotiation and Competitive Licensing Act would authorize the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to negotiate drug prices and, if drug companies refuse to negotiate in good faith, it would enable the Secretary to issue a competitive license to another company to produce the medication as a generic. Congressman Doggett is the lead sponsor in the House of Representatives, joined by Representatives Peter Welch (D-VT) and Elijah Cummings (D-MD), along with more than one hundred other Democratic lawmakers. Senator Brown is the lead sponsor of the bill in the Senate; the original cosponsors of the bill in the Senate are Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and Tammy Baldwin (D-WI). Congressman Doggett said, “Let’s cut prices so that patients don’t have to cut pills in half. Our proposal responds to an American problem, rampant prescription price gouging, with an American solution—negotiation and competition. We repeal and replace the Republican-imposed law prohibiting negotiation and empower the use of generic competition to lower prices.” He continued, “While there is no wonder drug to eliminate price gouging, the cure begins by making patients’ health and security nonnegotiable. We call on President Trump to follow the advice of Candidate Trump; let’s start saving billions through ‘bidding.’” “The purpose of medicine is to help people, not to line the pockets of Big Pharma executives. Our bill would call Big Pharma’s bluff and demand prescription drug companies offer fair prices, or be boxed out,” said Brown, who also introduced the Stop Price Gouging Act today. That bill would penalize pharmaceutical companies that engage in price gouging, leading to price spikes for patients who rely on medication to treat diseases ranging from cancer to addiction. American patients are burdened by high drug prices, as these same patients’ tax dollars go into protecting government-approved, government-funded monopolies. The top healthcare concern for Americans is skyrocketing prescription drug prices, and the number one measure that Americans support to rein in those costs is Medicare negotiation. It is past time for a patient-first plan to lower them. “Medicare is one of the largest drug purchasers in the country. It should not be restricted from negotiating the best deal with drug manufacturers,” Klobuchar said. “Americans deserve better. I have fought for years to unleash the bargaining power of seniors on Medicare and this bill offers another important step towards lowering the skyrocketing cost of prescription drugs.” “We have a broken system in Washington that prohibits the federal government from negotiating lower prescription drug prices for older Wisconsinites,” said Senator Baldwin. “I have long championed efforts to allow the government to negotiate directly with pharmaceutical corporations to get better prices on lifesaving medicines instead of increasing drug company profits. President Trump campaigned in 2016 on lowering the cost of prescription drugs, including by allowing Medicare to negotiate drug prices. It’s time for the President to work with Congress to pass this reform and help lower out-of-pocket costs for seniors.” Big pharmaceutical companies often use scare tactics in order to maintain the highest profits of any industry. Doggett and Brown said this industry practice puts profits over people. The Doggett-Brown bill stipulates that if pharmaceutical companies refuse to negotiate a reasonable price on a given medication, the Secretary of HHS could issue this competitive license to another company that will offer the drug at a price that’s fair to Medicare beneficiaries and taxpayers. In 2018, Americans spent an all-time high of $360 billion on prescription drugs. According to a 2016 Consumer Reports survey, 30 percent of Americans who experienced an increase in the price of one or more of their medications left a prescription unfilled because it was too expensive; 15 percent said they cut pills in half to make them last longer. ###
02.05.2019	WASHINGTON - President Donald Trump Tuesday night delivered his second State of the Union address, this time in front of a divided Congress. As expected, the president began by calling for unity, and along the way he touched on several topics that directly affect Texans. “Millions of our fellow citizens are watching us now, gathered in the great chamber, hoping that we will govern not as two parties but as one nation,” Trump said to applause. He started by promising that this year American astronauts will soon go back to space on American rockets, something that could bode well for Houston-based NASA. Trump quickly moved on to touting his economic successes, citing an “unprecedented economic boom – a boom that has rarely been seen before.” He claimed his administration has helped to create 5.3 million new jobs, 600,000 of which are in the manufacturing sector. He additionally stated 5 million Americans have been lifted off food stamps and that unemployment has “reached the lowest rate in half a century.” Trump, taking a jab at the ongoing Special Counsel investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election, stated: “If there is going to be peace and legislation, there cannot be war and investigation. It just doesn’t work that way.” The address came on the heels of the longest government shutdown in American history, and without surprise Trump focused a great deal on illegal immigration and again made his case for a wall along the southern border. “This is a moral issue. The lawless state of our southern border is a big threat to the safety, security, and financial well-being of all Americans,” Trump said. “My administration has sent to the Congress a commonsense proposal to end the crisis on our southern border,” Trump continued. “It includes humanitarian assistance, more law enforcement, drug detection at our ports, closing loopholes that enable child smuggling, and plans for a new physical barrier, or wall, to secure the vast areas between our ports of entry.” Much of that wall, if built, would divide Texas and Mexico. “This is a smart, strategic, see-through steel barrier – not just a simple concrete wall,” Trump said. In fact, Trump cited El Paso, Texas, as a city where a physical barrier has reduced crime. “The border city of El Paso, Texas, used to have extremely high rates of violent crime – one of the highest in the country, and considered one of our nation’s most dangerous cities. Now, with a power barrier in place, El Paso is one of our safest cities,” Trump said. In response to Trumps statements about immigration, Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas, issued the following statement: “The centerpiece of this speech was fear about a phony border crisis. There’s no path forward to avoid more chaos. It is less important how Trump reads a teleprompter one night of the year than the other 364 days of Twitter-fueled mayhem that threaten our union. If he were serious about solutions, like lowering prescription drug prices and rebuilding our infrastructure, we’d have more than this halftime show of empty promises – no substitute for real action.” In addition to trade policy and infrastructure, Trump briefly discussed health care and skyrocketing prescription drug prices. “It is unacceptable that Americans pay vastly more than people in other counties for the exact same drugs, often made in the exact same place. This is wrong, unfair, and together we can stop it,” he said. Similar to what Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton is seeking, Trump said he is pursuing a late-term abortion ban. “To defend the dignity of every person, I am asking the Congress to pass legislation to prohibit the late-term abortion of children who can feel pain in the mother’s womb,” he said. The Democratic response to the State of the Union was provided by Georgia House Minority Leader Stacy Abrams. Among other topics, Abrams discussed the plight of furloughed federal workers during the shutdown. “The shutdown was a stunt engineered by the President of the United States, one that defied every tenant of fairness and abandoned not just our people but our values,” she said. Abrams also touched on criminal justice reform and economic disparity. “So, when we had to negotiate criminal justice reform or transportation or foster care improvements, the leaders of our state didn’t shut down – we came together, and we kept our word,” she said. “In Georgia and around the country, people are striving for a middle class where a salary truly equals economic security. But instead, families’ hopes are being crushed by Republican leadership that ignore real life or just doesn’t understand it,” Abrams continued. Abrams strongly rebuked Trump's plans for a wall along the southern border. "America is made stronger by the presence of immigrants, not walls," she said.
02.05.2019	WASHINGTON — The State of the Union Address is usually the president’s moment to make his case with soaring words. But newly empowered Democrats on Tuesday delivered their own pointed message to President Trump and the nation: We’re back and we won’t be pushed around. From the party’s restored “Madam Speaker” presiding over the proceedings to the sea of white worn by the scores of Democratic women crowding the party’s side of the chamber, the resurrection of the Democrats as a force in Congress was on full display. At his first speech before a divided Congress, Mr. Trump himself recognized their ascension with his plea for Democrats not to pursue investigations of his administration. There was zero chance of them complying with that request. “We are not here to play,” Representative Mary Gay Scanlon, a freshman Democrat from Pennsylvania, said as she joined other Democratic women earlier Tuesday to celebrate their growing clout. “We are here to be serious.” Their invited guests — undocumented immigrants, sexual assault and gun violence victims, transgender Americans, federal employees who suffered in the shutdown — served as the personification of rebukes to the president and his policies. Also scattered through Mr. Trump’s audience on the House floor were multiple eager Democratic presidential aspirants whose goal is take Mr. Trump’s job away from him in two years. The event had a different vibe from previous presidential visits to the Capitol for the annual ritual. That was not unexpected since plans for the speech had already been upended once by Speaker Nancy Pelosi — who returned to her old job in January — because of the record-long shutdown of the government caused by the conflict between Democrats and the president over his demand for a border wall, which Democrats consider unworkable and wasteful. The fight over wall funding persists. But the gulf between the Democrats and Mr. Trump goes much deeper than the border dispute. The disdain Democrats hold for this president was palpable in the chamber as they looked sternly on in mostly silent disapproval. Across the aisle, Republicans were left to provide the enthusiastic applause on which Mr. Trump thrives. The president’s call for compromise and comity struck many as particularly hollow after two years of angry tweets, recriminations and personal attacks that continued almost up until the speech. Democrats just weren’t buying it. “He is so disingenuous that when he starts talking about unity it is almost laughable,” said Representative Jim McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts. “It’s hard to listen to a man with such a demonstrated inability to tell the truth — or even keep his word with members of either party — try to sell us on the idea that he’s now ready for bipartisanship and unity, that he’s poised to bring us together,” said Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island. Mr. Whitehouse and other Democrats did commend the president for the military and law enforcement personnel he brought to Capitol Hill for recognition, but said there was a big difference between them and the president. “After two years of the president’s empty words, the American people deserve real results,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi said. “They rose to the occasion in their own time,” said Senator Amy Klobuchar, the Minnesota Democrat who could soon be joining the ranks of Democrats seeking the presidency. “He’s not doing a thing.” Representative Lloyd Doggett, a veteran Democratic lawmaker from Texas, spoke for many of his colleagues when he called it “totally outrageous” for the president to use his nationally televised speech to try to undermine the special counsel’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election and multiple inquiries that Democrats are now beginning into the Trump administration. The president essentially offered the Democrats a choice between reaching legislative deals or pursuing “ridiculous partisan investigations,” suggesting the country could not have both. To Democrats, if that choice exists, it is an easy one given that most don’t agree with the president on his legislative ideas. Many of them consider restoring congressional oversight — after two years of what Mr. Doggett termed Republican “overlook” — their prime responsibility after winning back the House in November. Perhaps the best illustration of Democratic sentiment toward the president was in how willing most of them were to sit during the speech and not yield to the impulse to join Republicans in their frequent applause of the president. In the past, lawmakers were uneasy about skipping the ovations for fear of being caught on camera not applauding some patriotic or uplifting moment and seeming disrespectful or churlish. But Democrats on Tuesday had no qualms at all about failing to applaud Donald Trump. They avoided any outbursts or walkouts that could have presented a bad image, but their silence as Republicans clapped repeatedly spoke volumes. The one big Democratic applause line of the night came at Republican expense. As the president was extolling the economy and the new jobs it had created for women in particular, Democratic applause became a crescendo as they realized that some of those new jobs were in the House of Representatives, where Democratic women had taken the place of ousted Republicans. They cheered and cheered. Mr. Trump then urged them to remain standing as he noted “we have more women serving in the Congress than ever before.” He was right, but the increased numbers were on the Democratic side, where women were outfitted in white in tribute to the suffragists of a century ago; House Republicans saw a decline in their women membership in the election. Unified Democrats are feeling confident in their approach after Mr. Trump relented in the shutdown fight and agreed to reopen the government without winning the wall funding. Despite his determined push Tuesday for the wall money, Democrats are very unlikely to give him what he wants in the ongoing negotiations to keep the government open past Feb. 15, though leaders of the talks say a chance for some compromise still exists. Democrats were careful not to completely dismiss the president’s call for bipartisanship, despite their reservations, though they sincerely doubted his sincerity. “President Trump must now take concrete steps to work with Democrats to strengthen the health and economic security of families across America,” Ms. Pelosi said. “After two years of the president’s empty words, the American people deserve real results.” In his speech, Mr. Trump lauded his accomplishments and said, “We are just getting started.” For Democrats, the Trump era cannot end soon enough.
02.05.2019	Surrounded by patients who told horror stories of being stuck with hefty bills, President Trump recently waded into a widespread health care problem for which almost all people — even those with insurance — are at risk: surprise medical billing. Trump's declaration that taming unexpected bills would be a top priority for his administration echoed through the halls of Congress, where a handful of Republican and Democratic lawmakers had already been studying the problem. The sudden presidential interest has lawmakers on both sides of the aisle expressing optimism about attacking a problem that has affected 57 percent of American adults, according to a University of Chicago survey conducted in August 2018. Sen. Lamar Alexander, the Tennessee Republican who chairs the influential Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, recently told reporters that he expects to see surprise-billing legislation "in the next several months." Alexander is encouraged by the movement, said a committee spokesman — giving a particular nod to the efforts of Sen. Bill Cassidy, R-La. "The chairman looks forward to reviewing their work and hopes it leads to a bipartisan consensus on how to address the issue," the spokesman added. "Indications in Congress have always been that this would be something they could do on a bipartisan basis," said Paul Ginsburg, a health economist at the Brookings Institution. Attention to surprise billing, which involves charging patients for care that is more expensive than expected or not covered by their insurance, has grown following an ongoing Kaiser Health News-NPR Bill of the Month project. Still, the details of a possible solution remain up in the air. The Trump administration hasn't laid out precisely how it would take on surprise bills. But key lawmakers, including Alexander and Cassidy, have met with administration officials to discuss the problem of how to reduce health care costs. Trump administration officials have made it clear that they are looking at surprise billing within this context. With an eye toward drafting legislation, these two senators and several others have been consulting with billing experts, as well as state and local officials, about the biggest challenges and most promising approaches being used around the country. And though Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., has yet to address the issue, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., said it would be a priority. "Ending surprise billing is an important part of Democrats' ongoing effort to lower out-of-pocket health costs, and we'll be working on it in the coming Congress," said Henry Connelly, a Pelosi spokesman. Previously introduced bills would impose new notification requirements, as well as limitations on what doctors and hospitals might charge patients. They would regulate bills for either emergency care at an out-of-network facility or nonemergency care when the facility is in network but the doctor isn't. A draft bill pushed by Cassidy, a gastroenterologist and the leader of a small, bipartisan group of senators studying the issue, would cap what patients pay and prohibit balance billing — when a patient is expected to make up the difference between what the provider charged and what the insurer paid. Instead of arbitration, the state would set the amount a health plan must pay. In the absence of a local policy, health plans would default to a federal formula outlined in the bill. (This is similar to laws passed in California and Connecticut.) A bill from Sen. Maggie Hassan, D-N.H., would tackle the issue by preventing a hospital, physician group or other medical provider from charging patients more for an emergency procedure than they would have expected to pay for in-network care. It would then establish an arbitration process to determine what the patient's health plan should pay. (This is similar to laws passed in New York and New Jersey.) A bill from Texas Democrat Lloyd Doggett, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee's Health Subcommittee, introduced during the last Congress with Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio, would require hospitals to notify patients whether the hospitals — and the doctors and other providers that patients would see there — are in network. Hospitals would also have to tell patients how much they could expect to pay out of pocket. Without at least 24 hours' notice and the patient's consent — or if the patient was receiving same-day, emergency treatment — the hospital would be able to charge the patient no more than an in-network provider would. To draw attention to the issue, Hassan intends to bring to this week's State of the Union address a guest who was billed more than $1,600 for a trip to an in-network emergency room. The patient learned after the fact that the doctor she briefly saw there was out of network. "There does seem to be across-the-board understanding that what's happening to patients right now isn't right or fair," Hassan said. Other members of Congress, including Sen. Amy Klobuchar, D-Minn., and Sen. Tammy Baldwin, D-Wis., are expected to bring guests with painful, personal stories regarding the high cost of prescription drugs. For its part, the administration says its commitment to addressing surprise medical bills is firm. "President Trump has identified surprise medical bills as a serious concern of the administration. Protecting patients from these outrageous and unexpected bills and charges is a top priority for Secretary [Alex] Azar," said Caitlin Oakley, a Department of Health and Human Services spokeswoman. Hassan said she hasn't heard from the White House. But as Congress shifts its focus away from the partial government shutdown, she predicted, surprise billing could emerge as a legislative priority. She said that she and Cassidy have coordinated on the issue. Both Hassan's and Cassidy's bills "would go a long way toward protecting patients," suggested Zack Cooper, a Yale University health economist who researches surprise billing. Hassan's legislation, he said, has the additional benefit of likely bringing down health care costs. "There are a lot of issues that can't be fixed or at least can't be fixed easily. This is an issue that causes immense pain and is quite visceral and can be fixed," Cooper said. And federal legislation is likely necessary, experts say. Some states have passed laws meant to curb surprise billing and protect patients from the costs — but those laws don't apply to self-insured large employers, which fall under federal jurisdiction and affect more than 60 percent of people who get insurance through work. The presidential bully pulpit could be hugely influential — in particular, Ginsburg suggested, by "leaning on Congress" to bring legislation to Trump's desk. And new legislation probably is the most effective vehicle. It's unclear what kind of executive action HHS could take without Congress. "Some creative lawyers could come up with creative interpretations [of existing laws] and lead to smart policy," said Barak Richman, a Duke University law school professor who focuses on health policy. But reinterpreting federal law would almost certainly invite legal challenges, he added. Already, competing industry groups are lobbying to put their stamp on any federal policy. The emergency physicians trade group has backed an approach like Hassan's, while the insurance lobby is calling for a Cassidy-style bill. When asked about the industry's response, Hassan said she has gotten "a variety of feedback — as you would expect." Kaiser Health News is a nonprofit news service covering health issues. It is an editorially independent program of the Kaiser Family Foundation that isn't affiliated with Kaiser Permanente.
02.05.2019	Members of Congress who represent districts in Central Texas reacted Tuesday night to President Donald Trump’s second State of the Union address. Here’s what they said: “I thought it was very strong speech. The president started off with just laying out the incredible successes we’ve seen in the past two years: the economic successes, the lowest unemployment in half a century, the lowest African-American, Hispanic unemployment ever recorded, the lowest Asian-American unemployment ever recorded, the lowest unemployment for people with disabilities. I mean, it’s a staggering record of results. He laid out the record on national security, rebuilding our military, defeating our enemies, defeating ISIS, and that is a testament to policies that work. But I think tonight, we also saw just how extreme, just how out of touch the modern Democratic Party has become.” — U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, to Fox News host Sean Hannity “Tonight, President Donald J. Trump delivered a strong message that reminded us of how far this nation has come under his administration. We’ve passed historical, pro-growth policies that have resulted in a thriving economy that is benefiting all Americans. Just recently, the January jobs report revealed that the economy added 304,000 jobs last month, for a total of over 4 million employment opportunities created under the president’s leadership. Unemployment levels are also at a historic low. Together, our pro-American agenda is making a difference in everyday-people’s lives. — U.S. Rep. Roger Williams, R-Austin “The centerpiece of this speech was fear about a phony border crisis. There’s no path forward to avoid more chaos. And it’s less important how Trump reads a teleprompter one night of the year than the other 364 days of Twitter-fueled mayhem that threaten our union. If he were serious about solutions, like lowering prescription drug prices and rebuilding our infrastructure, we’d have more than this halftime show of empty promises — no substitute for real action.” — U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin “Over the last two years, historic tax reform and regulatory relief have delivered a thriving economy and increased opportunities to empower hardworking American families to flourish. This evening, President Trump put forth his priorities to continue to deliver a stronger, more secure and more prosperous America. A prosperous and safe America requires improved border security. We also need to strive to reform our dysfunctional immigration laws, develop a solution for our Dreamer population, improve our nation’s infrastructure, strengthen our national security and promote free and fair trade.” — U.S. Rep. Bill Flores, R-Bryan “Tonight, President Trump offered a unifying and uplifting message on the state of our union: our nation is strong, and the future is bright. Over the last two years, we have made great strides on the issues that matter most to Americans, like improving veteran care, lowering prescription drug prices, and creating jobs. The possibilities are endless on what we can achieve as we move forward. We now have an opportunity to continue our success. If both parties can find common ground, we can achieve an even more secure and prosperous America.” — U.S. Rep. John Carter, R-Round Rock “It is clear the time is now to come together and build a better America. That means resolving our politically charged disputes by finding pragmatic policy answers. Especially at our southern border, where we desperately need to end the ongoing humanitarian and security crisis. I have long advocated for a multi-layered defense system that consists of physical infrastructure and better technology — especially at our ports of entry — in conjunction with more boots on the ground and provisions to close legal loopholes in our broken immigration system. Our continued inaction only strengthens the already dangerous threats we face. — U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Austin
02.05.2019	AUSTIN, Texas — A Texas Congressman is pushing for change following a KVUE Defenders investigation into implanted medical devices. “We need legislation and we need to demand accountability,” said Texas Congressman Lloyd Doggett. Congressman Doggett watched the KVUE Defenders investigation and said he will sponsor legislation to address the lack of FDA regulations for medical devices. Doggett said hearing Frances Scott’s experience shed a light on this issue and made him do more research on the topic. “The patient ought not to be the guinea pig here and that seems to be what has happened,” he said. “There needs to be better testing and a thorough registry so that physicians and patients can find out specifically what risk they are assuming when they get an implant.” Scott had a double hip replacement at the age of 39, a metal-on-metal hip that she and thousands of others say poisoned them. “I never would have guessed that this could happen,” said Scott. No medical device registry The KVUE Defenders discovered that unlike pharmaceutical drugs, most medical devices are not tested in humans. And finding information about the dangers is nearly impossible because there is no medical device registry. Sharing her hip replacement surgery experience has not been easy for this wife and mother of three, but it's already making a difference. “I think we need legislation to mandate a registry,” said Congressman Doggett. “During last year alone, there were over 27,000 reports of injuries from these hip implants and 111 deaths attributed to them. This is a serious issue the FDA needs to look at with more effectiveness than it has in the past. As a result of your KVUE investigation, I plan to up that in my priority because I can see how many folks are being harmed by what the FDA is not doing.” Medical devices do not undergo the same kind of testing as pharmaceuticals. As chairman of the Health Subcommittee on the House Ways & Means Committee, Doggett plans to sponsor legislation to demand more accountability from the FDA and help victims seek relief. “We rely on the civil judgment system to provide relief and that has some good effect, but we need prevention," he said. "We need a system in place that provides more information to everyone involved before these devices are put out there and have someone who follows up to see how they are working in the field, and that's not happening.” Patients describe lasting effects Last year, Scott found a doctor to remove her metal-on-metal hips, but she still suffers from soft tissue damage. It makes it difficult to walk, bend and she suffered a hip dislocation this past summer. “That’s the other thing people don’t realize," she said. "The bad hip, it destroys your soft tissue, so even when you get a new good hip, you don’t have the muscles to hold the ball in the socket. So you start dislocating all the time. The benign tumors that develop around your hip are not cancer, but they destroy the tissue.” But despite it all, Scott remains hopeful. “The least I can do for all of these other people is to say this is real, this happened," she said. "The laws are such that it can happen again and try to get it changed.”
02.01.2019	Congressional Democrats exploring ways to obtain President Donald Trump’s tax returns may target the adequacy of the Internal Revenue Service audit that Trump often cites as his reason for not making the returns public, according to sources familiar with the matter. Such a strategy, focused more on the IRS than on Trump, could help Democrats craft an iron-clad legal argument for what would likely follow from such a request - an unprecedented court battle over the tax records of a sitting president. Targeting the audit would put the request for the returns squarely within the oversight authority of the House of Representatives’ tax committee, which oversees the IRS, and deflect Republican accusations of a fishing expedition by Democrats unfairly targeting the president, the sources said. House tax committee Chairman Richard Neal, who has vowed to request Trump’s returns, said this week that the long-standing audit claim could be the basis on which the committee ultimately decides whether to go to court to obtain the returns. The returns are expected to become an issue soon. A subcommittee of Neal’s panel on Thursday set a hearing for Feb. 7 on “presidential and vice-presidential tax returns.” A spokeswoman said the hearing would cover “H.R. 1,” a bill that would require presidential candidates to release their tax records for elections. Another strategy for House Democrats might be to probe whether Trump profited from the Republican tax overhaul that he signed into law in 2017, or how his income could be affected by amendments to the tax code likely to come before the committee in months ahead. No decisions have been made, and sources with knowledge of the discussions could not say how much weight House officials working on the issue might give to any proposal. The deliberations reflect the caution Democrats are taking in launching investigations of Trump, his businesses and his presidency, now that they have majority control of the House. “The president has repeatedly said on the campaign trail and then after becoming president, he intended to do this, to release them, except that he was under audit,” said Neal, the only House member authorized by law to request Trump’s returns from Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. “So that’s the basis we proceed on,” Neal told reporters on Tuesday. “If we can’t have a voluntary submission, then we use the legal apparatus that’s available to us.” A Democratic spokesman for the committee declined to comment. A spokeswoman for the Treasury, which supervises the Internal Revenue Service, said Mnuchin will review the legality of any request for Trump’s returns with the department’s legal counsel. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment. ‘SHALL FURNISH’ As the Republican presidential nominee in 2016, Trump broke with decades of precedent by refusing to release his returns, saying they were being audited by the IRS. Many tax experts have replied that an IRS audit does not preclude their release. As president, Trump has retained ownership of extensive hotel interests and other business ventures. For this reason, House Democrats say his returns would be a linchpin for oversight investigations of potential ties between the president and Russia and other conflicts of interest. Federal law gives the chairmen of the House tax panel, the Senate Finance Committee and the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, the authority to request any return and says that the Treasury secretary “shall furnish” it. Trump and Mnuchin are widely expected to fight any such action. The law has been used to obtain tax records, which are normally held in strict secrecy by the IRS. But in the interests of transparency, modern presidents have routinely disclosed their returns to the public voluntarily. Progressive Democrats and outside groups have ramped up pressure on Neal to act swiftly to obtain Trump’s returns and eventually release them to the public. “The law is very clear that we’re entitled to get those returns,” Representative Lloyd Doggett told CNN on Thursday. “If the Treasury secretary... refuses to do it, then we will have to take some court action,” said Doggett, a senior Democratic member of Neal’s Ways and Means Committee. ‘BAD PRECEDENT’ Experts say an approach without careful justification could leave Democrats vulnerable to Republican claims of overreach. “It sets a very, very bad precedent. If they can demand that the public see the president’s tax returns, what’s going to keep them from demanding to see anyone’s tax returns,” said Representative Kenny Marchant, a Republican on Neal’s panel. The legal strategy of focusing on IRS audits of Trump is only one option at Neal’s disposal. “There’s a variety of legitimate reasons for why Ways and Means would seek the president’s tax returns,” said Steve Rosenthal, a senior fellow at the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center think tank.
01.27.2019	The U.S. Treasury Department lifted sanctions on three firms tied to Russian tycoon Oleg Deripaska, including United Co. Rusal, a move that will provide relief to the global aluminum market. The metal fell in London. Deripaska, an ally of Russian leader Vladimir Putin, will remain under U.S. sanctions, and his property will remain blocked. But the Treasury Department is removing restrictions on Rusal, En+ Group Plc and EuroSibEnergo JSC. “The companies have also agreed to unprecedented transparency for Treasury into their operations by undertaking extensive, ongoing auditing, certification, and reporting requirements,” the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control said in a release. “All sanctions on Deripaska continue in force.” In a separate statement, En+ announced the addition of seven independent directors to its board, as well as a securities swap with Ivan Glasenberg’s Glencore Plc. Under the deal, the London-listed commodity trader will get global depositary receipts representing 10.55 percent of En+’s enlarged share capital in exchange for its existing 8.75 percent stake in Rusal. Rusal said that Chairman Jean-Pierre Thomas had resigned as a director after an “imperative request” from OFAC as a condition for lifting the sanctions. He became chairman in December, replacing Matthias Warnig, a former East German Stasi agent who has known President Putin since at least 1991. Thomas’s appointment drew criticism from American media and some lawmakers during debates in Congress in January because of his calls for investment in the Crimean peninsula, which Russia annexed from Ukraine in 2014, leading to the first round of sanctions. His departure was effective from Jan. 26. Rusal’s shares rose as much as 9.7 percent in Hong Kong on Monday, gaining for an eighth straight day. At En+, new independent directors include Christopher Burnham, the chairman of Cambridge Global Capital LLC, who was a member of Donald Trump’s transition team at the State Department. Congressional Democrats have tried to block Treasury’s action, citing concerns about the Trump administration’s motives at a time when Special Counsel Robert Mueller is continuing his investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election and possible connections to the Trump campaign. “This represents just one more step in undermining the sanctions law, which President Trump has obstructed at every opportunity, while Russian aggression remains unabated,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat. Aluminum Market Sanctions relief for Rusal, the world’s second-largest aluminum producer, will remove a source of uncertainty from the market. Aluminum surged in April when Treasury announced the financial restrictions, but tumbled in recent months on speculation that the sanctions would be lifted. The price fell on Monday, losing as much as 1.4 percent on the London Metal Exchange. Deripaska’s agreement with Treasury, negotiated over eight months, includes cutting his direct and indirect share ownership below 50 percent in each company, overhauling the boards of En+ and Rusal, and providing extensive disclosures, the department said in December when announcing its plans to remove the sanctions. The Treasury and the company agreed that D.J. Baker, David Crane, Arthur Dodge and Ogier Global Nominee (Jersey) Ltd. will be independent trustees who will exercise the voting rights attached to some of Deripaska’s shares. Rusal is among the largest companies the U.S. has ever put on its sanctions designation list. The value of the aluminum producer declined by more than half from $9.2 billion more than nine months ago.
01.25.2019	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 25, 2019 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Relief, Retreat from Self-Made Crisis: Congressman Doggett on Trump ending Trump Shutdown Washington, D.C. — Congressman Lloyd Doggett released the following statement in reaction to President Trump’s announcement that he would end the shutdown he insisted on and would agree to a short-term funding bill without wall funding: “After 35 days of anguish, federal workers and all whom they serve, finally get some overdue relief. Now, we need President Trump’s Republican enablers to help us prevent Valentine’s Day heartbreak in 21 days when Trump threatens another shutdown. While Trump belatedly relented on his self-created crisis, he has not yet renounced his tactic of using federal employees and their families’ suffering as negotiating leverage. The biggest continuing crisis this country faces is the one Trump can see in the mirror.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
01.25.2019	AUSTIN, Texas (FOX 7 Austin) - President Trump has promised to ensure back pay is given to federal workers. But, many local organizations will continue to meet basic needs for workers, until that promise is kept. "Relief is not what I feel, ease on some levels that the immediate crisis is over but that's coupled with just as strong as a determination to make sure it doesn't happen again." Reaction, hours after learning President Trump has ended the partial government shutdown, after 35 days. "I'm mad I'm really mad. We were out there at our demonstration today and the notion that these folks who do such critical work for our country that we're actually setting up food banks for those that are working, something is wrong with that picture." Rick Levy is the President for the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations. AFL CIO for short. He says the road to recovery for hundreds of thousands of families in Texas is far from over. "Thankfully this means they can go back to work and get paid. Which is a revolutionary concept you should be paid for your work. Hopefully they get the back pay they are due. Not just the federal workers but the contractors who have been affected by this shutdown. They get their back pay and for those that have had to take out loans they don't get interest for those that get mortgage payments they don't make that up for them. It will continue to be an issue for federal workers." Thoughts echoed by US Representative Lloyd Doggett. "I had so many people call saying landlords who wouldn't cooperate or how they're going to put food on the table. Or pay an insurance premium to process their checks as soon as possible. And for them to begin planning for a future that does not guarantee checks will be there come February,” Doggett says. Friday morning, dozens of government workers, alongside Levy rallied outside of Senator John Cornyn's office with a message for him, and leaders in Washington, hours before the president announced the shutdown was ending. “It's not easy but we are here to do our job, to keep American people safe,” says Richard Odele. Odele has picked up side gigs just to make ends meet. “It's depressing. I’m getting help from my mom and dad,” he adds. So the most pressing question is when will the federal workers finally get paid? Doggett says, “My guess is it will take several days because probably some people that will need to process the payments are among those who were furloughed. And when they're back on the job Monday I'm sure they'll make this a top priority because they need the money the Trump shutdown has denied them." In the meantime, AFL CIO says they've been collecting boxes and boxes of food still available for federal workers to pick up, doing whatever they can to support them. They say to call their office or visit their website if you need help at 512-477-6195.
01.21.2019	Tamea Hill last took part in San Antonio’s Martin Luther King Jr. march when she was 3 years old. Now 12, she marched on Monday with her 8-year-old sister Tamesha and her mom Tameka. “I wanted to come because Martin Luther King was a good leader,” she said. “He made black and white come together. He changed a lot. If he never made his speech … we would still be fighting, and I wouldn’t have the friends I have now.” Thousands of people filled the streets of San Antonio's historically black East Side on Monday, Martin Luther King Jr. Day. They walked from the Martin Luther King Jr. Academy to Pittman-Sullivan Park, holding signs and chatting with their friends and family. Texas officials such as Democratic U.S. Reps. Joaquín Castro and Lloyd Doggett, Mayor Ron Nirenberg, Bexar County Sheriff Javier Salazar, San Antonio Police Chief William McManus, U.S. Marshal Susan Pamerleau, and Julián Castro, former San Antonio mayor and recently announced candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination, led the way. U.S. Rep. Will Hurd (R-Texas) said his father used to bring him to the march as a child, and he’s grown to appreciate the significance of San Antonio’s march as he’s matured. “This day was put in context for me the first day I was in Congress,” Hurd said. “I’m on the floor of the Capitol, and I see civil rights leader John Lewis, and I introduce myself. I say, ‘Congressman Lewis, I’m Will Hurd from the San Antonio district.’ And he says, ‘Did you know you have the largest march in the country?’” State Sen. José Menéndez (D-San Antonio) told the crowd at Pittman-Sullivan Park to seize the momentum from Monday’s march and keep it going. “Let us not stop. Let us continue to pull each other up,” he said. “Our morals define us. Our character must drive us to action. Today marks another milestone in the long march to freedom, but don’t make this the only day — make this the first day of the rest of the year.” Keynote speaker Shaun King, Black Lives Matter activist and columnist with The Appeal and The Intercept, outlined four requirements he said are necessary to effect lasting social change: energized people, organized people, a fully developed plan, and money to support that change. “San Antonio, I believe in you, in your potential to change this city,” King said. “You’re already doing it. I hope what you did in this past election – that you don’t see it and get complacent, but that you see it and get hungry and say if we can do that, we can do it many more times.” King also spoke to Martin Luther King Jr.'s character – not the simplified, "cartoonish" figure to which he is often reduced, he said. In the often-quoted "I Have A Dream" speech, the civil rights leader condemned police brutality and criticized the United States for defaulting on its promise of unalienable rights to people of color, King said. "Dr. King was a revolutionary, but sometimes the way we present him dumbs down the full content of his words," King said. Some speakers took the march as an opportunity to criticize President Donald Trump. Doggett highlighted the federal government shutdown and criticized Trump for not ending it. He joked that locals were still looking for the wall in San Antonio, referencing Trump's comment a few days earlier that "... walls work ... You look at different places they put up a wall, no problem. You look at San Antonio ... They go from one of the most unsafe cities in the country to one of the safest cities, immediately." “Today, so many of our neighbors – 800,000 American families – are not receiving a paycheck because of the government shutdown. A shutdown was needed, but don’t shut down the people who want to work as public servants," Doggett said to applause. "Mr. President, shut down the hate, shut down the bigotry. Show us a little respect.” Throughout the march, people lined the sidewalks and cheered on marchers. Neighbors held signs with King quotes and advertised barbecue plates, turkey legs, sausage wraps, and baked goods. Toward the end of the route, a handful of protesters holding signs recruiting for the NRA, condemning abortion, and advocating for a border wall were largely ignored. Outside Trinity Missionary Baptist Church, Pastor Ronnie Thomas Sr. waved from a podium while gospel music blared from speakers. He shouted encouraging words at people as they walked by: “God bless you, CPS Energy. Keep the faith, keep the dream. More importantly, keep the lights on! ... Thank you, Girl and Boy Scouts, God bless you. Amen. God bless you marchers. I pray that God keeps you safe on this wonderful beautiful day. God bless you, Nationwide. Are you still on my side? God bless you so much.” Thomas said he has been involved with the MLK Jr. Commission, the City agency that organizes the annual march, for about 20 years, though he stepped down this year. He said he brings his church's ministry to marchers each year because it shows that Trinity Missionary Baptist is still a part of the movement. “It gives a chance for the community to view that church is still an intricate part of civil rights and justice, period,” he said. Renee Garvens, president of the San Antonio LGBT Chamber of Commerce, carried a giant pride flag alongside a dozen other marchers. Local LGBTQIA groups have marched together for about four years now, she said, as the community’s fight for equal rights aligns with King’s mission. “He had a ... love-based message, and that’s what these groups represent – acceptance for all, love for all types of people,” she said.
01.21.2019	SAN ANTONIO - Hundreds of thousands of people marched throughout the city’s East Side on Monday in honor of Martin Luther King Jr.’s dream of inclusion and equality. The 2.75-mile march began at MLK Academy at 10 a.m. and ended at Pittman-Sullivan Park. For many, the message was all about inclusion and equality, not just in San Antonio, but across the nation. “This is a day where all lives matter, because that's what MLK wanted,” said Calydie Bonds, with Marches for Equality. “Equality is what we want.” Nonprofits, local businesses and government leaders were present to honor Martin Luther King Jr. “I really think the spirit and inspiration of Dr. King is alive and well. You see not just one neighborhood or ethnicity or race but everybody coming together to be inspired by that dream,” said U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-35. “Here in San Antonio, we don't build walls, we build bridges, and that's what we've been doing that for a number of decades. That’s what San Antonio is an example of for the rest of the country,” said U.S. Rep. Will Hurd, R-23. VIA Metropolitan Transit brought out the GM Dreamliner, which was the same bus civil rights icon Rosa Parks rode in during the 1987 MLK march. San Antonio is home to the nation’s largest MLK march. It’s estimated close to 300,000 people attend each year.
01.19.2019	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 19, 2019 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Walled Off From Reality: Congressman Doggett on Disappointing Trump Speech Washington, D.C. — Congressman Lloyd Doggett released the following statement in reaction to President Trump’s disappointing announcement that he is not reopening government: “President Trump has walled himself off from reality. His purported ‘compromise’ is as phony as his claim that a costly wall will protect us from a nonexistent crisis. In addition to 800,000 public servants wrongfully denied pay, Trump is only seeking more hostages with which to bargain. Paying this outrageous ransom would only encourage more hostage-taking and shutdowns within months. He offers Dreamers little more than what courts have already provided. I do agree with one Trump comment: The claimed impact of his plan is truly ‘unbelievable.’” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
01.17.2019	UNITED STATES CONGRESS For Immediate Release January 17, 2019 Contacts: Anthony Cruz (Buchanan), 202-225-5015 Kate Stotesbery (Doggett), 202-225-4865 Reps. Doggett & Buchannan Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Make Federal Student Aid Simpler, More Accessible Washington, DC — Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) and Congressman Vern Buchanan (R-FL) introduced the bipartisan Student Aid Simplification Act, which would make it easier for students to apply for financial aid and to repay certain student loans. By authorizing IRS data sharing with the Department of Education, students can easily access information required to qualify for aid. Congressman Doggett said: “After a decade of seeking to streamline the financial aid process, I still find FAFSA too complicated, confusing, and underutilized. Our bipartisan bill encourages better coordination between federal agencies so more students can apply for financial assistance by importing necessary financial information with one-click. We can simplify the application process while maintaining reasonable taxpayer privacy.” Congressman Buchanan said: “This legislation is a common sense measure to simplify and streamline the student aid application and repayment process, while also helping to reduce improper payments,” Buchanan said. “I look forward to working with Congressman Doggett on this bipartisan initiative.” For questions, please contact Kate Stotesbery with Congressman Doggett at kate.stotesbery@mail.house.gov, and Anthony Cruz with Congressman Buchanan at Anthony.cruz@mail.house.gov. ###
01.17.2019	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 17, 2019 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Congressman Doggett Named Chairman of Ways & Means Health Subcommittee Washington, D.C. — Congressman Lloyd Doggett was named Chairman of the Health Subcommittee of the Ways and Means Committee, the oldest committee of the United States Congress. In addition, he will serve on the Select Revenue Measures Subcommittee (formerly Tax) and was named to serve on the House Budget Committee. He released the following statement: “As Chair, I will put patients first, working to lower Big Pharma monopoly prices, cut out-of-pocket costs, and reverse Republican sabotage of our healthcare system. This includes giving Medicare the power to negotiate drug prices on behalf of seniors, ending surprise medical bills, and protecting the crucial access to care for the millions of Americans with pre-existing conditions. I hope that President Trump will follow the advice of Candidate Trump to find common ground with us, reject the advice of the Big Pharma executives he appointed to control his agenda, and deliver a real victory for the American people. We can finally break new ground on healthcare solutions for American families—not just those tailor-made for Big Pharma or corporate interests. This chairmanship allows me to elevate the experiences and disparities in healthcare that our community faces every day. Additionally, my continued work on the Select Revenue Measures Subcommittee of Ways and Means allows me to keep working on tax fairness issues; a new appointment to the Budget Committee offers an opportunity to advocate for wise spending and to pursue much-needed oversight over the Trump Administration.” ###
01.17.2019	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 17, 2019 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Strong Message to the Kremlin: Overwhelming House Vote to Block Trump’s Russian Sanctions Relief Washington, D.C. — Today—the deadline for Congress to block the Trump Administration’s lifting of sanctions on Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska’s companies—Congressman Doggett spoke on the House floor in support of today’s vote on a resolution of disapproval. In an overwhelming bipartisan vote, the House just voted to block sanctions relief for certain sanctioned Russian companies. The Senate should now do the same. This vote should rejuvenate a Senate effort supported by all Democrats and 11 Republicans, which fell only two Republican votes short for cloture yesterday. Congressman Lloyd Doggett’s speech in full is here and, in part, below: “If only President Trump were as eager to reopen our government as he is to reopen this sanctioned Russian company. The sanctions law against Russians, enacted over President Trump’s objection, was designed to deter Russian aggression against our democracy and beyond—to change Russian misconduct, not to yield right of way. Each day of chaos is another day when Vladimir Putin’s investment in Trump’s election pays bigger dividends in the drive to undermine Western democracies. Let’s send a strong, bipartisan message not just to the White House but to the Kremlin.” Last spring, as part of a House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee review of the Trump Administration’s aluminum and steel national security tariff policy, Congressman Doggett questioned the lifting of sanctions on Rusal. In July, he questioned the granting a tariff exemption for its affiliate Rusal USA a mere three days after the Putin/Trump Helsinki summit, ahead of thousands of American requests. Amidst a New York Times investigation, the Administration subsequently withdrew the exemption. Additional reporting yesterday revealed that Rusal is now headed by a cheerleader for the Russian occupation of Crimea—which was, of course, a part of the reason for the sanctions that the United States imposed. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
01.16.2019	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 16, 2019 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Congressman Doggett Urges Strong House Vote to Block Russian Sanctions Relief Washington, D.C. — Tomorrow, at the deadline for Congress to block the Trump Administration’s lifting of sanctions on Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska’s companies, the House is expected to vote on a resolution of disapproval. A successful vote tomorrow could rejuvenate a Senate effort supported by all Democrats and 11 Republicans, falling only two votes short for cloture earlier today. Congressman Lloyd Doggett commented: “The House should send a strong message of oversight to both the White House and the Kremlin by disapproving this Trump Administration favoritism. Now is hardly the time to lift sanctions on the companies of one of Putin’s closest buddies, Oleg Deripaska, whom Treasury previously noted ‘does not separate himself from the Russian state.’ While mostly shut down to business for Americans, the Treasury Department is rushing to open business for sanctioned Russian companies. The more light shed on this sordid arrangement, the worse it looks. We need a full intelligence review regarding whether this Trump agreement allows Deripaska to maintain effective influence over these businesses. Previously, Treasury Secretary Mnuchin had appeared open to a reasonable extension of the deadline to permit thorough Congressional review. Unfortunately, he has ignored Chairman Neal’s prompt request for such an extension and has largely gone radio silent except for the usual unqualified defense of Trump Administration action.” Last summer, as part of a House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee review of the Trump Administration’s aluminum and steel national security tariff policy, Congressman Doggett questioned the lifting of sanctions on Rusal and granting a tariff exemption for its affiliate Rusal USA a mere three days after the Putin/Trump Helsinki summit, ahead of thousands of American requests. Amidst a New York Times investigation, the Administration subsequently withdrew the exemption. Additional reporting today revealed that Rusal is now headed by a cheerleader for the Russian occupation of Crimea—which was, of course, a part of the reason for the sanctions that the United States imposed. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
01.15.2019	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 15, 2019 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Congressman Doggett on Rejecting Trump’s Russian Sanctions Relief Washington, D.C. — Congressman Lloyd Doggett reacted to today’s Senate vote to begin debate on a resolution of disapproval of the Trump Administration’s effort to lift sanctions on Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska’s companies, and to the House introduction of a similar resolution. Congressman Doggett previously uncovered that the Trump Administration granted a tariff exemption to Rusal USA a mere three days after the Helsinki summit, raising the exemption in a hearing in July of last year. He has been asking questions regarding these transactions since last spring. “Amidst one disclosure after another about President Trump’s peculiar relationship with Russian interests, now is hardly the time to lift sanctions on the companies of one of Putin’s closest buddies, Oleg Deripaska, whom Treasury previously noted ‘does not separate himself from the Russian state.’ Hopefully, the House will join the Senate in promptly advancing disapproval of another bit of inexplicable Trump Administration favoritism. The more light shed on this sordid arrangement, the worse it looks. We need a full intelligence review regarding whether this Trump agreement allows Deripaska to maintain effective influence over these businesses. It is very disappointing that Treasury Secretary Mnuchin has so far failed to extend the deadline to enable thorough Congressional review, as he once appeared willing to do.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
01.13.2019	Austin ISD and the Gus Garcia Young Men’s Leadership Academy community will have a memorial service Jan. 14 at 9 a.m. for the school’s namesake, Gus Garcia, who died Dec. 16. Garcia was a community leader who served as the city of Austin’s first Hispanic mayor. He also served on the AISD board of trustees from 1972-78 and was a member of Austin City Council for a total of 10 years, according to a Jan. 13 news release from the school district. According to the release, AISD Superintendent Paul Cruz; the school’s principal, Sterlin McGruder; Austin Mayor Steve Adler; U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin; and state Rep. Eddie Rodriguez, D-Austin, will be in attendance and will speak at the event. Students will also preform and present in Garcia’s honor. The memorial will take place at Gus Garcia Young Men’s Leadership Academy, 7414 Johnny Morris Road, Austin, at 9 a.m.
01.12.2019	KABUL — A former interpreter for U.S. troops in Afghanistan was detained Friday in Houston’s international airport with his family and threatened with deportation to Kabul, a legal service advocacy group said, in a move that could jeopardize his life. Mohasif Motawakil, 48, was detained by Customs and Border Protection. The agency allowed his wife and five children to be released at 10 p.m. Friday following pressure from lawmakers, said William Fitzgerald, a spokesman for the Refugee and Immigrant Center for Education and Legal Services. An attorney for RAICES is representing Motawakil. Motawakil and his family were granted special immigrant visas allotted for Afghans and Iraqis who supported U.S. war efforts and endangered because of their work, usually by the Taliban and other militants who consider them traitors and prize their capture. Motawakil served as an interpreter for U.S. troops from 2012-2013, and later as a U.S. contractor, Fitzgerald said. The Special Immigrant Visa process takes years for many applicants, who must get letters of support from U.S. officials to vouch for them and must demonstrate their lives have been imperiled. Someone, potentially in the family, opened sealed medical records, prompting CBP to detain the family over concerns the records could have been “faked,” Fitzgerald told The Washington Post. “Then [CBP] said they would be deported,” he said, adding that the family is “confused and traumatized” over the ordeal. CBP, the State Department and the U.S. Embassy in Kabul did not return a request for comment. The Houston Chronicle, which first covered the story, reported agency officials could not respond due to the government shutdown. An attorney for RAICES has not been able to meet with Motawakil, Fitzgerald said. “How unjust that this Afghan family, who helped our military, is in same airport as counsel — & yet have been walled off from one another,” Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Tex.) said on Twitter. Doggett made calls to CBP, and Reps. Sheila Jackson Lee and Al Green, both Texas Democrats, went to the airport in support of Motawakil, Fitzgerald said. Thousands of Afghans and their families have received those visas and resettled in the U.S. since 2009, when the program began. There were 2,410 principal applicants who arrived with family members in 2018 — a 50 percent decline compared to the previous year. The number of visa approvals also fell by 60 percent in 2018 compared to the previous year, according to State Department data. No One Left Behind, an advocacy group for former interpreters, has said heightened vetting measures by the Trump administration was to blame, and waiting years for approval places them in “severely dangerous situations,” said Kirt Lewis, the group’s programs director. About 19,000 Afghan principal applicants are in some part of the vetting process for the visas, according to the State Department. They are waiting as a resurgent Taliban controls swags of Afghanistan, prompting former interpreters to go into hiding. Motawakil’s family was taken in for the night by the Afghan Cultural Center in Houston, though their fate in the United States, along with Motawakil, has yet to be determined, Fitzgerald said.
01.12.2019	A former translator for U.S. forces in Afghanistan was detained Friday in Houston's airport by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) agents and threatened with deportation to Kabul, Afghanistan, along with his wife and five children. Four Texas Democrats contacted CBP on Friday on behalf of Mohasif Motawakil, a 48-year-old from Afghanistan who served with U.S. troops as a translator from 2012-2013, and later worked as a U.S. contractor in the region, the Texas immigrant advocacy group RAICES reported. The detention occurred hours after the family's arrival from Kabul. Texas Reps. Lloyd Doggett (D) and Joaquin Castro (D) made calls to CBP on Motawakil's behalf, the group reported, while Reps. Sheila Jackson Lee (D) and Al Green (D) arrived at the airport in support of the family. "I've urged that Mohasif Motawakil & his family be swiftly granted access to their legal counsel. Remain deeply troubled they’ve been confined. How unjust that this Afghan family, who helped our military, is in same airport as counsel—& yet have been walled off from one another," Doggett tweeted Friday evening. Motawakil and his family are apparently being threatened with deportation over the opening of sealed medical records by a member of his family, which raised concerns among U.S. officials that the documents could be fakes. A CBP official said the agency could not confirm whether Motawakil had made contact with his attorney. RAICES wrote Friday on Twitter that Motawakil remains in detention, separated from the group who arrived at the airport to represent him. "The father remains detained and his wife and children were allowed into the U.S. pending the outcome of his proceedings. Due to the restrictions of the Privacy Act, U.S. Customs and Border Protection does not discuss the details of individual cases," a CBP spokesman wrote in an email to The Hill. "[A]pparently they opened an envelope w/medical records that they were told not to open. For that, they are being deported. Not only that, CBP won’t let us provide legal counsel," RAICES wrote Friday evening. A request for comment from RAICES on Saturday concerning whether they had made contact with Motawakil was not immediately returned. The group posted Friday night that six members of the family had been released and booked in a hotel in Houston, adding that the children were "traumatized" and hoping for their father's return. "The mom and 5 kids are being paroled imminently," RAICES wrote. "Huge thanks to @JacksonLeeTX18 & @RepAlGreen who came to the airport and to @RepLloydDoggett @JoaquinCastrotx who made calls. We can't let up. @CBP are holding on to the father. They should release him asap."
01.11.2019	The touching memorial at the U.S. Capitol on Thursday for murdered Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi was marred only by the undercurrent of inaction it implied. With each speech, more than a dozen members of Congress heaped deservedly kind words upon Khashoggi, praised the enduring tenets of press freedom, condemned efforts to stymie voices like Khashoggi’s, and demanded that Congress act. In what way? For the most part, they did not say. Tom Malinowski, the freshman congressman from New Jersey, was the exception. Malinowski met Khashoggi just a few months before his murder in October at a small gathering in Northern Virginia, he said. Khashoggi told the congressional candidate and former assistant secretary of state that he worried about the decline of “America’s moral voice” in the world, particularly in the Arab world. “We talked about what that might mean for the courageous democracy activists from Saudi Arabia to Egypt to Bahrain who could once count on America at least to try to restrain their regimes from persecuting them,” Malinowski said. “In my own mind I was worried about the safety of some of the brave people I had met in those countries when I was an American diplomat. I was not worried about Jamal. He was here. He was supposed to be safe.” Malinowski, who was the State Department’s top human rights official during the Obama Administration’s second term, was previously the Washington director of the advocacy group Human Rights Watch—a crusader from the outside who exerted pressure on the U.S. government over domestic torture practices and U.S. diplomatic ties to foreign governments with questionable human rights records. In a recent interview with Foreign Policy, Malinowski outlined a legislative agenda that, among other things, included “scrutinizing the U.S.-Saudi relationship amid Saudi Arabia’s devastating war in Yemen and following the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi inside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul.” Only one week into his congressional tenure, Malinowski looked like a veteran at the podium. He called on the Trump administration to use the Magnitsky Act to sanction Saudi crown prince Mohammed bin Salman for ordering the killing of Khashoggi, saying “we have given the administration all of the tools that it needs to do what is right, to say to Saudi Arabia that while you may choose your own leaders you might wish to consider the consequences of giving the keys to your kingdom for the next 50 years: to someone who will be forever tainted by this crime.” Malinowski pulled no punches in calling out the Saudi leader. “If the administration will not do what is right, Congress can—and I think Congress will,” he said. “We can and we should wipe the smug smile of impunity off of Mohammed bin Salman’s face and restore proper balance to our relationship with Saudi Arabia.” The room hummed in agreement, but also with some surprise. Of the 14 members of Congress who spoke —including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Senators Mark Warner, Amy Klobuchar, and Chris Van Hollen, and Representatives Adam Schiff, Will Hurd, Steve Chabot, and Eliot Engel—Malinowski was the only one to mention the Magnitsky Act. But, more significantly, he was the only one to mention the Saudi crown prince by name. The trump administration’s response to Khashoggi’s murder has been nothing short of ambivalent. In a bizarre statement in November, the president took Mohammed bin Salman’s word over the conclusion of the Central Intelligence Agency. “It could very well be that the crown prince had knowledge of this tragic event — maybe he did and maybe he didn’t!” Trump said in the statement. The White House position has consistently aligned with the judgment of Mohammed bin Salman, despite the fact that the CIA determined that the crown prince personally ordered the assassination of Khashoggi. At the American University in Cairo Thursday, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, the former CIA chief, ignored the Khashoggi incident entirely in a wide-ranging speech on America’s Middle East policy. Instead, he praised Saudi Arabia for its role in containing Iran and stabilizing the region. “Saudi Arabia, too, has worked with us to counter Iranian expansion and regional influence,” said Pompeo, who has planned a stop in Saudi Arabia in the coming days. “We, the United States, commend each of these efforts, and we seek for all nations to continue the work to constrain the full array of the regime’s malign activity.” At the memorial, Pelosi questioned the administration’s logic. “If we decide that commercial interest should override the statements that we make and the actions that we take then we must admit that we have lost all moral authority to talk about any of the atrocities anywhere anytime,” she said. Lloyd Doggett, Democratic congressman from Austin, Texas, offered a more acerbic rendition of that same sentiment. “When those murders [of journalists] or torture or imprisonment are ignored, whether they're directed by a supposed ally or an obvious adversary, whether by a Crown Prince or the Kremlin or the Burmese military or an ayatollah or an Egyptian dictator or some tyrant who purports to be a left winger or any other third-rate thug,” Doggett told the room, “...the world becomes a little less safe for journalists. And indeed it becomes a little less safe for the rest of us.” Despite a bitter January chill and unrelenting winds, the memorial drew a crowd. A hundred chairs were not enough, not with 15 cameras hugging the back and sides of the room. About two dozen stood for the proceedings, organized and emceed by journalist and author Lawrence Wright—a friend of Khashoggi’s who interviewed him for his book on Al Qaeda, “The Looming Tower” (Wright’s heartfelt tribute in The New Yorker, where he works as a staff writer, was published Wednesday night and previewed the memorial). The documentary filmmaker Alex Gibney and former FBI special agent Ali Soufan were also behind the event, which was formally hosted by Warner, Schiff, and Chabot. In addition to the members of Congress, speakers included press freedom advocates and Washington Post publisher Fred Ryan. They called for those responsible to be held accountable for killing Khashoggi. It’s a New Year, and if the Saudis thought Washington would move on by now, it seems they are mistaken. But, the state of affairs seems bleak: Congress says it wants action, but does not take action; the White House absolves the Saudi crown prince of any and all guilt, and Secretary of State Pompeo has also chosen to ignore the CIA consensus rather than publicly contradict the president. While follow-up action is not typically the byproduct of a memorial service, this memorial service was different. It transpired to say, We’re still here. We’re still demanding answers. “[Khashoggi’s] daughters probably said it best,” said Klobuchar, “and I quote, ‘This is no eulogy, for that would confer a state of closure. Rather this is a promise that his light will never fade, that his legacy will be preserved within us.’ That's our job right now in Congress not only for what's going on around the world but what's going on in our own country.” If nothing else, the memorial was a reminder that we are far from closure. Before concluding, Schiff, who co-chairs the Congressional Freedom of the Press Caucus with Chabot, told the audience that he co-founded the caucus “with a congressman from Indiana, a backbencher named Mike Pence.” The caucus, which sponsored the memorial, was founded in 2006. The world is a starkly different place 13 years later. Schiff’s admonishment was understood, the disappointment implicit. An audible sigh, maybe even a slight chuckle at the irony, emitted within the room. Schiff did not need to say more. Heads shook in disapproval. When the memorial ended, there was no catharsis. Audience members, many of whom knew Khashoggi personally, stood up and chatted. Friends greeted old friends, introduced new friends, shook hands. But there was no feeling of accomplishment in the air, only the sense that there is much more work to be done.
01.11.2019	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 11, 2019 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Never to Go Unnoticed: Rep. Doggett, Lawrence Wright, Press Freedom Advocates Speak in Memory of Jamal Khashoggi at 100 Day Ceremony Washington, D.C. — Yesterday evening, Congressman Lloyd Doggett spoke at the ceremony held in the U.S. Capitol to mark 100 days since the murder of Saudi Arabian journalist and American resident Jamal Khashoggi in a Saudi consulate. Texas-based, Pulitzer Prize-winning author Lawrence Wright, who was a personal friend of Mr. Khashoggi, held a time of silence in his memory. Among the speakers were Washington Post Publisher Fred Ryan, Margaux Ewen of Reporters Without Borders North America, Sherif Mansour of the Committee to Protect Journalists, Congressman Adam Schiff, Congressional Freedom of the Press Caucus Co-Chair, and a bipartisan group of lawmakers. In October, Congressman Doggett led a House effort urging President Trump to impose sanctions, under the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act, on Mr. Khashoggi’s murderers. As he continues to press to end U.S. involvement in the war in Yemen, he looks to Jamal Khashoggi’s warning in the Washington Post about that war: “We should not need to be reminded of the value of human life.” You can view Congressman Doggett’s full remarks in memory of Mr. Khashoggi in video here and as delivered below: “One of our colleagues—who’s not present today—may have, in an apparent attempt to defend the disgraceful reaction to this Khashoggi murder, hit on a central truth when he said, ‘many countries murder journalists.’ It persists when those murders, or torture, or imprisonment are ignored, whether they're directed by a supposed ally or an obvious adversary, whether by a Crown Prince, or the Kremlin, or the Burmese military, or an Ayatollah, or an Egyptian dictator, or some tyrant who purports to be a left-winger, or any other third-rate thug. Each time our government turns its face away, and ignores, and offers excuses, and claims that pragmatism is more important than freedom of expression, the world becomes a little less safe for journalists. And, indeed, it becomes a little less safe for the rest of us who rely on their insight and those of us who share that preference: to live in a world that is fact-based, even though that seems to be going out of vogue in some quarters. When a House colleague has been lauded for assaulting a journalist on our own soil, the special urgency literally strikes home. Today, for those of us who really only know Jamal Khashoggi through his courageous writing, we join in his name to remember all those journalists who are suffering now. Whose only crime is to shed light where there is otherwise only darkness and propaganda. Let’s never forget this one murder, nor the perpetrators, who continue at this very moment to continue killing innocence in Yemen. I want to thank you Larry and all the others who encouraged this memorial. I believe that our lasting memorial to Khashoggi and all those who risk their own personal safety and liberty to report the truth must be to never let their suffering go unnoticed. And to reject rewards for those who repress them, regardless of whether they are friend or foe. This is because we understand that freedom of the press is not a frill that we can sacrifice, but it is a value that is fundamental to both our security and our personal liberty.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
01.10.2019	WASHINGTON — The Trump administration on Thursday defended its decision to lift sanctions on companies linked to the billionaire Russian oligarch Oleg V. Deripaska, despite deep concerns from newly empowered House Democrats that the move was an effort by President Trump to help an ally of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. In a 90-minute classified briefing with both Democratic and Republican lawmakers, Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, explained the administration’s decision to lift sanctions on three companies controlled by Mr. Deripaska: EN+, Rusal and JSC EuroSibEnergo. He told lawmakers that the White House played no formal role in the decision and denied that the Treasury Department’s political appointees overruled career officials on the matter, according to lawmakers who attended the briefing. Democrats left the briefing unconvinced and unimpressed, and Mr. Mnuchin told reporters after the meeting that he would consider delaying the lifting of the sanctions so skeptics in Congress could have more time to review the decision. However, he did not indicate that he was rethinking it. Just hours before the meeting, the Treasury Department released a statement saying the administration had taken significant steps to ensure that Mr. Deripaska did not reassert his control over the three companies. “These entities are undergoing significant restructuring and governance changes that sever Deripaska’s control and significantly diminish his ownership,” Mr. Mnuchin said in the statement. “Treasury will be vigilant in ensuring that EN+ and Rusal meet these commitments. If these companies fail to comply with the terms, they will face very real and swift consequences, including the reimposition of sanctions.” Rusal is the world’s second-largest aluminum company, and Mr. Mnuchin has expressed concern about damaging aluminum markets if it went out of business. The secretary argued that relieving the companies from sanctions still punishes Mr. Deripaska under the agreement reached. But several Democrats said that after hearing from Mr. Mnuchin, they did not believe the Treasury Department plan would sufficiently separate Mr. Deripaska’s companies from his control, or from Russia’s government. Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California called the presentation “one of the worst classified briefings we’ve received from the Trump administration” and accused Mr. Mnuchin of “wasting the time” of Congress. She said Mr. Mnuchin was unresponsive to important questions. Representative Brad Sherman, another California Democrat, said he opposed easing the sanctions because it would only increase the wealth of Mr. Deripaska. He said Mr. Mnuchin had no response to that argument except that lawmakers should trust the administration. Mr. Mnuchin, who waited in a congressional auditorium for nearly an hour while lawmakers cast votes, said after the briefing that he would continue to be transparent with lawmakers and was “shocked” that Ms. Pelosi was critical of him. “One of the goals of sanctions is to change behavior, and the proposed delistings of companies that Deripaska will no longer control show that sanctions can result in positive change,” Mr. Mnuchin said in the statement. Mr. Mnuchin also pushed back against suggestions from critics that the administration had been soft on Russia. He noted that the administration had imposed sanctions on 272 “Russian related” individuals and entities. Democrats remain wary of the administration’s handling of Russia, particularly as the Trump campaign continues to face scrutiny related to Russian interference in the 2016 election. But they have little chance of overturning the Treasury Department’s decision, announced in December after an aggressive lobbying campaign by companies controlled by Mr. Deripaska, without overwhelming bipartisan support. The invitation by Democrats was one of their first demonstrations of oversight since taking control of the House this month. They have made clear that they would be less accommodating than the Republicans, and the new dynamic was evident in the swiftness with which Mr. Mnuchin scheduled the briefing after the formal request this week. “We’re saying to the Trump administration, and to the Russians, we are looking at every transaction you’re involved with,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas. “We will exercise our oversight.” Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting.
01.09.2019	UNITED STATES CONGRESS For Immediate Release January 9, 2019 Contacts: Fabiola Rodriguez-Ciampoli (García) 703-298-8179 Kate Stotesbery (Doggett) 202-225-4865 Reps. Jesús “Chuy” García & Lloyd Doggett Lead 50+ Lawmakers Urging Trump to Keep IRS Tax Refunds on Time Washington, DC – Representatives Jesús “Chuy” García (IL-04) and Lloyd Doggett (TX-35), a senior member on the Ways & Means Committee, led a group of over 50 House Democrats in a letter urging President Trump to swiftly reopen the government and address the potential crisis it causes for American families who need to receive their tax refunds on time. Despite tax filing season fast approaching, the IRS has been operating with barely 12% of its workforce. Each day of the shutdown increases the likeliness of delayed tax returns or even erroneous tax filings, especially with the IRS facing new operating hurdles due to passage of the Republican tax bill last Congress, including an increase in the number of anticipated inquiries from tax filers about the new law. “The recent assurances from the acting White House Chief of Staff and head of the OMB, Mick Mulvaney, offer little comfort to the millions of families who depend on their refunds. Forcing more IRS workers to work without pay is not a solution. The President must open the government as soon as possible,” said Rep. García. “The working class and low-income families I represent often live paycheck-to-paycheck and need every dollar and penny they earn to make ends meet, feed their families, fill their gas tank and pay their rent or mortgage. “Breaking his promise that his wasteful wall would be paid for in pesos, President Trump is now asking taxpayers to pay twice. Working families should not have to question whether the tax refund they depend on will be delayed because of another Trump tantrum. It’s time for Trump to stop treating public servants as hostages,” said Rep. Lloyd Doggett. Full text of the letter can be found in this link. ###
01.08.2019	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 8, 2019 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Statement from Congressman Doggett Ahead of President Trump’s Border Address Washington, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett released the following statement ahead of President Trump’s address tonight: “Not content with cruelly separating mothers from their children, President Trump is determined to separate American taxpayers from billions to expand a wall that he promised would be paid for in pesos. Politically obsessed with this wasteful wall, he has previously attempted to pay for it by imposing a 20% tax on all American purchases from Mexico, relying upon the unapproved NAFTA renewal, claiming that the wall would pay for itself, and allegedly assuring our security by denying the Border Patrol their paychecks. Now, apparently, he claims authority to ignore Congress and direct construction by executive fiat. This outrageous shutdown by Trump of much of his own government will be ended when enough Republicans recognize that Trump is himself our major crisis and demonstrate the courage to tell him to get real.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON — The United States is accusing Peru of violating its commitment to protect the Amazon rain forest from deforestation, threatening to hold Lima in violation of the 2007 United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement. On Friday, Robert Lighthizer, President Trump’s top trade negotiator, announced that he was seeking formal consultations with Peru to resolve concerns about its recent decision to curtail the authority of the country’s forestry auditor, Organismo de Supervisión de los Recursos Forestales, which was established to comply with the treaty. The move prompted concern within the Trump administration — and complaint from congressional Democrats — that it will lead to more illegal logging in Peru. “By taking this unprecedented step, the Trump administration is making clear that it takes monitoring and enforcement of U.S. trade agreements seriously, including obligations to strengthen forest sector governance,” Mr. Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, said in a statement. The challenge is intended, in part, to send a signal to Democrats that the administration is willing to enforce environmental and labor provisions that are included in trade agreements. The forestry agreement was inserted into the 2007 trade agreement by Representative Nancy Pelosi, the California Democrat who was sworn in as speaker of the House on Thursday. The language is the basis for enforcement provisions of environmental and labor standards in the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement that the three countries settled on last year. Mr. Trump needs congressional Democrats to support the new U.S.M.C.A., which has yet to pass Congress. But Democrats have questioned whether the revised deal, which replaces the North American Free Trade Agreement, has enough teeth to force Mexico to comply with commitments to raise wages in the automotive industry. The Peru forestry annex was considered a model for a new inspection system that could include confiscation at the border of goods deemed to violate the treaty, and the prosecution of companies that import noncompliant products. In a letter to members of Congress last month, Mr. Lighthizer said he would request that an independent tribunal be convened — an action intended, in part, to win Democratic votes for the revised Nafta, which includes similar environmental protections. “As you know, ensuring that the commitments of our trading partners are monitored and enforced is a top priority,” Mr. Lighthizer wrote to Representative Richard Neal, Democrat of Massachusetts and the new chairman of the powerful House Ways and Means Committee. In a signal to Democrats that he will fight on their behalf, Mr. Lighthizer said he agreed with Mr. Neal that Peru’s decision to dismantle an agency created to stop the illegal harvesting of trees was “unacceptable.” Mr. Lighthizer has spent the past several weeks trying to contain the fallout from Mr. Trump’s announcement on Dec. 2 that he planned to withdraw from Nafta, a statement intended to pressure Democrats into passing the new agreement within the next six months. Mr. Lighthizer met with Ms. Pelosi last month, attempting to reassure her that the administration planned to implement a robust system of inspections at the border to ensure that Mexico was complying with its labor and environmental obligations. “While there are positive things in this proposed trade agreement, it is just a list without real enforcement of the labor and environmental protections,” Ms. Pelosi said after the meeting. Peru has scaled back environmental enforcement in recent years in an attempt to attract greater foreign investment. In 2016, the Peruvian government fired the forestry organization’s director, Rolando Navarro, after timber industry executives protested the seizure of Amazonian wood by American officials. In December, the Peruvian government limited the independence of the country’s forestry auditor. Over the past 10 years, Congress has sent Peru $90 million in aid intended to beef up enforcement. In 2015, Department of Homeland Security officials in Houston, acting on intelligence from their Peruvian counterparts, seized 1,770 metric tons of Amazon rain forest wood they found in a rusty freighter. But since then, enforcement has waned, and illegal deforestation is increasing, according to an Associated Press investigation published in April. House Democrats applauded Mr. Lighthizer’s move on Friday. “Finally, a tree falls in the woods and someone hears it,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett of Texas. “This U.S.T.R. deserves credit for doing what the previous one failed to do. For years, I’ve been seeking enforcement regarding rampant illegal logging.”
01.04.2019	LIMA, Peru — The top U.S. trade official on Friday took a first step toward potential sanctions on Peru for allegedly violating environmental protections aimed at combating illegal logging, a case that could have ramifications for the new North America free-trade deal. U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said the Trump administration has requested consultations over the Peruvian government over its decision to make an agency monitoring the notoriously corrupt logging industry part of the Environment Ministry. The agency is required to be independent under the U.S.-Peru trade pact. “I urge Peru to abide by its obligations,” Lighthizer said. Peru had no immediate response, but its Ministry of Foreign Trade and Tourism said Thursday that the forest auditor’s office remains independent despite the change. The case is being closely watched in Washington, where lawmakers are assessing the Trump administration’s response as a sign of how closely it might enforce protections in the revamped North America trade accord for the U.S., Canada and Mexico. The U.S. has never before taken punitive measures against an international trade partner accused of violating environmental protections in a free trade deal. “Finally, a tree falls in the woods and someone hears it,” said Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a Democrat from Texas who for years has pushed for greater enforcement. Illegal logging has long been an issue in Peru, where the World Bank estimates 80 percent of timber exports are illegal. Companies are required to obtain permits showing the wood comes from approved harvesting areas, but prosecutors say that for years regional forestry officials have signed off on paperwork falsely stating the origin of timber. The 2006 U.S.-Peru free trade pact included what was considered a groundbreaking environmental agreement in which Peru agreed to allow the Agency for the Supervision of Forest Resources to operate as a separate independent agency. The U.S. has spent more than $90 million in forest-protection aid and other assistance to Peru. An April 2017 investigation by the AP found Peru’s government has repeatedly undermined Washington’s efforts to get it to clean up its corrupt timber trade and is failing to meet the environmental requirements established in the accord.
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON — Congress is reviewing the Trump administration’s decision to lift sanctions on companies owned by Oleg V. Deripaska, an influential Russian oligarch with close ties to President Vladimir V. Putin, Democrats said on Friday. The reviews could fuel a congressional effort to block the administration’s decision, which came after an aggressive lobbying and legal campaign against the sanctions by Mr. Deripaska’s corporate empire. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, laid the groundwork to block the lifting of the sanctions on Friday, filing a congressional resolution disapproving of the move by the Treasury Department. In a statement accompanying the resolution, Mr. Schumer said that “critical questions” remained unanswered about the agreement to lift the sanctions between the Treasury Department and Mr. Deripaska’s companies, including the aluminum giant Rusal. If a formal review process — which is being conducted by multiple committees, including the bipartisan staff of the Senate Banking Committee — is unable to resolve those questions to his satisfaction, Mr. Schumer signaled that he would push forward with the resolution. To keep the sanctions in place, the resolution would have to be approved by both chambers of Congress before Jan. 18. That seems unlikely, given that it would require the Senate’s Republican majority to split with the administration. In the absence of congressional action, the sanctions would automatically be lifted from Rusal and the holding company that controls it, EN+, as well as a third Deripaska company. The sanctions, which were first imposed on Mr. Deripaska and his companies last spring, have created a tricky situation for both the administration and its Democratic critics, who contend that President Trump has been too soft on Russia. The goal of the sanctions was to punish the Russian government and key supporters for Moscow’s interference in the 2016 presidential election and other hostile acts. The Treasury Department’s justification for the sanctions noted that, in addition to Mr. Deripaska’s connections to the Russian government, he had been accused of having ties to organized crime; committing extortion, racketeering and bribery; and even ordering the killing of a rival businessman. More recently, he has emerged as a bit player in the special counsel’s investigation into Russian interference in the election and any connection to the Trump campaign. But the sanctions had roiled the global aluminum market, leading even some sanctions advocates to acknowledge unintended negative effects on companies in the United States, Ireland, Sweden, Jamaica, Guinea and elsewhere. The solution approved by the Treasury Department would lift the sanctions against Mr. Deripaska’s companies in exchange for him reducing his stake in EN+ from approximately 70 percent to less than 45 percent, and giving up control of that company and Rusal. Mr. Deripaska would remain on the sanctions list, the department said, casting the agreement as a way to punish the oligarch by separating him from his companies without creating broader economic problems. Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas, accused the administration of approving “a Rusal ruse” to “cover for one of Putin’s closest buddies.” Other Democrats contended that the Treasury Department was trying to ram the sanctions-relief decision through before the new Congress had time to stop it, and before the special counsel issued findings that might touch on Mr. Deripaska’s work with Paul Manafort, Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman and a target of the special counsel investigation. In a letter sent Friday to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey questioned whether Mr. Deripaska’s companies had agreed to the terms. Mr. Menendez, the top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, which is also reviewing the sanctions decision, asked Mr. Mnuchin how the Treasury Department could “ensure that Mr. Deripaska does not retain and exercise informal influence over the decision making and operations of Rusal.” “Treasury will continue to work closely with Congress as questions arise related to this intended delisting,” a department spokesman said in a statement. The agreement between the department and Mr. Deripaska’s companies “will significantly diminish Deripaska’s ownership and sever his control, while mandating an unprecedented level of transparency for Treasury into the dealings of these companies.” A version of this article appears in print on Jan. 5, 2019, on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: Treasury Deal With Russian Is Questioned By Democrats. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe
01.03.2019	As lawmakers return to Washington for the official start of the 116th Congress, they're making history. Forty-three of the incoming members are women, bringing the total number of women to 102 in the House and 25 in the senate -- the biggest female representation to date. The freshman class also includes the first Muslim women, the first Native American women and the youngest woman to serve on Capitol Hill, at just 29-years-old. Texas voters also sent the first Latina women to represent them in the U.S. House. "It's historic. This is not a congress that we've seen before,” Sherri Greenberg, a professor at the LBJ school of Public Affairs at the University of Texas at Austin, said. Greenberg said this has been a discussion in Texas for years. "Demographics don't vote, people vote or don't vote. I do think that we are seeing a change in this last cycle,” Greenberg said. She thinks the demographics of Congress and the House majority now going to the Democrats will impact issues like healthcare and immigration. “With the Democrats having control of the House, there’s a lot that’s going to be stopped,” Greenberg said. "There are bills and pieces of legislation that simply will not come out of the house.” Texas Representative Lloyd Doggett said he thinks it will balance the scales of power. "The founders of this country envisioned that we would have three branches of government with checks and balances,” Rep. Doggett said. He also thinks the new diverse faces are a plus. "It's a great message to our country that our Congress begins to look a little bit more like our country,” Rep. Doggett said. Republican Congressman Roger Williams sent KVUE a statement: “As we begin the 116th Congress, I am honored again to represent the people of Texas’ 25th District. With all the changes going on in Washington, the one thing Texans can count on is my unwavering dedication to liberty, prosperity and a secure America. I am proud of what we have accomplished so far, and I look forward to continuing to work on issues that matter to you.”
01.01.2019	In the Bexar County Courthouse on Tuesday, Joe Gonzales lifted his right hand and was sworn in by Judge Ron Rangel of the 379th Criminal District Court as Bexar County's new criminal district attorney. Gonzales thanked his family, friends, and supporters for the journey, especially his wife, Yvonne. “She believed in my dream so much she was willing to interrupt her career and prematurely retire ... and for this I will always be indebted to you,” he said. Gonzales said he is giving himself a six-month timeline to start working on issues he highlighted in his campaign: expanding cite-and-release policies, reforming the bail bond system, increasing enrollment in diversionary programs, and strengthening the district attorney office’s family violence unit. "Hopefully we can at least get started with implementing them,” he said. Gonzales defeated incumbent Nico LaHood, who was in his first term as district attorney, in the March Democratic primary and went on to defeat Republican Tylden Shaeffer in November by nearly 17 points. LaHood’s time in office was marked with controversies, including an appearance in an anti-vaccination documentary and a plea bargain agreement with a serial DWI offender. In 2017, a state judge testified that LaHood threatened to destroy the law practice of Gonzales after the two clashed in the judge's chambers. The incident prompted Gonzales to challenge LaHood in the primary. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Austin), who spoke at Tuesday’s ceremony, praised Gonzales for his d0or-knocking and block-walking campaign, adding that Gonzales' defeat of an incumbent was a reminder to all public officials that they only get a “short-term lease on the job.” “Accountability in our community is about holding those who serve in those jobs accountable, and that’s what happened here, with some dissatisfaction the community had and with the very spirited and courageous campaign that Joe ran,” he said. Gonzales’ integrity, perseverance, and varied work background would help him in his new role, Doggett said. “In a district attorney, it’s not just the legal experience or someone who graduated from St. Mary’s with honors, but it’s the values learned growing up here on the West Side, in a family with a single mom,” Doggett said. “These are the kind of values that when he’s evaluating these cases and knowing that he shared some of the challenges of some of the people coming in front of him — it’s good experience to have.” Gonzales said his first priority would be to expand the county’s cite-and-release policy that LaHood piloted in January 2018. The policy allowed law enforcement officers to ticket people for certain Class B misdemeanors, including possession of marijuana under four ounces, instead of arresting them. Gonzales, who has been working with San Antonio Police Department on implementing a policy, said that cite and release keeps first-time offenders out of jail. “I’m feeling very elated, very excited to get started, roll up our sleeves, and get busy,” he said. “We’ve already talked to various members of law enforcement – for example [San Antonio Police] Chief [William] McManus and [Bexar County] Sheriff [Javier] Salazar – and we’re putting the finishing touches on [the program], and hopefully we’ll get off the ground with it in the next 60 to 90 days.”
12.31.2018	For most of 2018, it was conventional wisdom among Russia experts to say, knowingly, that Moscow was disappointed and more than a bit perplexed by Donald Trump. Russia wants acceptance of its annexation of Crimea and recognition of its security primacy over Ukraine and Russia’s western border region, but it hasn’t gotten any of that. Russia would also like to see an end to economic sanctions imposed over Ukraine; however, thanks to the U.S. Congress, it’s now subject to more sanctions. More broadly, Russia seeks recognition — in Syria, in Europe, and globally — of its status as a top-tier power alongside Washington and Beijing. Instead, Putin is endlessly linked to Trump’s clownish behavior on the world stage and disdain for democracy, while China’s President Xi gets to pose as the defender of norms and international cooperation. Moscow is likely still perplexed, but it got a whole Advent calendar worth of presents from Trump this month. The departure of Defense Secretary James Mattis is a huge boost to Moscow’s unrelenting campaign to weaken and undermine NATO. For the last two years, Mattis has personified U.S. commitment to NATO — traveling where Trump wouldn’t go, saying the things Trump wouldn’t say, and, if we are honest, letting Americans and allies alike continue to believe in a commitment that Trump manifestly does not share. That security blanket is gone now. And the confusion and anxiety we’re seeing across Europe in response is exactly what Moscow hoped to produce with its meddling in the first place. Then there’s the policy shift that led to Mattis’s resignation: Trump’s abrupt troop pullouts from Syria and (possibly) Afghanistan. For years, Moscow has wanted Washington to have less influence in Afghanistan, which has floated on the edge of Russia’s security reach for centuries. And for even longer, Moscow has wanted to have a voice in the security affairs of the Middle East, and to be recognized as a first-tier player there. Its presence in Syria, and its military support for both the murderous regime of Bashar al-Assad and the Iranian militias that support him, is expensive and risky. With Washington gone, those activities will be a little less treacherous. And it will become more apparent that the player who can help regional actors get what they want — and honor their long-term commitments — is Putin, and not an American president. Whether you thought U.S. engagement in Syria should have been bigger, or should never have happened, the way Trump proceeded with the withdrawal announcement was a catastrophe. Our European allies who also have troops on the ground — and more importantly the Kurdish and Arab forces who have lost tens of thousands of soldiers fighting ISIS alongside U.S. troops — got no warning of the decision. That means no time to make a new plan to defend their territories without the U.S. or make deals to safeguard civilian lives. Tens of thousands of families who had moved to areas under the protection of U.S. forces are now at risk. That is potentially a death sentence for them — and it’s definitely destroyed the credibility of promises from U.S. leaders for years to come. Moscow got one more big win this month that you may have missed. The Treasury Department said it plans to to lift sanctions on the business empire of Oleg Deripaska, one of Moscow’s biggest oligarchs … who happens to be closely linked to former Trump campaign chair Paul Manafort. The announcement comes after intense lobbying by Europeans and volatility in commodity markets. Deripaska’s aluminum company, Rusal, is among the world’s largest non-Chinese suppliers. And Trump’s tariff war with China, including a 10 percent surcharge on aluminum imports, has spooked markets. Under the deal, Deripaska will reduce his stake in several of his companies to under 50 percent, and he personally will remain on the sanctions list. But despite these efforts to prevent Deripaska from influencing the companies, he will still be the largest single shareholder, and some other shares will be controlled by his allies. Democratic congressman Lloyd Doggett, who has accused the Trump administration of going easy on Rusal in the past, said the move amounted to “sliding another big gift under Vladimir Putin’s Christmas tree.” It appears that much like our allies, Putin was surprised by all these gifts from the Trump administration. At his end-of-the-year news conference, Putin said he didn’t know what the pullout from Syria means, but he couldn’t resist tweaking Washington, noting the U.S. has “been in Afghanistan 17 years and almost every year they say they are pulling out.” Reporters said reactions in Russia ranged from “ill-concealed gloating” to “suspicions that it’s all a smokescreen for some secret U.S. moves.” In the long run, there’s every reason to believe these withdrawals are going to prove as dubious a win for Moscow as the troop presences were for Washington. In Afghanistan in particular, Russia ought to be careful what it wishes for, lest extremist groups in Afghanistan find energy to target Russians or otherwise destabilize the nearby Central Asian states. For much of the last two years, close observers of Trump foreign policy have bent over backwards not to attribute every move to puppet masters in Moscow, for three reasons: because we have a professional distaste for conspiracy theories, because we didn’t think that is how Putin and his intelligence professionals would operate, and because we simply couldn’t imagine someone being that obvious. For the record, I still don’t believe these helter-skelter policies are being devised and run from Russia. Nor do I believe that it’s smart to have a Russia policy that is nothing but confrontation. But the fact is, we’re ending the year with an arms control treaty that Moscow disliked on its way out and thousands of American troops set to leave places Moscow didn’t want them to be. Meanwhile, ever-more Russian troops are on the Ukrainian border and Moscow still holds Ukrainian sailors it snatched in the Strait of Kerch last month. Institutions that sustain U.S. values are weaker, while Putin’s claim to being a regional and global decider via his undemocratic methods is stronger. We may never know the whole truth about Trump’s relationship with Russia. But this all raises an interesting question: to paraphrase Ronald Reagan (who pursued nuclear disarmament even as he prosecuted the Cold War relentlessly), is Putin better off than he was two years ago?
12.28.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 28, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Service, Spirit, and Longevity: Remembering Richard Overton Washington, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett released the following statement in remembrance of Austin veteran Richard Overton: “Saluting Richard Overton for his service, spirit, and longevity. One of the last of our World War II vets has passed away at 112. Pleased that he could share so many honors late in life including, here, getting the Healing Garden at our Veterans Clinic named in his honor. Joined by Mayor Adler, we shared a celebration of his life that he very much enjoyed.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
12.27.2018	SAN ANTONIO - Condolences are pouring in for longtime county commissioner Paul Elizondo, who passed away suddenly Thursday morning. Elizondo served on the Bexar County Commissioners Court for 32 years. “Paul was my dearest friend. Over 17 years, we forged a strong partnership on the commissioners court. His life’s work will leave a lasting impact on our community. I will miss him terribly.” - Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff "For over a generation, Paul Elizondo was an icon of the West Side and a force in Bexar County government and politics. His influence will be felt for decades to come. My thoughts and prayers are with his family during this difficult time." - Mayor Ron Nirenberg “Commissioner Elizondo’s passing is saddening to hear. He has been a friend and a mentor to many. His institutional wealth of knowledge of the county will be sorely missed, along with his antidote of humor and wittiness, that I will miss the most.” - Commissioner Sergio “Chico” Rodriguez “A life lived in the service of others is a life well lived. Nobody personified that more than Commissioner Paul Elizondo. His career in the military, as an educator, and as an elected official spanned decades and placed service to his community before all else.” - Bexar County Sheriff Javier Salazar “Commissioner Paul Elizondo was a champion for our veterans, his constituents, and Bexar County. He was also a mentor and friend, and I will miss him very much.” - Commissioner Kevin Wolff “I want to ask everyone to please say a prayer for Commissioner Elizondo’s, family, friends, staff and community. As the dean of Commissioners Court his passing is a huge loss with over 60 years of public service from the time he was a Marine to today. His institutional knowledge is legendary and will be missed. I am comforted to know our last conversation was jovial as he told me about his days in the Texas Legislature. My sincerest condolences to the family and to his constituents who he so proudly served.” - Commissioner Tommy Calvert “On behalf of our 1,400 members and the leadership of the San Antonio Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, we extend our deepest sympathies to the family of Bexar County Commissioner Paul Elizondo, Precinct 2. We at the San Antonio Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, while at a loss for words, are proud of Commissioner Elizondo’s legacy of service, not just in Precinct 2, but in Bexar County and beyond as a leader and champion for education, healthcare, environment and natural resources, veterans, and business growth and retention. He was a fighter for what he believed in, such as equity in service and providing the opportunities for community betterment. Semper Fi, Commissioner. We salute you.” - San Antonio Hispanic Chamber of Commerce’s Statement “Commissioner Paul Elizondo was my mentor and friend. His wealth of knowledge about the County and the inner workings of government were invaluable to me. I will miss his passion, dedication, and most of all, his friendship.” - County Manager David Smith “With a long life of commitment to Bexar County families, Paul earned having his name inscribed on the Justice Center Tower. He combined the feisty toughness of a Marine vet, the insights of a teacher, and the good humor and joy of a sax player in his legendary orchestra. As a personal friend since our work together decades ago in the Texas Legislature, I am saddened by his sudden passing. Let's remember Paul by renewing our own commitment to continue building a community that advances opportunity for all.” - U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-35th District) “I am deeply saddened at the passing of County Commissioner Paul Elizondo, he was a pillar of San Antonio's Westside community and a steadfast advocate for our City and our County. He was a personal friend, an icon of San Antonio politics and a guiding presence during our City and County's recent economic surge. His passing is untimely, as he and I were actively working on several District 5 initiatives such as the West Commerce Street Gateway and opioid crises intervention. There are many people in our community who will fondly remember him and his orchestra playing at their wedding receptions or daughter's quinceanera. Our most heartfelt condolences go out to the Elizondo family. We will all do well to remember and emulate his true and dedicated service to our community. I will miss him greatly.” - District 5 City Councilwoman Shirley Gonzales “My thoughts and prayers are with the family, friends and constituents of Paul Elizondo during this difficult time. Today, the city of San Antonio and Bexar County has lost a true leader. He leaves behind a legacy of music, military service and will be always remembered as an exemplary public servant throughout his 32 years of service as Bexar County Commissioner.” - District 3 City Councilwoman Rebecca J. Viagran My deepest condolences go out to the Elizondo family during this time. San Antonio has lost a deeply caring and thoughtful individual in County Commissioner Paul Elizondo. I am grateful to Commissioner Elizondo for his help on many issues; his extensive military and public service record; but above all, I am grateful for his friendship. Commissioner Elizondo's legacy will live on, and continue to have a positive impact on the residents of San Antonio for generations to come. - District 1 City Councilman Roberto Trevino “My deepest condolonces go out to the family of Commissioner Paul Elizondo during this difficult time. Commissioner Elizondo has been a force in Bexar County government and our community for decades and his impact and knowledge will be sorely missed. His legacy will live on for generations through his family and his countless accomplishments across Bexar County. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and colleagues as they celebrate his life and his legacy.” - District 6 City Councilman Greg Brockhouse “Today our community lost an icon with the passing of Commissioner Paul Elizondo. He was a true public servant who embodied a passion for the continued prosperity of our community. Thoughts and prayers are with his family during this difficult time. The San Antonio Public Library has a longstanding relationship with Bexar County through an Interlocal agreement to provide library services to all county residents.” - San Antonio Library Board of Trustees Chair Paul Stah
12.27.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 27, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Statement on the Passing of Bexar County Commissioner Paul Elizondo Washington, D.C. — Congressman Lloyd Doggett released the following statement in reaction to the sudden passing of Bexar County Commissioner Paul Elizondo today: “With a long life of commitment to Bexar County families, Paul earned having his name inscribed on the Justice Center Tower. He combined the feisty toughness of a Marine vet, the insights of a teacher, and the good humor and joy of a sax player in his legendary orchestra. As a personal friend since our work together decades ago in the Texas Legislature, I am saddened by his sudden passing. Let’s remember Paul by renewing our own commitment to continue building a community that advances opportunity for all.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
12.27.2018	AUSTIN (KXAN) — Shortly after the news of World War II veteran Richard Overton's death, condolences and memories came pouring in from around Texas and the nation. Overton's cousin, Volma Overton Jr., said the family will miss the funny 112-year-old and that his memory will keep them going. "We are truly blessed for everyone who has shown support and prayers, everyone who was encouraging to him and our family," Volma Overton Jr. said. "We are so thankful." People gathered at a mural on 12th and Chicon Streets that depicts Overton. They sang songs in his honor and did two his favorite things: drank whiskey and smoked cigars. Gov. Greg Abbott called Richard Overton an "American icon and a Texas legend," in a statement. "With his quick wit and kind spirit he touched the lives of so many, and I am deeply honored to have known him," Abbott wrote. "Richard Overton made us proud to be Texans and proud to be Americans. We can never repay Richard Overton for his service to our nation and for his lasting impact on the Lone Star State." People, including Rep. Lloyd Doggett, shared photos of the veteran and remembered his "service, spirit and longevity. Sen. John Cornyn simply said "A life well lived." Rep. Roger Williams said he had the honor of knowing Overton well and will miss him dearly. "Sitting on his porch and listening to him tell stories are memories I will never forget," Williams wrote. "I am thankful for his service to our country, and I am eternally grateful to have had him in my life as a friend and role model." Rep. Will Hurd shared a quote of Overton's that said "You don’t know when you get here. You don’t know when you go. It’s in God’s hands.” Hurd added that "Our words will never be enough to fully show our gratitude for your selfless service. Fair winds and following seas, my friend." A Twitter account called EverythingTX shared a picture of the born-and-raised Texan smoking his signature cigar that he claimed helped him live a long life.
12.27.2018	SAN ANTONIO (KTSA News) — Bexar County commissioner Paul Elizondo died Thursday. No word on the cause of his death, though he died at his home. “For over a generation, Paul Elizondo was an icon of the West Side and a force in Bexar County government and politics,” San Antonio mayor Ron Nirenberg said in a statement Thursday. “His influence will be felt for decades to come. My thoughts and prayers are with his family during this difficult time.” “My deepest condolences go out to the Elizondo family during this time. San Antonio has lost a deeply caring and thoughtful individual in County Commissioner Paul Elizondo,” councilman Roberto Trevino. “I am grateful to Commissioner Elizondo for his help on many issues; his extensive military and public service record; but above all, I am grateful for his friendship. Commissioner Elizondo’s legacy will live on, and continue to have a positive impact on the residents of San Antonio for generations to come.” “A life lived in the service of others is a life well lived,” Bexar County sheriff Javier Salazar said in a statement. “Nobody personified that more than Commissioner Paul Elizondo. His career in the military, as an educator, and as an elected official spanned decades and placed service to his community before all else.” “The San Antonio business community is saddened by the news of Bexar County Commissioner Paul Elizondo’s passing. Over his 36 years of dedicated public service, Commissioner Elizondo has been a champion of the underserved in our county and city,” San Antonio Chamber of Commerce president and CEO Richard Perez said. “Improving the quality and accessibility of healthcare for the most needy, addressing the most endemic flooding issue throughout the county, and preserving our rich heritage were but a few of the many vital projects Commissioner Elizondo shepherded through to completion. The University Health System expansion, the Alameda Theater renovation, and countless flood-control projects are a reality as a result of his commitment to the citizens of Bexar County. The business community will, in particular, miss his budgeting knowledge and focus on fiscal discipline. His impact on our community is deep, and we will miss his good work, his support, and his friendship.” “With a long life of commitment to Bexar County families, Paul earned having his name inscribed on the Justice Center Tower,” Rep. Lloyd Doggett said in a statement. “He combined the feisty toughness of a Marine vet, the insights of a teacher, and the good humor and joy of a sax player in his legendary orchestra. As a personal friend since our work together decades ago in the Texas Legislature, I am saddened by his sudden passing. Let’s remember Paul by renewing our own commitment to continue building a community that advances opportunity for all.” Elizondo was 83.
12.24.2018	Video of MSNBC: Rep. Doggett’s Interview with Ali Velshi on #TrumpShutdown and U.S. Involvement in Yemen
12.24.2018	Video of KXAN: Rep. Doggett on the Trump Shutdown
12.23.2018	Video of MSNBC: Rep. Doggett&amp;#039;s Interview with Richard Lui on the #TrumpShutdown and Dreamers
12.22.2018	Video of MSNBC: My interview with Alex Witt on the #TrumpShutdown
12.21.2018	The Kremlin is awash with Christmas gifts from Washington, D.C. and every move by the Trump administration seems to add to that perception. On Wednesday, appearing on the Russian state TV show “The Evening with Vladimir Soloviev,” Director of the Moscow-based Center for Middle Eastern and Central Asian Studies Semyon Bagdasarov said that the U.S. Secretary of Defense James Mattis is “struggling to keep up” with the flurry of unexpected decisions by the U.S. President Donald Trump. The news that Mattis decided to step down sent shock waves across the world, being interpreted as “a dangerous signal” by America’s allies. Meanwhile, the Mattis departure is being cheered in Russia. Konstantin Kosachev, head of the Foreign Affairs Committee in the Upper House of the Russian Parliament, has said that “the departure of James Mattis is a positive signal for Russia, since Mattis was far more hawkish on Russia and China than Donald Trump.” Kosachev opined that Trump apparently considered his own agenda in dealing with Russia, China and America’s allies to be "more important than keeping James Mattis at his post," concluding: "That’s an interesting signal, and a more positive one” for Russia. Jubilation was even more apparent on Russia’s state television, which adheres closely to the Kremlin’s point of view. The host of the Russian state TV show “60 Minutes,” Olga Skabeeva asserted: “Secretary of Defense Mattis didn’t want to leave Syria, so Trump fired him. They are leaving Syria.” President Trump’s press secretary, Sarah Sanders, remarked: “The idea that Putin is happy about this [Trump's decision to withdraw US forces from Syria] is ridiculous. It puts them at a greater risk, so I think that's just silly.” To the contrary, the idea of an American withdrawal from Syria is being widely perceived in Russia as “a total dream come true” if it truly takes place. State TV host Olga Skabeeva surmised that Americans are “losers, since Putin has defeated them in every way.” With a theatrical sigh, her co-host, Evgeny Popov, added: “Trump is ours again—what are you going to do?” Every member of the sizeable audience enthusiastically clapped. While these statements are decidedly sarcastic, Russian opinion makers recount the Kremlin’s victories with unmistakable glee. Popov smirked: “It seems to Americans that we won on every front: the U.S. Secretary of Defense has been removed, we unquestionably secured a complete, unconditional victory in Syria.” Skabeeva chimed in: “They’re also planning to leave Afghanistan.” Popov pointed out: “On top of that, Rusal sanctions have been lifted with Trump’s hands.” Panelists of the show, including Russian lawmakers, couldn’t hide their satisfied grins. The reference was to the announcement that Trump’s Treasury Department intends to lift sanctions against the business empire of Oleg V. Deripaska, one of Russia’s most influential oligarchs, sanctioned for Russian interference in the U.S. elections. Texas Representative Lloyd Doggett told The New York Times that the move to lift Rusal sanctions amounted to Trump “sliding another big gift under Vladimir Putin’s Christmas tree.” The gesture is certainly being interpreted that way in Russia. Deripaska’s attorneys are reportedly mounting an aggressive campaign to pursue the removal of personal sanctions from the Putin-linked oligarch as well. Discussing the planned departure of the U.S. from Syria, state TV host Olga Skabeeva pondered why Trump suddenly decided to leave at this point in time: “Americans say, it’s because he is beholden to Putin. Is that logical? Yes, it is.”
12.20.2018	UNITED STATES CONGRESS For Immediate Release December 20, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery (202) 225-4865 Joint Statement: Speaker Ryan Continues to Block Crucial Yemen Vote—And American Bombs Keep Falling Washington, D.C. — Congressmembers Lloyd Doggett, Barbara Lee, Jim McGovern, Ro Khanna, Mark Pocan, Tulsi Gabbard, and Peter Welch today called on Speaker Ryan to end his blockade on a crucial Yemen vote—the resolution passed in the Senate with a bipartisan majority. Together, they released the following statement: “We urge Speaker Paul Ryan to end his blockade on behalf of President Trump and allow the House to vote on what has already been approved in the Senate by a bipartisan vote of 56 to 41: a resolution to withdraw U.S. support for Saudi forces in the bloody war in Yemen. If Speaker Ryan will not heed our voices or those of his Republican Senate colleagues, we hope that in this holiday season he will at least heed the voice of the suffering. The U.N. recently estimated that every 10 minutes, a child dies in Yemen. When the American-backed Saudi coalition attacked a school bus, killing 40 little children, scrawled across the bomb were markings showing that it was made in America. Let’s stop America’s role in what is currently the world’s worst humanitarian crisis; Republican leadership must let the House vote to end U.S. involvement. To stop the suffering from increasing, permit a vote to stop American bombs from falling.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
12.20.2018	Last year, the Trump administration abruptly cut federal funding to the Obama-era Teen Pregnancy Prevention Program, choosing instead to favor programs that promote abstinence. This week, NBC News reported that several Democratic senators have accused Trump of violating court orders by pushing abstinence research, citing a federal judge's ruling that the administration's funding cuts were unlawful. On Wednesday, Democratic Sens. Patty Murray, Tammy Baldwin, Cory Booker, and Mazie Hirono sent a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar, in which they expressed their concern that the Trump administration was violating a court order by shifting funding from pregnancy prevention programs to abstinence initiatives. In the letter, which Bustle has obtained, the senators suggested that the administration was using a third-party contractor to shift federal funds. "By attempting to direct funding in accordance with ideological goals, rather than towards the development of evidence-based practices, the Trump-Pence Administration is undoing years of progress towards supporting adolescent sexual and reproductive health and wellbeing," the letter stated. Earlier this year, federal courts ruled that the Trump administration had violated the law when it allowed abstinence-only organizations to apply for federal funds specifically designated for the Teen Pregnancy Prevention Program, according to Vice. However, shortly after these rulings, HHS awarded $21.5 million in federal funding to MITRE Corporation to perform a "Teen Pregnancy Prevention Study," according to NBC News. Details about this specific study have not been made public, per the New York Daily News, but MITRE has studied “sexual risk avoidance education" for HHS in the past, prompting Democratic senators to argue that the Trump administration is violating court orders by continuing to fund abstinence-focused research. Democratic senators were not the only ones concerned; in the House, California Rep. Barbara Lee organized a similar letter to Azar, alongside her fellow Democrats Lloyd Doggett, Michelle Lujan Grisham, Ted Deutch, Pramila Jayapal, and Marc Veasey. In the letter, which Bustle has also obtained, these Democratic representatives echoed the concerns of their colleagues in the Senate, arguing that the Trump administration was trying to "undermine the evidence based Teen Pregnancy Prevention Program." "The TPPP is making a vital contribution to building a body of knowledge of what best supports adolescents to prevent unintended pregnancy, at a time when there is growing bipartisan commitment to evidence-based policymaking," the representatives wrote. According to NBC News, the Trump administration's decision to redirect federal funding to abstinence-programs was guided by officials who have championed abstinence. One of these officials is Valerie Huber, who last year became the chief of staff to the Department of Health and Human Services official who oversees adolescent health, per The New York Times. Prior to assuming this position, Huber led an abstinence education advocacy organization, and argued that the Teen Pregnancy Prevention Program "normalizes teen sex." In a report published earlier this year, the Guttmacher Institute argued that the Trump administration has been misrepresenting evidence in its promotion of abstinence. The Trump administration's approach to the issue of teen pregnancy represents a significant shift from that of the Obama administration, the Guttmacher Institute wrote, especially in its assertion that abstinence is an “optimal health outcome” for Title X clients. Democrats' warnings about the Trump administration's reallocation of federal funding to abstinence programs make similar arguments. Democrats in both the House and Senate have told Azar that Trump is trying to shift away from an evidence-based approach to pregnancy prevention programs, even after federal judges have ordered him not to do so.
12.19.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 19, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Rusal Ruse: Doggett on Trump Admin Lifting Sanctions on Russian Aluminum Producer Washington, D.C. — Congressman Lloyd Doggett released the following statement in reaction to the Trump Administration lifting sanctions on Rusal, a company controlled by sanctioned Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska. Rep. Doggett previously uncovered that the Trump Administration granted a tariff exemption to Rusal USA. “President Trump is sliding another big gift under Vladimir Putin’s Christmas Tree: lifting sanctions on Russian aluminum producer Rusal. Administration endorsement of what appears to be a shell game brokered by a sanctioned Russian bank, VTB Bank, involving one of Putin’s closest buddies, Oleg Deripaska, only encourages Putin to pursue his destabilizing activities around the world. If, after Congressional review, this is what it appears—a Rusal ruse—then we should reject this latest Trump scam.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
12.19.2018	WASHINGTON — The Trump administration announced on Wednesday that it intends to lift sanctions against the business empire of Oleg V. Deripaska, one of Russia’s most influential oligarchs, after an aggressive lobbying campaign by Mr. Deripaska’s companies. The decision by the Treasury Department, which had been postponed for months, was both politically and economically sensitive, and drew criticism from some Democrats and foreign policy analysts that the administration was sending the wrong signal to Moscow about its conduct toward its neighbors and the United States. The companies are among the biggest in the aluminum industry, and questions about their fate had roiled global metals markets. And Mr. Deripaska’s stature in Russia made any decision seen to be in his favor tricky for the administration at a time when President Trump is under investigation by the special counsel in connection with Russian interference in the 2016 election. Mr. Deripaska and his businesses — including the world’s second-largest aluminum company, Rusal — were hit with sanctions in April in retaliation for Russian interference in the election and other hostile acts by Moscow. The companies responded with a sophisticated multimillion-dollar lobbying and legal campaign seeking to delay and ultimately remove the sanctions in exchange for promises from Mr. Deripaska to give up majority ownership and control of EN+, the holding company that controls Rusal. The lobbying effort had cast the sanctions as having unintended ripple effects on companies in the United States, Ireland, Sweden, Jamaica, Guinea and elsewhere, with potential job losses and other negative economic impacts. Andrea M. Gacki, the director of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, cited those economic effects in a letter notifying congressional leaders of the administration’s intent to lift the sanctions against EN+, Rusal and a third Deripaska company, JSC EuroSibEnergo. Ms. Gacki said Mr. Deripaska himself would remain on the sanctions list. As long as that was the case, she said, Mr. Deripaska would be unable to gain access to the proceeds from selling off his shares to reduce his stake. Ms. Gacki said Mr. Deripaska and his companies “have agreed to undertake significant restructuring and corporate governance changes to address the circumstances that led to their designation.” The changes would include reducing his stake in the companies to below 50 percent and overhauling their boards, including ensuring that half of EN+’s directors will be United States or British citizens. Unless Congress tries to block the move by passing a joint resolution of disapproval within 30 days — an unlikely outcome given the impending end of the congressional session and the swearing-in of a new Congress next month — the sanctions will automatically be lifted. Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat who has criticized the administration for being soft on Rusal, said the move to lift sanctions amounted to Mr. Trump “sliding another big gift under Vladimir Putin’s Christmas tree,” referring to the Russian president. Saying that the plan “appears to be a shell game brokered by a sanctioned Russian bank, VTB Bank, involving one of Putin’s closest buddies, Oleg Deripaska,” Mr. Doggett said it “only encourages Putin to pursue his destabilizing activities around the world.” He called for a rigorous congressional review of the deal, and said that if it “is what it appears — a Rusal ruse — then we should reject this latest Trump scam.” The administration appeared to take pains to head off criticism that it was letting up on Moscow or Mr. Deripaska. The decision was disclosed on the same day that the Treasury Department announced new sanctions against a former Russian military intelligence officer who it said works for Mr. Deripaska, as well as several Russian intelligence officers and entities linked to Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election. Regardless of the concessions from Mr. Deripaska and the new sanctions, David Merkel, who worked on Russia-related issues in President George W. Bush’s White House and State Department, said lifting sanctions against Mr. Deripaska’s companies “sends the wrong signal.” Noting that the moves came less than a month after Russia seized three small Ukrainian naval vessels and 23 sailors in a shared waterway, Mr. Merkel said that “the timing is unfortunate, because this will be seen as walking back sanctions on someone who is close to Putin.” In a statement justifying the move, Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, said that the companies had been punished because of Mr. Deripaska’s ownership and control, “not for the conduct of the companies themselves.” The Treasury Department said it had reached a “binding agreement” with Mr. Deripaska’s companies after eight months of “detailed negotiations” with lawyers and other representatives from the companies. The team was led by Gregory Barker, a British lord who was appointed last year as chairman of EN+. He retained lobbyists with ties to the Trump administration as well as law firms and public relations experts to make the case that Mr. Deripaska was truly committed to giving up control of his companies, and was not merely staging a sham divestiture, as some critics suspected. Under the deal, which is subject to continued monitoring, Mr. Deripaska will reduce his stake in EN+ to less than 45 percent from approximately 70 percent. Any proceeds from stock sales or future dividends from his remaining stock “will be placed into a blocked account,” to which Mr. Deripaska will not have access, according to Ms. Gacki’s letter. Ms. Gacki indicated that Mr. Deripaska’s stake in EN+ would be further reduced through a donation of some shares to an unspecified charitable foundation and by allowing some shares to be controlled by VTB Bank, which is controlled by the Kremlin and subject to United States sanctions — raising red flags for skeptics. “I’m uncomfortable that this leaves open the possibility of ownership being moved to Russia at some point,” Mr. Merkel said. Peter Harrell, who worked on sanctions issues in the State Department during the Obama administration, said the agreement looked like a “classic compromise.” But he said it might have been born out of the initial approach by the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, which oversees sanctions. “I think OFAC had not understood that sanctioning Rusal was going to increase global aluminum prices by 20 percent over two weeks, and that put them very much in a mood to make a deal to keep Deripaska sanctioned while getting Rusal out from sanctions,” he said. During the negotiations, Mr. Mnuchin had signaled a willingness to make such a deal in the interests of stabilizing the aluminum market, and Mr. Harrell said “that gave Deripaska some leverage.” Mr. Harrell said Mr. Deripaska was “playing the long game” and may ultimately recoup some of his short-term losses. “On the one hand, he has lost some cash as a result of these transactions, and he has to reduce his holdings in his companies,” Mr. Harrell said. “On the other hand, he gets to hold on to 45 percent of the companies, and he’ll be able to get good value for that stake and those dividends in three years or five years or whenever Deripaska is able to get of the sanctions list himself.” Mr. Deripaska’s representatives are planning to mount a push to get the sanctions lifted on him, according to people familiar with his plans.
12.19.2018	FRANKFURT — The Americans accused the Chinese of being modern-day mercantilists who steal intellectual property. The Europeans accused the Americans of provoking a crisis in the world trading system, threatening the global economy. And the Chinese invoked Spider-Man. Unlike Spidey, the Chinese emissary said, America is not using its superpowers with great responsibility. The trash-talking by otherwise restrained diplomats took place at a normally dull occasion: a review of American trade policies at the World Trade Organization in Geneva. The reviews, held every two years, usually attract only lower-ranking diplomats. They are intended to allow W.T.O. members to explain their trade policies and for other members to comment and ask questions. But in an age of severe trade tensions, countries sent full-fledged ambassadors and the sessions, which were held on Monday and Wednesday, became a venue for allies and adversaries alike to vent their anger at American policies they said were illegal and destructive. The debate provided another example of the way the Trump administration’s confrontational approach to international diplomacy has altered the rules of engagement at international institutions like the W.T.O. The niceties of protocol are eroding and the language has become more blunt. “The multilateral trading system is in a deep crisis and the United States is at its epicenter,” Marc Vanheukelen, the European Union’s ambassador to the W.T.O., said Monday, the first of two days of debate about United States policies. He was one of more than 60 diplomats who expressed views, often critical. The United States, by contrast, tried to turn the discussions into a platform to attack China and what the American emissary, Dennis Shea, said was exploitation of W.T.O. rules in a quest for economic hegemony. “China will force technology transfer, and outright steal it when it sees fit,” Mr. Shea, the deputy United States trade representative, said at Wednesday’s session. “China will subsidize and maintain excess capacity in multiple industries, forcing producers in other economies to shut down. China will dump its products on our markets, claiming that all is O.K. because our consumers pay a bit less.” The European Union and other allies generally agree with the White House’s criticisms of China. But they disagree with the President Trump’s strong-arm tactics, such as tariffs to pressure China. They have expressed fear that the Trump administration is fomenting a new Cold War with China that will force them to take sides. Many countries in Europe, Asia and Africa depend on trade with both the United States and China. The tensions between the two countries show no signs of easing. Top advisers to Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, briefed Congress on Tuesday afternoon about the state of the trade talks with China and left staff with the sense that the negotiations were in disarray. Congressional aides said after the briefing that they were not optimistic about the prospects of reaching a significant deal by March 2, the new date for proposed increases in United States tariffs on China. One aide said that the trade officials, Stephen P. Vaughn, the general counsel of the trade representative’s office, and Jeffrey D. Gerrish, Mr. Lighthizer’s deputy, suggested that the tariffs that the United States had imposed on China would not be rolled back even if an agreement was struck by the deadline. The officials were also unsure about how they would even enforce the concessions that they were pressing China to make. “The Trump-induced whiplash on China has left more questions than answers,” said Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat who serves on the House Ways and Means Committee. “One day, he’s ‘Tariff Man,’ and the next, it’s ‘Let’s Make a Deal.’ Congress must get answers from this administration on what success looks like.” In a plenary hall at W.T.O. headquarters on the shores of Lake Geneva this week, the global stresses were on view. The talks were closed to the public, but the United States and other countries made texts of their speeches available. Under Mr. Shea, who also serves as the American permanent representative to the W.T.O., the United States has expressed its views in unvarnished language that has shocked other diplomats at times but is very much in line with Mr. Trump’s view that America is getting a raw deal on global markets. “For too long, the rules of global trade have been tilted against U.S. workers and businesses,” the United States government said in a report it submitted as part of the trade policy review. Critics accuse the United States of trying to undermine rules of trade it largely wrote, creating a free-for-all that would undercut global growth. American leadership in matters of trade “has driven much of the phenomenal growth of prosperity across the world over the last decades,” said Mr. Vanheukelen, the European Union ambassador. “In deciding to use tariffs as a central plank of its new trade policy, and in suggesting that trade wars can have winners, the U.S. is putting these achievements at risk.” The United States view is that the W.T.O. has lost its way, though it is unclear what changes the administration wants. “We must recognize that the W.T.O. that we helped create, and the W.T.O. we seek, is in key respects not the W.T.O. we have today,” Mr. Shea said. If nothing else, the Trump administration has focused media attention on an organization that has long been crucial to the functioning of world trade but rarely generated headlines. But numerous speakers in Geneva argued that Mr. Trump’s trade policies threaten to undermine global trade and isolate the United States. “The U.S. is today not the most popular member in Geneva,” J.S. Deepak, the Indian ambassador to the W.T.O., said Wednesday. The United States was once the leading advocate of a trading system that operates according to rules, Mr. Deepak said. Now, he said, its behavior “could sound the death knell of the W.T.O. as we know it today.” China is already trying to exploit the United States’ isolation on trade issues, portraying itself as the voice of reason. Zhang Xiangchen, the Chinese ambassador to the W.T.O., noted during his speech Monday the recent death of Stan Lee, a central player in the creation of Spider-Man and many other Marvel characters. “This is a great loss for all fans of comic movies around the world,” Mr. Zhang said, sounding not at all like the stereotype of a Communist Party functionary. Mr. Zhang then turned his homage to Mr. Lee into an attack on the United States. “What impressed me most is not Spider-Man’s superhuman abilities,” Mr. Zhang said, “but rather this line from the movie: ‘With great power comes great responsibility.’” In the last year, Mr. Zhang said, the world is witnessing “a different America with severe mismatched power and responsibility.”
12.17.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 17, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Gentle, Forceful Voice for Progress: Remembering Gus Garcia Austin, T.X. — Congressman Lloyd Doggett released the following statement in reaction to the passing of his longtime friend, former Mayor Gus Garcia: “For decades, Gus and Marina have been a great team for our community. Gus provided a gentle but forceful voice for public education, equal opportunity, the environment, and active participation by Hispanics in public decision-making and every aspect of our community. We have shared innumerable strategy sessions, press events, rallies, pachangas, and celebrations of progress, while always seeking to accomplish more. He has been my longtime friend, advisor, and, for many years, my personal accountant. We can best salute Gus’s valued legacy by continuing to work for an inclusive, just community that lives up to his vision of what our city can be.” Congressman Doggett, former Mayor Gus Garcia, Ambassador Rosalba Ojeda, former Consul General of Mexico in Austin, and State Representatives Rodriquez and Naishtat at a 2013 celebration hosted by the Fiesta de Independencia Foundation, which Gus founded. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
12.17.2018	Tributes are accumulating upon the passing Gustavo “Gus” Garcia, who fought for civil rights and blazed a trail for Hispanic public officials in Austin. Garcia was Austin’s first elected Hispanic mayor (2001-2003), after serving nine years as a City Council member, and was also the first Hispanic Austin ISD trustee and board president. As the news of his passing moves across the city, personal tributes on social media note his honesty, strength, fortitude, and passion. One of the briefest and most eloquent, from attorney and activist Lulu Flores: “Rest in peace Gus Garcia … Your legacy lives on. Gracias por todo.” Longtime political ally, fellow fighter, and friend, Sen. Gonzalo Barrientos said he’d gotten the word early Monday of Garcia’s passing. “I didn’t expect it – but when do you expect anything in this life?” he said. Barrientos had a “soft exterior but a hard core.” “For those of us who had come from that era,” Barrientos continued, “if you happened to be a Mexican-American, there were many obstacles to success. Gus dealt with all those obstacles, and came to a point of serving the entire community. Some leaders find it hard to make that transition, but Gus was a professional, and a leader for the whole community.” Barrientos recalled fighting alongside Garcia for representation at Austin ISD, and later to create and support Austin Community College. Barrientos said that perhaps his friend’s training as a CPA led him to a certain kind of precision in politics. “He was always looking for an exact solution, the best solution for a specific problem.” With a laugh, Barrientos also remembered, in the early days, calling on Garcia to prepare his taxes – “All those numbers … I told him, Gus, let’s pay the taxes, but not overpay them.” Other notable tributes on Twitter: Mayor Steve Adler: “We feel a community-wide heavy heart as one of our greatest Austin giants moves on. Mayor Garcia focused our city as no one had setting us on a course to seek equity and justice for all of Austin. I will miss my friend and teacher.” U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett: “For decades, Gus and Marina have been a great team for our community. Gus Garcia provided a gentle but forceful voice for public education, equal opportunity, the environment, and active participation by Hispanics in public decision-making and every aspect of our community.” Former Council member Mike Martinez: “Like everyone else, i'm truly saddened to hear the news of the passing of Mayor Gus Garcia. He was a legend among legends. I will forever be grateful for his counsel and advice … but most for his friendship. RIP Mayor. Austin is better today, because of you.” Sen. Kirk Watson: “We've lost a very special man with the passing of Mayor Gus Garcia. He built bridges in our community with a huge heart and a dedication to the people he served. I loved him & learned from him.” For more on the late Gus Garcia, follow the Daily News and this week’s print edition.
12.17.2018	Gustavo "Gus" Garcia, a former Austin school board trustee, City Council member and the first elected Hispanic mayor of Austin, died early Monday surrounded by his family. He was 84. At a memorial service at the Gus Garcia Young Men's Leadership Academy, Mayor Steve Adler remembered Garcia's years of service to Austin. "He really was one of our civic giants," Adler said. "He brought equity and access issues to the forefront. And then in my entire term, he has been a real close friend and a mentor." “We will forever say the last three lines of our creed with so much power,” the school's principal, Sterlin McGruder, said. Ten students wearing the school’s uniform then recited in unison: “I look good. I feel good. I am a Gus Garcia man.'' Superintendent Paul Cruz asked that all AISD schools lower their flags to half-staff. He said Garcia had a lot of pride: "Pride in the work that he was doing. Pride in his family." Born in Zapata in 1934, Garcia later moved with his family to Laredo. He attended Laredo Junior College before flunking out and eventually joining the U.S. Army in 1954. He went back to Laredo Junior College after a two-year stint in the military and then enrolled at the University of Texas in 1957. He started his own accounting firm in Austin in 1965. Garcia was elected to the Austin Independent School District Board of Trustees in 1972, later serving as the board's president for a year in 1977. He was the first Hispanic trustee elected to the board. His legacy with the district was cemented in 2007, when the district named a middle school after him. Garcia was elected to the Austin City Council in 1991, narrowly eking out a win in a runoff election with 50.83 percent of the vote. He was re-elected to council in 1993 and 1997. Then in 2001, he became Austin’s first Hispanic mayor, serving until 2003. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, who said Garcia was his personal accountant for several years, called him a "gentle but forceful voice for public education." "We can best salute Gus’s valued legacy by continuing to work for an inclusive, just community that lives up to his vision of what our city can be," he said in a statement. In a 2012 interview with former AISD Trustee Paul Saldaña, Garcia said his life in politics was driven by a need for equity in Austin – particularly among Austin ISD students. Garcia recalled his former friend, Victor Ruiz, being surprised by his forcefulness on the Austin school board when meetings were broadcast on KUT – namely that Latino kids had "the same right as white kids to quality education." "I said, 'This is a democracy, Victor. We have to put our issues on the table so that everybody hears it and hears it loud and clear that we’re here asking that our children receive the same quality education — or whatever education necessary for them to have success in this country.'” [Ruiz] said, “Well, I just didn’t know that we were allowed to say those things.” Garcia told Saldaña, who worked in his office for 10 years, he was most proud of his work on the school board. There were "40 Mexican-American teachers when I started. When I left, there were 600." "It was all an effort to change the way things were being done here," Garcia said. "And I think if I look back and just sit back and look at it, I think it was very successful."
12.17.2018	AUSTIN, Texas — Former Austin Mayor Gustavo L. "Gus" Garcia has died at the age of 84. Former Mayor Gus Garcia passes away First elected in November 2001 Was Austin’s first elected Hispanic Mayor Garcia was first elected in 2001 after former Mayor Kirk Watson stepped down, making him the city's ﬁrst elected Hispanic mayor. He served as mayor until 2003. Previously, he spent 10 years on the Austin City Council. “Mayor Gus Garcia was an extraordinary public servant,” Austin City Manager Spencer Cronk said. "All of us should strive to emulate Mayor Garcia’s dedication to Austin.” In 1972, he was elected to the Austin ISD Board of Trustees, making him the ﬁrst Hispanic person to serve on the board. He served as board president from 1977 to 1978. Gus Garcia Middle School opened in 2007 and became the Gus Garcia Young Men's Leadership Academy in 2014, the district's all-boys middle school in East Austin. “Gus provided a gentle but forceful voice for public education, equal opportunity, the environment, and active participation by Hispanics in public decision-making and every aspect of our community," Rep. Lloyd Doggett said. "He has been my longtime friend, advisor, and, for many years, my personal accountant. We can best salute Gus’s valued legacy by continuing to work for an inclusive, just community that lives up to his vision of what our city can be.” Garcia graduated from The University of Texas at Austin, where he received an undergraduate degree in accounting in 1959. He is survived by his wife of more than 60 years, Marina Gonzalez, and by their three sons and five grandchildren.
12.15.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 15, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Congressman Doggett Reacts to Affordable Care Act Ruling in Texas Washington, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement in reaction to federal judge in Texas striking down the entire Affordable Care Act last night: “This horrendous ruling is the judicial equivalent of filling the stockings with lumps of coal. Millions of families—including those with pre-existing conditions—now face the uncertainties of print denials, inadequate coverage, exorbitant premiums, and lack of basic care. If not reversed on appeal, we must find a legislative way of preventing this Republican conspiracy from denying Americans health care.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
12.13.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 13, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Demanding House Action: Rep. Doggett on Passage of Historic Senate Yemen Resolution Washington, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement in reaction to the historic Senate vote to limit presidential war powers in Yemen: “This powerful vote, the Trump Administration’s disgraceful coverup for Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman—most recently by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo before the House today—and the daily deaths of more and more Yemeni children all demand action by the House. The Senate rejected the Administration’s claim that its activities in Yemen are not subject to the War Powers Act: The House must do the same. Even if he remains committed to being a Trump apologist, Speaker Ryan should complete his tenure by following the example of Senate Republicans to reverse course and permit a full and fair debate on similar resolutions next week.” And yesterday, as Republicans hid the provision to end House debate within a rule on the Farm Bill, Rep. Doggett gave a speech which you can watch here, with a short excerpt below: “What cruel irony—that this rule dealing, in part, with too much food in America may starve millions in Yemen. This rule today prohibits a fair debate and vote here, because Republican leaders know that so many members of both parties can no longer stomach the atrocities—atrocities that are supported by American tax dollars. They fear that a bipartisan majority of this House would reject what has become a wretched stain on our Nation. Last month, this same Trump enablers buried consideration of our resolution with a bill about gray wolves. Today, they bury Yemenis with a bill about American agricultural abundance. As Americans celebrate a joyous Christmas, the Trump Administration will continue writing the epitaph for the mass graves in Yemen. Let’s reject this rule today and put a stop to this egregious wrongdoing.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
12.13.2018	The Senate on Thursday delivered back-to-back rebukes of President Donald Trump's embrace of Saudi Arabia, first voting to end U.S. participation in the Saudi-led war in Yemen and then unanimously approving a measure blaming the kingdom's crown prince for the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. Together, the actions represent an unambiguous rejection of Trump's continued defense of Saudi leaders in the face of a CIA assessment that concluded that Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman most probably ordered and monitored Khashoggi's killing Oct. 2 inside the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul. The moves suggest a bipartisan majority of senators will pursue broader punitive measures when Congress regroups next year - including sanctions and a halt to weapons transfers - despite the administration's objections. "What we showed in this vote today is that Republicans and Democrats are ready to get back in the business of working with a president - and sometimes against a president - to set the foreign policy of this nation," said Sen. Chris Murphy, D-Conn., a longtime advocate for checking Saudi Arabia's regional expansion. "The United States has said, through the Senate, that our support for the Saudi coalition is no longer open-ended." The unanimous vote to hold Mohammed responsible for Khashoggi's killing reflects the extent to which senators in both parties have grown tired of Trump's continued defense of Mohammed's denials. It also puts significant pressure on leaders in the House - where the president's Saudi policy is far more divisive - to allow for a similar vote to condemn the crown prince before the end of the year. Earlier this week, House leaders maneuvered to block rank-and-file members from forcing a vote on any Yemen-related resolutions, an attempt to stop the Senate's effort to curtail U.S. involvement in the Saudis' military campaign by invoking the War Powers Resolution. Senators voted 56 to 41 on Thursday to support the Yemen resolution, put forward by Sens. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., and Mike Lee, R-Utah, after seven Republicans joined all Senate Democrats to back the measure. That figure strongly suggests a majority of the Republican-led Senate will challenge Trump on his Saudi policy next year, alongside a Democratic-led House, whose incoming leaders also have promised to be proactive about demanding changes to the status quo. "The current relationship with Saudi Arabia is not working for America," said Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., a Trump ally who, nonetheless, is a driving force behind several efforts to punish Saudi Arabia. He often refers to Mohammed as a "wrecking ball." Graham did not vote for the Yemen resolution Thursday, citing concerns about using the War Powers Resolution as a vehicle to call out Saudi Arabia, but he said resolutely this week that his past defense of the kingdom had come to an end. "I think you're wrong about what's going on up here," Graham said late Wednesday in comments directed toward Trump. "I'm never going to let this go until things change in Saudi Arabia." The Senate votes came as the two sides in the Yemen conflict agreed to a cease-fire in Hodeida, a port city that is key to the supply of humanitarian aid, and a prisoner swap that is expected to free thousands. While previous cease-fire agreements in the four-year civil war have crumbled, Thursday's agreement - following a week of peace talks in Sweden - has been heralded as an important sign of progress. It has been months since the United Nations declared Yemen to be the world's worst humanitarian crisis, and the situation has only worsened since, as a proxy battle deepens between U.S.-backed Arab nations and Iran, which supports the rebel Houthi government claiming authority in the country. International pressure has been building on the warring sides to take steps to end the conflict, and some senators said Thursday that the momentum surrounding their Yemen resolution played no small role in bringing about the cease-fire. "The concessions that were made by the Saudi side in the negotiations this morning would not have happened if it wasn't for the pressure the United States Senate put on those negotiations," Murphy said. But in the House, Yemen's peace talks have been an excuse for some lawmakers to seek a pause, to see how things play out before committing to a course of action. The Senate vote came just hours after Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis provided a closed briefing to House members. Republicans and Democrats emerged from the meeting urging very different responses to Saudi Arabia and its crown prince over the killing of Khashoggi, a Saudi national who was a Washington Post contributing columnist. "They have to be held responsible," Rep. Eliot Engel, D-N.Y., the incoming chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said after the briefing, referring to Mohammed and Saudi King Salman, though he did not back a specific means of holding them responsible. Meanwhile, there remain Republicans in the House who defend the crown prince. And even those who criticize him over Khashoggi's death said that while he should be rebuked, the punishment should stop there. "We recognize killing journalists is absolutely evil and despicable, but to completely realign our interests in the Middle East as a result of this, when for instance the Russians kill journalists . . . Turkey imprisons journalists?" said Rep. Adam Kinzinger, R-Ill. "It's not a sinless world out there." That stands in sharp contrast to the Senate, where several Republicans have been encouraging a broad response to Saudi Arabia over not just Khashoggi's killing and the Yemen war, but also the kingdom's blockade in Qatar, its detainment last year of Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri, and a slate of human rights abuses they say have compromised the U.S.-Saudi alliance. The House will not take up any such measures this year - not even the Senate-passed Yemen resolution. But leaders will still be under considerable pressure to allow members to vote on the measure condemning Mohammed for Khashoggi's killing before the end of the year. Trump has refused to condemn Mohammed for the killing. Pompeo has echoed Trump's stance in public interviews and behind closed doors as well, lawmakers said. "All we heard today was more disgraceful ducking and dodging by the secretary," Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas, said following Thursday's meeting. House leaders met with CIA Director Gina Haspel on Wednesday to hear the details of Khashoggi's slaying. They emerged offering few details about the briefing - or about what steps House Democrats would take, once they assume the majority in January, to pursue more punitive measures against Saudi Arabia, beyond holding hearings.
12.13.2018	Senators will vote Thursday on a resolution that would call on the U.S. to pull assistance from the Saudi-led war in Yemen, a measure that would rebuke Saudi Arabia after the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. The Senate is also expected to consider a separate resolution condemning the Saudi journalist’s killing as senators have wrestled with how to respond to it. U.S. intelligence officials have concluded that Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman must have at least known of the plot, but President Donald Trump has been reluctant to pin the blame and has continued to praise the kingdom. Senators voted 60-39 on Wednesday to open debate on the Yemen resolution, signaling there is enough support to win the 50 votes needed for approval. A vote was scheduled for early afternoon on several amendments and final passage. While enough Republicans support the resolution, which was sponsored by Republican Sen. Mike Lee of Utah and Independent Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont, Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and most other Republicans oppose it. “I think every single member of this body shares grave concerns about the murder of Khashoggi and wants accountability,” McConnell, R-Ky., said on the Senate floor Wednesday morning. “We also want to preserve a 70-year partnership between the United States and Saudi Arabia, and we want to ensure it continues to serve American interests and stabilizes a dangerous and critical region.” Senators have been enraged by Khashoggi’s October killing and the White House response, prompting several Republicans to support the Yemen resolution as a rebuke to the longtime ally. Others already had concerns about the war in Yemen, which human rights groups say is wreaking havoc on the country and subjecting civilians, many of them children, to deadly disease and indiscriminate bombing. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker, a Republican from Tennessee, is preparing the separate, alternate resolution condemning the journalist’s killing. McConnell urged senators to vote for Corker’s measure, which he said “does a good job capturing bipartisan concerns about both the war in Yemen and the behavior of our Saudi partners more broadly.” It appears unlikely that the House would be willing to consider the Yemen resolution. House leaders added a provision to an unrelated House rule that would make it harder for lawmakers there to call it up if the Senate passes it. The rule barely passed, 206-203, after Democrats railed against the Yemen provision. CIA Director Gina Haspel briefed House leaders on the Khashoggi slaying on Wednesday, and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis briefed the full House on Thursday. Pompeo and Mattis briefed the Senate last month and told senators there was “no direct reporting” or “smoking gun” to connect the crown prince to Khashoggi’s death at a Saudi consulate in Turkey. But a smaller group of senators leaving a separate briefing with Haspel days later said there was “zero chance” the crown prince wasn’t involved. House Republicans were less eager than their Senate counterparts to criticize Saudi Arabia and the Trump administration. House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, R-La., said after Thursday’s briefing that he was waiting to see the outcome of the administration’s ongoing investigation. Scalise said there had been “discussions” about action before the end of the year but wouldn’t say if GOP leaders would consider Corker’s resolution if it passes the Senate House Democrats sharply criticized the Trump administration. “All we had today was more disgraceful ducking and dodging,” Texas Rep. Lloyd Doggett said of the briefing. “I could have spent the time watching the cable news and learned more.” Khashoggi, who had lived in the U.S. and wrote for The Washington Post, had been critical of the Saudi regime. He was killed in what U.S. officials have described as an elaborate plot as he visited the consulate in Istanbul for marriage paperwork. Saudi prosecutors have said a 15-man team sent to Istanbul killed Khashoggi with tranquilizers and then dismembered his body, which has not been found. Those findings came after Saudi authorities spent weeks denying Khashoggi had been killed in the consulate. Pressed on a response to the slaying, Trump has been reluctant to condemn the crown prince. He said the United States “intends to remain a steadfast partner” of the country, touted Saudi arms deals worth billions of dollars to the U.S. and thanked the country for plunging oil prices. Whatever is passed this month, lawmakers in both chambers have signaled that they will continue to press Saudi Arabia next year. The top Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee, Sen. Bob Menendez of New Jersey, is pushing tough legislation with a growing bipartisan group of senators that would halt arms sales and impose sanctions, to send what he called a “global message” to not just the Saudis but also to other regimes. “Just because you’re our ally, you can’t kill with impunity,” Menendez said. “The current relationship with Saudi Arabia is not working,” said Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., who supports Menendez’s measure and is expected to become chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. “You’re never going to have a relationship with the United States Senate unless things change.” California Rep. Adam Schiff, who is expected to become chairman of the House intelligence committee next year, said he intends to lead a “deep dive” into Saudi Arabia and Yemen. Democratic Rep. Eliot Engel of New York, the likely incoming chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said he would hold hearings on Saudi Arabia. The Senate debate came as the United Nations secretary general on Thursday announced that Yemen’s warring sides have agreed to a province-wide cease-fire and withdrawal of troops in Hodeida, a contested Red Sea port city. The brutal four-year-old civil war pits the internationally recognized Yemeni government, supported by a Saudi-led coalition, against the Iran-backed rebels known as Houthis.
12.13.2018	Senators will vote Thursday on a resolution that would call on the U.S. to pull assistance from the Saudi-led war in Yemen, a measure that would rebuke Saudi Arabia after the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. The Senate is also expected to consider a separate resolution condemning the Saudi journalist's killing as senators have wrestled with how to respond to it. U.S. intelligence officials have concluded that Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman must have at least known of the plot, but President Donald Trump has been reluctant to pin the blame and has continued to praise the kingdom. Senators voted 60-39 on Wednesday to open debate on the Yemen resolution, signaling there is enough support to win the 50 votes needed for approval. A vote was scheduled for early afternoon on several amendments and final passage. While enough Republicans support the resolution, which was sponsored by Republican Sen. Mike Lee of Utah and Independent Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont, Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and most other Republicans oppose it. "I think every single member of this body shares grave concerns about the murder of Khashoggi and wants accountability," McConnell, R-Ky., said on the Senate floor Wednesday morning. "We also want to preserve a 70-year partnership between the United States and Saudi Arabia, and we want to ensure it continues to serve American interests and stabilizes a dangerous and critical region." Senators have been enraged by Khashoggi's October killing and the White House response, prompting several Republicans to support the Yemen resolution as a rebuke to the longtime ally. Others already had concerns about the war in Yemen, which human rights groups say is wreaking havoc on the country and subjecting civilians, many of them children, to deadly disease and indiscriminate bombing. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker, a Republican from Tennessee, is preparing the separate, alternate resolution condemning the journalist's killing. McConnell urged senators to vote for Corker's measure, which he said "does a good job capturing bipartisan concerns about both the war in Yemen and the behavior of our Saudi partners more broadly." It appears unlikely that the House would be willing to consider the Yemen resolution. House leaders added a provision to an unrelated House rule that would make it harder for lawmakers there to call it up if the Senate passes it. The rule barely passed, 206-203, after Democrats railed against the Yemen provision. CIA Director Gina Haspel briefed House leaders on the Khashoggi slaying on Wednesday, and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis briefed the full House on Thursday. Pompeo and Mattis briefed the Senate last month and told senators there was "no direct reporting" or "smoking gun" to connect the crown prince to Khashoggi's death at a Saudi consulate in Turkey. But a smaller group of senators leaving a separate briefing with Haspel days later said there was "zero chance" the crown prince wasn't involved. House Republicans were less eager than their Senate counterparts to criticize Saudi Arabia and the Trump administration. House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, R-La., said after Thursday's briefing that he was waiting to see the outcome of the administration's ongoing investigation. Scalise said there had been "discussions" about action before the end of the year but wouldn't say if GOP leaders would consider Corker's resolution if it passes the Senate. House Democrats sharply criticized the Trump administration. "All we had today was more disgraceful ducking and dodging," Texas Rep. Lloyd Doggett said of the briefing. "I could have spent the time watching the cable news and learned more." Khashoggi, who had lived in the U.S. and wrote for The Washington Post, had been critical of the Saudi regime. He was killed in what U.S. officials have described as an elaborate plot as he visited the consulate in Istanbul for marriage paperwork. Saudi prosecutors have said a 15-man team sent to Istanbul killed Khashoggi with tranquilizers and then dismembered his body, which has not been found. Those findings came after Saudi authorities spent weeks denying Khashoggi had been killed in the consulate. Pressed on a response to the slaying, Trump has been reluctant to condemn the crown prince. He said the United States "intends to remain a steadfast partner" of the country, touted Saudi arms deals worth billions of dollars to the U.S. and thanked the country for plunging oil prices. Whatever is passed this month, lawmakers in both chambers have signaled that they will continue to press Saudi Arabia next year. The top Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee, Sen. Bob Menendez of New Jersey, is pushing tough legislation with a growing bipartisan group of senators that would halt arms sales and impose sanctions, to send what he called a "global message" to not just the Saudis but also to other regimes. "Just because you're our ally, you can't kill with impunity," Menendez said. "The current relationship with Saudi Arabia is not working," said Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., who supports Menendez's measure and is expected to become chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. "You're never going to have a relationship with the United States Senate unless things change." California Rep. Adam Schiff, who is expected to become chairman of the House intelligence committee next year, said he intends to lead a "deep dive" into Saudi Arabia and Yemen. Democratic Rep. Eliot Engel of New York, the likely incoming chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said he would hold hearings on Saudi Arabia. The Senate debate came as the United Nations secretary general on Thursday announced that Yemen's warring sides have agreed to a province-wide cease-fire and withdrawal of troops in Hodeida, a contested Red Sea port city. The brutal four-year-old civil war pits the internationally recognized Yemeni government, supported by a Saudi-led coalition, against the Iran-backed rebels known as Houthis.
12.13.2018	As the Senate prepares to deliver a historic, bipartisan rebuke of the United States’ continued support for Saudi Arabia’s war effort in Yemen, House lawmakers remain bitterly divided along party lines about whether to challenge President Trump’s continued support for the Kingdom, even in the face of evidence implicating its crown prince in the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. House lawmakers emerged from a closed-door briefing with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis Thursday urging very different responses to Saudi Arabia and its crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, whom a recent CIA assessment found was probably responsible for the killing of Khashoggi, a Washington Post contributing columnist, in a Saudi consulate in Istanbul. “They have to be held responsible,” Rep. Eliot L. Engel (D-N.Y.), the incoming chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said after the briefing, referring to Mohammed and Saudi King Salman. On Yemen, Engel added that while the Saudis were right to worry about the growing influence of Houthi rebels aligned with Iran, “we cannot use it as an excuse to just say ‘whatever the Saudi government is doing is okay because we’re fighting for the greater cause.’” But there remain Republicans in the House who defend the crown prince — and those who think that even if he should be called out for his involvement in Khashoggi’s death, the punishment should stop there. “We recognize killing journalists is absolutely evil and despicable, but to completely realign our interests in the Middle East as a result of this, when for instance the Russians kill journalists...Turkey imprisons journalists?” Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.) said. “It’s not a sinless world out there.” That stands in sharp contrast to the Senate, where several Republicans have been encouraging a broad response to Saudi Arabia over not just Khashoggi’s killing and the Yemen war, but the Kingdom’s blockade in Qatar, its recent detainment of Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri, and a slate of human rights abuses they say have compromised the U.S.-Saudi alliance. The Senate is likely on Thursday to pass a resolution seeking to invoke the War Powers Resolution to curtail U.S. support for the Saudi-led military campaign in Yemen. Sixty senators voted on Wednesday to debate the resolution — a showing that suggests that even if the effort fails to pass both chambers of Congress, senators are building momentum to challenge Saudi Arabia and Trump’s support for it that will continue into next year. Trump has refused to condemn Mohammed for killing Khashoggi, a Saudi national, in the Saudi consulate in Istanbul on Oct. 2. Pompeo has echoed Trump’s stance in public interviews, and behind closed doors as well, lawmakers said. “All we heard today was more disgraceful ducking and dodging by the secretary,” said Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Tex.), who supports bringing up a War Powers resolution in the House to cut off U.S. support for the Saudis’ Yemen war effort. On Wednesday, the House narrowly voted to block rank-and-file members from demanding a floor vote on any such Yemen resolution, after leaders slipped in a rule change to do so into an unrelated agricultural bill. On Wednesday, House leaders also met with CIA director Gina Haspel to be briefed about the details of Khashoggi’s slaying. But they emerged offering few details about the briefing — or about what step House Democrats would take, once they assume the majority in January, to pursue more punitive measures against Saudi Arabia, beyond holding hearings. In the Senate, meanwhile, both Republican and Democratic lawmakers are making plans to capi­tal­ize on the Yemen resolution vote with further measures next year — including sanctions on Mohammed and the other Saudis implicated in Khashoggi’s killing, and an order to halt all nondefensive weapons transfers to Saudi Arabia until hostilities in Yemen cease. “The current relationship with Saudi Arabia is not working for America,” Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) said Wednesday, in comments to reporters about what next steps senators planned to take to address Saudi policy. “I’m never going to let this go until things change in Saudi Arabia.”
12.12.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 12, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Passing Asia Reassurance Initiative Act: Ensuring Trade Partners that Support Human Rights & Rule of Law Washington, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee, spoke on the floor of the House today before passage of the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act, and in support of amending the Section 302 of the bill. Rep. Doggett gave a speech which you can watch here, and provided these comments: “As approved by the Senate, this resolution responds appropriately to the vacillation and confusion over the Trump Administration’s foreign policy. But in today’s amendment to Section 302 of the bill, we commit not only to support continued engagement and friendship in the Asia Pacific region, but to advance through our trade negotiations the values for which America has long been recognized as a beacon of hope. That beacon should leave no corner of the globe in the dark, and it must reach Asia. Our economic relations must be rooted in shared respect for human rights and adherence to the rule of law. It takes more than simply an opportunity to increase exports to justify a new agreement with a trading partner. With this new Section 302, Congress doesn’t support just any trade agreement, but only those agreements with partners that actually respect, promote, and adhere to the rule of law. By its very terms, when considered together with Title IV, this amended resolution does not, for example, justify trade agreements with Myanmar (formerly Burma) after its murderous ethnic cleansing of its Rohingya residents, nor does it offer any support to the Trump Administration’s July 26 declared intent to reward the tyrant of the Philippines, Rodrigo Duterte. This country, under this government, is simply an unacceptable choice as a potential trading partner. Though Trump’s Hug-a-Thug approach has repeatedly preferred foreign tyrants over committed allies, I believe that human rights is not a luxury. It is central to American values and the security of American families.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
12.12.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 12, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Suffering is Rising and American Bombs Keep Falling: Doggett Speech on House Floor as GOP Stifles Debate on Yemen Washington, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee, spoke on the floor of the House today on GOP attempts to again block a vote on U.S. support for the Saudi coalition in Yemen. As Republicans stifle this provision within a rule on the Farm Bill, Rep. Doggett gave a speech which you can watch here, and which is reproduced in part below, as prepared: “What cruel irony—that this rule dealing, in part, with too much food in America may starve millions in Yemen. As this Congress invests in food for America, we pour tax dollars into stripping Yemeni children of theirs. In that remote place of which most Americans know little, 85,000 children have died and another 12 million are on starvation’s brink. This very day, more children will be lost to starvation and disease. In an eloquent plea this week, Nick Kristof reports on ‘an eight-year-old boy who is starving and has limbs like sticks He gazes stolidly ahead, tuning out everything, [as his] body focuses every calorie simply on keeping the organs functioning…weighing just over 30 pounds.’ He notes, ‘United Nations officials warn that this could become the worst famine in a generation.’ And Mr. Kristof rightly concludes, ‘The bottom line: Our tax dollars are going to starve children.’ Suffering is rising and American bombs keep falling. When the Saudi coalition attacked a school bus, killing 40 little children, scrawled across the bomb were markings that meant: Made in America. With today’s rule, Trump’s enablers here in Congress tell him to keep it up. To keep supporting the murderous Saudi regime for whom they can see no evil and hear no evil, even when there is a recording of the Saudi murder and dismemberment of an American resident available to listen to. This rule today prohibits a fair debate and vote here, because Republican leaders know that so many members of both parties can no longer stomach the atrocities. Atrocities that are supported by American tax dollars. They fear that a bipartisan majority of this House would reject what has become a wretched stain on our Nation. Last month, this same Trump enablers buried consideration of our resolution with a bill about gray wolves; today they bury Yemenis with a bill about American agricultural abundance. As Americans celebrate a joyous Christmas, the Trump Administration will continue writing the epitaph for the mass graves in Yemen. Let’s reject this Rule today and put a stop to this egregious wrongdoing.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
12.11.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE December 11, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Congressman Doggett Reacts to President Trump’s Threat of #TrumpShutdown Washington, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee, released the below statement in response to President Trump’s threat today that he was “proud to shut down the government for border security”: “Truly amazing. Trump is once again threatening he will shut down the government in order to force U.S. taxpayers to pay for his wasteful wall. Particularly in this holiday season, the impact of a Trump Shutdown would be felt by families across America, including in our community.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
12.04.2018	A number of officials have weighed in on the Friday death of former President George H.W. Bush. Here’s a sampling: “The state of Texas mourns with the nation at the passing of one of our greatest Presidents. George H.W. Bush was an American hero and icon, he was a friend to all he met, he embodied class and dignity. Texans are genuinely honored that he called the Lone Star State home and we collectively grieve this monumental loss. On behalf of Texas, Cecilia and I offer our thoughts and prayers to the Bush family in their time of need.” – Gov. Greg Abbott “Today the nation mourns the loss of a great patriarch who served this country as a war hero, Congressman, CIA Director, Vice President, and President. Just as important, he will be missed by his family as a caring husband, father, grandfather, and great-grandfather. A truly honorable and gracious man has gone home to God.” – Sen. John Cornyn “Today, American hearts are heavy as we bid farewell to President George H.W. Bush. He will be remembered as a good and faithful servant to his country, whose great legacy of leadership and love of homeland became a family tradition, earned him the admiration of countless Americans, and secured him a special place in the memory of every Texan.” – Sen. Ted Cruz “Libby and I join in honoring George H.W. Bush, who served our country in uniform through World War II, as a Texas Congressman, at the United Nations, and as President and Vice President. His longtime commitment was for country, not for self. He was a President whom we could respect and with whom sometimes we could respectfully disagree. My condolences to his family as we recognize a leader who warned against the dangers of unchecked nationalism and recognized the need for respectful cooperation with our allies around the world.” – U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett “Former “President George H. W. Bush was a leader who represented our country with dignity and a hero to many, including myself. He was an historic naval aviator. A champion of America’s space program, who came through with support when the program needed it most. And someone who demonstrated the honesty, character and integrity the citizens of our country deserve in a commander in chief. The warmth and compassion he and Barbara showed Gabby when she moved to a hospital in Houston for part of her recovery will never be forgotten by my family. Today, we honor him and all he did for the country. Our deepest sympathies are with the Bush family as they say goodbye.” – Naval Capt. and Astronaut Mark Kelly “Jan and I express our deepest condolences to the Bush family on the passing of our former President, George H. W. Bush. President Bush was a great Texan whose life and work exemplify public service and love for his country. His lasting legacy will inspire Americans for generations to come.” – Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick “I join all Americans and Texans in mourning the passing of a true patriot and fine president, George H.W. Bush. Across six decades, President Bush served his country courageously and selflessly. His impact on the global stage, our nation and Texas history will be his single greatest legacy to future generations. And we will forever cherish the memory of the love he shared with his beloved Barbara, who preceded him in death. President Bush was an inspiration to all of us and he will be greatly missed.” – AG Ken Paxton “Today, we mourn the loss of an American patriot and public servant. George H.W. Bush paired his profound sense of personal responsibility with honesty, gentility, and hard work. “In his inaugural address, he said that great nations, like great men, must keep their word. He stated that the American people did not send politicians to Washington to bicker. The American people ask their leaders to rise above the merely partisan. Throughout his life and career, President Bush embodied that sense of duty and commitment to bettering our country – whether it was fighting for Americans with disabilities, ensuring clear air for future generations, or bringing a peaceful end to the Cold War.” – DNC Chair Tom Perez “America has lost a great servant, and I have lost a great friend. George H.W. Bush epitomized everything wonderful about America, and like his country, he was tough, strong, and kind. He changed this nation and he changed the world ... Those who knew President Bush knew that his love for his country was only surpassed by his love for his family. This is an immeasurable loss for America, but I am comforted knowing that he has been reunited with his beloved, Barbara Bush, and is now with the Lord. My family and I will continue praying for the entire Bush family during this difficult time.” – Rep. Roger Williams
11.28.2018	WASHINGTON — When Mandel Metals, an aluminum distributor outside Chicago, found its business threatened by President Trump’s tariffs on foreign metals, it filed hundreds of requests with the administration to exclude its imports from the levies. Again and again, the administration said yes, allowing Mandel to import — if it wanted to — up to 600 million pounds of tariff-free aluminum from Greece, Italy, France, Norway and, perhaps most surprising, China. Mr. Trump imposed sweeping tariffs on steel and aluminum to prevent China and other countries from flooding the American market with cheap metals, which he said posed a national security threat by “degrading” the industrial base. But his administration has granted nearly 3,000 requests that could exempt Chinese-made metal products from the tariffs, according to a congressional analysis shared with The New York Times. Since March, when the tariffs of 25 percent on steel and 10 percent on aluminum went into effect, the Commerce Department has approved a higher share of exclusion requests that include imports from China than it has from American allies like Japan and Canada. The approval rate stems largely from the success of two companies. Mandel has won 400 aluminum exclusions — nearly half of all the exemptions granted to companies seeking relief from the aluminum levies through early November. Those exclusions allow Mandel to import six times the amount of metal it sells every year, and company officials say they will not come close to using all of that allowance. Greenfield Industries, a South Carolina maker of saw blades and other cutting tools, has won 1,000 exclusions from the steel tariffs. Greenfield is owned by China’s Top-Eastern Group. The exclusions stem from the Commerce Department’s process for determining whether companies can win tariff relief for imported metals. The requests are generally granted as long as no American producer formally objects and says it can provide the metals. Both supporters and opponents of the tariffs have criticized the process as haphazard and ineffective. Aluminum trade groups — including some that have criticized the tariffs — say the fact that Mandel received approval to import more metal, including aluminum from China, than it can use highlights the program’s flaws. Others have criticized the process for giving large domestic producers, like Nucor and Century Aluminum, outsize power to block exemptions by claiming they can provide the metals. “Generally, it seems the department is not evaluating whether there is actually demand in the market for these large volumes and has granted the requests based simply on the absence of any objections,” Heidi Brock, the president of the Aluminum Association, wrote in a letter to the Commerce Department this month. She cited Mandel and another set of exclusions, to Ta Chen International, for potentially one billion pounds of imports from China. The department has struggled to process the flood of requests, even with more than 100 employees and contractors reviewing them. According to department statistics, companies filed 51,059 steel exclusion requests and 6,701 aluminum requests through early November. It had ruled on 18,137 of the steel requests, about 36 percent, and 981 of the aluminum requests, about 15 percent. Three-quarters of the steel decisions were approvals, compared with 85 percent for aluminum. The approvals contrast with the exclusion process for the tariffs that Mr. Trump imposed on $50 billion worth of Chinese products. That process, which is being run by the Office of the United States Trade Representative, has denied 1,300 requests and approved none. Perhaps no one is more puzzled by the process than Mandel’s executives, who say they don’t intend to import Chinese aluminum this year. “Our intent was not to shoot the moon here and gobble up exclusions,” said Mike Ward, the company’s president. “We didn’t know any better. They seemingly greenlighted everything we sent them.” Mandel doesn’t forge aluminum products in its headquarters facility in Franklin Park, Ill. “We take aluminum,” Mr. Ward said, “and cut it to a size our customers can use.” The aluminum it buys is low end — and not what American producers specialize in these days. “There is a shortage of the common alloy being produced in the United States,” said Rick Mandel, the chairman and chief executive officer. When Mandel officials called the Commerce Department this year for guidance on filing exclusion requests, they were surprised at how little information the government could offer. So they filed requests for every product they import. To date, 443 of them have been approved, or 45 percent of all aluminum exclusions issued by the department. A Commerce Department spokesman said requests without objections, such as Mandel’s, were expedited in the review process. “Exclusions are granted only when U.S. producers do not make the product in sufficient and reasonably available amount, in satisfactory quality, or for a specific national security consideration,” the spokesman said. He added that the tariffs “have led to significant restarts in the steel and aluminum industries in facilities across the country.” Commerce Department statistics show steel imports are down 11 percent for this year. Census statistics show aluminum imports are down about 9 percent. But the drop in foreign metal has not mollified Democrats, who say Mr. Trump’s approach is simply sowing uncertainty among American companies while allowing China to continue sending its metals into the United States. “Trump talks tough but carries a flimsy stick,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat, who is in line to chair a Ways and Means subcommittee when Democrats assume control of the House next year. “He doesn’t have a trade policy, just a series of contradictions — claiming national security justifies imposing the same tariffs on allies and adversaries alike, yet granting so many Chinese aluminum exemptions from these very tariffs.”
11.21.2018	WASHINGTON - After tapping election season outrage over rising prescription drug costs, Texas Rep. Lloyd Doggett and victorious House Democrats intend to move quickly in the new Congress with proposals to protect consumers from price spikes and ease the financial crush on Medicare. President Donald Trump and Senate Republicans say they’re open to drug-price legislation, but Democrats face the twin obstacles of a potent drug industry lobby and fear of putting the government deeper into the health-care business. With Democratic takeover of the House in the new Congress, Doggett will be in position to influence health-care policy as he did in 2010 in helping engineer passage of the Affordable Care Act. Doggett, whose district stretches from San Antonio to Austin, chairs a House Democratic task force on drug pricing and is in line to take over the Ways and Means health-care subcommittee next year. He is chief sponsor of far-reaching legislation giving Medicare authority to negotiate directly with drug-makers and is moving swiftly to consolidate support. The law would allow the government to negotiate on behalf of veterans. The Medicare prescription drug benefit in place since the George W. Bush administration forbids such negotiations. Doggett is hoping that Trump, who has accused the pharmaceutical industry of “getting away with murder,” will be an ally in lifting the prohibition. “As much as I disagree with President Trump on just about everything, I’m hopeful that we can find some common ground. I’m hoping that on this issue he will begin acting more like candidate Trump,” Doggett said. Doggett will be joined by fellow drug-industry antagonists. Maryland Democrat Elijah Cummings, who once spoke of “very expensive champagne popping in drug industry board rooms,” will chair the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. It was that committee that summoned Mylan’s CEO to explain the company’s six-fold hike in the price of the EpiPen, an injector that wards off allergy attacks. The industry also can expect a less hospitable Senate even though it remains in GOP hands. Utah Republican Orrin Hatch, known for diverting drug-pricing proposals to the legislative graveyard as chair the Senate Finance Committee, is retiring. He will be replaced by no-nonsense Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa, who co-authored an investigation of Gilead’s decision to sell its hepatitis C drug for $84,500 per treatment. In the House, Doggett’s Medicare negotiation bill has emerged as the Democrats’ main plan of action thus far, attracting 100 co-sponsors and scores of endorsements. Projected revenues of more than $350 billion in 2018 for the top ten drug manufacturers help to make his case. Studies show that prescription prices in the United States are more than twice as high as in other developed countries, according to comparisons published by Health and Human Services. One in four Americans say they have a hard time paying for their medicine, the Kaiser Foundation’s Health Tracking Poll found. Per capita drug spending grew at a slower rate recently after increases of up to 11.5 percent annually when an array of new specialty drugs came on the market. But the announcement by drug giant Pfizer last week that it will raise prices of 41 of its medicines on Jan. 15 likely will renew concerns and add pressure on Congress to act. For Medicare, the price hikes are draining. Medicare’s share of national health spending leapt from 2 percent to 29 percent over a decade, making Medicare the nation’s second biggest spender on drugs behind private insurance. Deploying government purchasing power would, reduce prices, save taxpayer dollars and lower seniors’ out-of-pocket costs, Doggett and his allies contend. The challenge is finding a price. What happens if that negotiation fails is what likely will trigger debate. The government could then issue a license allowing other manufacturers to produce the drug for Medicare with the goal of lower prices through competition. The legislation would give protection from “price gouging,” as Doggett puts it, by preventing Medicare from paying more than the average price in countries that resemble the United States economically. That provision resembles an election-eve plan spelled out by Trump that raised eyebrows given his criticisms of health-care systems in foreign lands. Calling it a “revolutionary change,” the president announced on Oct. 25 that an “international pricing index” will be used in a demonstration project to determine how much will be paid for drugs covered by Medicare Part B - the original Medicare part that covers services and supplies. Trump’s proposal wouldn’t take effect for more than a year and only as a demonstration project, rather than a regulation that prescribes policies. Nonetheless, it generated cries of “price controls” from the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), the industry’s trade group in Washington. The industry is certain to wage an all-out effort against the Doggett plan. PhRMA has spent $21.8 million this year on lobbying, roughly 10 percent of the $216 million lobbying expenditures of the pharmaceutical and health products industry, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. A PhRMA spokeswoman, Holly Campbell, said by email that “we can’t speculate on what Congress may or may not do, but we remain focused on advancing market-based reforms” that lower costs. She added that medicine prices increased just 1.9 percent last year even though patients’ out-of-pocket costs continue to rise. Dan Mendelson, a consultant who oversaw health-care issues in the Clinton administration’s Office of Management and Budget, sees a difficult road for the Doggett bill. More likely, he said, are modest changes aimed at boosting competition among drug-makers and requiring more transparency in how they set prices. “There is not consensus about the government setting limits on the cost of drugs and there is not consensus that government can do better than the private sector in negotiating the cost of drugs,” he said. Mendelson also sees the electoral politics playing a role as Democrats lay the groundwork for wresting the White House from Trump in 2020. “They’re not going to want to put the question to bed,” he said, referring to the likelihood of drug prices remaining a potent campaign issue in two years. Dr. Walid Gellad, director of the Center for Pharmaceutical Policy and Prescribing at the University of Pittsburgh, is less certain that Doggett faces insurmountable odds. “A lot of people are writing it off. I’m not so sure I would do that,” he said. “It would have lot of trouble in the Senate. But you never really know these days with this administration and what might happen in a deal.”
11.16.2018	As elections last week made clear, voters still care a lot about health care. And chief among their concerns are exorbitantly high drug prices. The only point of disagreement is how to bring them down. Oddly enough, however, conservatives and liberals might be closer on this issue than you expect. One party is calling for price negotiations between the federal government and drug manufacturers; the other is calling for Medicare to unilaterally set prices. Which one is the Democratic proposal, and which one is Republican? Counterintuitively, it is President Trump and Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar who have proposed federal price controls for drugs. Yes, that’s right: Republicans — the supposed champions of the free market — have proposed tying U.S. drug prices to those set by 16 foreign countries, what Trump and Azar dubbed an “international price index.” Many of these countries have what conservatives dismiss as “socialistic” health-care systems, including in Britain, Canada, Sweden, Finland and France. And in some of those countries, governments use cost-effectiveness calculations to set their drug prices. Of course, Republicans may never acknowledge that they endorse cost-effectiveness thresholds for drug prices. Yet while unveiling his proposal, Azar called it “more radical” and “more revolutionary” than anything Democrats offered. For those of us who were accused of wanting to create “death panels” in the Affordable Care Act, this is as surreal as it gets. Democrats, on the other hand, have long proposed empowering the federal government to negotiate Medicare Part D drug prices. Under a bill by Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Tex.) that has secured 100 Democratic co-sponsors, if there is no agreement on a fair price, then pharmaceutical manufacturers receive no FDA marketing exclusivity and other manufacturers can immediately market generic versions of the drug. These are two very different approaches, but they share the same principle: The government needs to play a big role in regulating drug prices. A cynic might say the Republican proposal is only crass political pandering, given that it was unveiled less than two weeks before the midterm elections. In the 2016 campaign, Trump promised to do something about drug prices, and two years later, not much has changed. Prices for all brand-named drugs increased 8 percent in the first year of Trump’s presidency — more than four times the rate of inflation and twice the rate of other health-care increases. Indeed, drug companies’ stocks rose after the administration announced its proposal to mandate list prices be included in pharmaceutical TV ads, because investors knew Trump’s proposal wouldn’t control prices. Washington insiders will further note that the administration’s proposal was not a law or even a regulation. Rather, it was an arcane Washington procedure called an advance notice of proposed rulemaking — an announcement about the intention to introduce a regulation that solicits public feedback on the idea. In this case, the proposal suggested that Medicare run a five-year experiment from 2020 to 2025, with half the country paying controlled prices and half paying the usual amount to see which saves more money without undermining access to drugs. It also would apply only to a fraction of Medicare drugs: cancer chemotherapies, anti-inflammatory drugs and others administered by physicians in hospitals or their offices. The majority of all drugs would be unaffected. An observant skeptic would say the Republican plan is designed to fail. Indeed, the Republican proposal is structured to enrage both drug companies and doctors — a sure way to kill the proposal before it is enacted. Under this plan, physicians would be paid a flat fee regardless of the drug price, while under the current payment formula, they receive a percentage (currently 6 percent) of the drug price. But we should not embrace the cynic’s perspective too quickly. First, the Republican plan demonstrates that even conservatives are feeling pressure to regulate drug prices. The ideological challenge is how to regulate them. It is going to be difficult for Republicans to repudiate their president and stonewall on the issue over the next few years. Perhaps, with more than 90 percent of Democratic and Republican voters supporting regulation, a bipartisan compromise might emerge. Second, the Trump-Azar proposal also suggests that there is a growing consensus on including cost-effectiveness as part of determining fair drug prices. Again, it will be difficult for Republicans to oppose this after their leaders put it on the table. Finally, the timing for regulation is sooner than most people think. Given that pharmaceutical manufacturers keep raising prices well above inflation and are poised to introduce treatments pushing the $1 million price tag, public anger is unlikely to abate. This will force the issue to the top of the 2020 campaign unless something meaningful is done sooner. After the election, many in Washington will be searching for issues that a Democratic House, a Republican Senate and the White House can work on together. Although this policy seems like a desperate late-campaign ploy, it also signals something important: Drug pricing is one of those rare issues that animates both parties, suggesting a consensus might be possible. This is good news, not only for patients and taxpayers but also for our fractured political system.
11.13.2018	The midterm elections all but ended the Republican push to repeal the 2010 law known as Obamacare, but as a defining issue for Democrats in their takeover of the House, health care will remain near the top of lawmakers' policy and political agenda. Newly emboldened Democrats are expected to not only push legislation through the House, but use their control of key committees to press Trump administration officials on the implementation of the health law, Medicaid work requirements, and insurance that does not have to comply with Obamacare rules. Both parties are looking to address issues that voters prioritized, such as lowering prescription drug prices, though different approaches by Republicans and Democrats could mean incremental changes stand a better chance of enactment than any major bill. Early on, lawmakers may also find themselves dealing with the fallout of a court ruling that could overturn the mandate that health insurance under the law cover pre-existing conditions, putting Congress on the spot in the face of widespread voter support for those protections. All of these issues, which dominated this year’s elections, will play out against the backdrop of the next congressional and presidential contests. "In a lot of ways, the purpose of legislation in this Congress for the Democrats is going to be to set the agenda for the 2020 election," said Dan Mendelson, a former Clinton administration official and founder of the consulting firm Avalere. Drug Prices Lowering drug prices is a top priority for House Democrats and President Donald Trump. Leaders of both parties identified this issue last week as a possible area for bipartisanship. But Democrats’ more ambitious plans, like allowing Medicare to negotiate drug prices, aren’t expected to advance in the Republican Senate. Instead, issues like increasing transparency or speeding up approvals for new treatments could be issues where both parties can find agreement. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas, a contender to lead the Ways and Means Health Subcommittee, is pushing a measure (HR 5605) that would require HHS to negotiate prices for drugs covered by the Medicare Part D program. While most Democrats say they back price negotiations, there will likely be debate within the party about the details, particularly if they seem to be close to the government setting prices. "When you start getting into anything that looks like price controls, you might get some bipartisan support for, but you also might get bipartisan support against," said Ben Isgur, the leader of PwC's Health Research Institute. Democrats' other focal points center on price-gouging for pharmaceuticals, which gained significant attention in recent years. The House Democrats’ “Better Deal” legislative agenda envisions a “price-gouging” enforcer, which would be a Senate-confirmed position to lead a new agency focused on stopping significant price increases for prescription drugs. Democrats also hope to require drug manufacturers to provide data to justify significant price increases. Mendelson predicted that even if a major bipartisan agreement to lower prices doesn’t advance in the next Congress, the Trump administration will keep taking steps that could eventually lower prices. Food and Drug Commissioner Scott Gottlieb has earned bipartisan praise for speeding new drug approvals, for instance. The Trump administration could try to stay in command of drug pricing politics ahead of the 2020 election, he added. “There could well be significant progress over the next year or two because the administration has a lot of authority and they will use it to neutralize the issue before the 2020 election,” said Mendelson. Health Care Law The electrifying election-year issue of protections for pre-existing conditions is likely to win a House vote as Democrats seek to prove their commitment to that popular part of the 2010 law (PL 111-148, PL 111-152). Both parties are bracing for a ruling from U.S. District Court Judge Reed O’Connor of Texas in a lawsuit filed by 20 state officials seeking to overturn the 2010 law. O’Connor heard oral arguments in September. If O’Connor strikes down all or part of the law, Democrats expect a group of state attorneys general defending the law to seek an immediate injunction and appeal the decision. Legal scholars on both sides of the aisle question the arguments of those attempting to kill the law, but the case could reach the Supreme Court. House Democrats plan to consider a resolution (H Res 1031) by Rep. Jacky Rosen, D-Nev. — who won a Senate bid Tuesday — that would allow the House to intervene in the case and defend the law, aides say. Across the Capitol, 10 Senate Republicans introduced a bill (S 3388) this summer to guarantee coverage of pre-existing conditions, which GOP aides said could be part of a response to the lawsuit. Democrats have criticized the Senate GOP bill because it wouldn't require insurers to cover certain services for patients with pre-existing conditions. Republicans like Sen. Thom Tillis, R-N.C., who sponsored the measure, defend the bill. “If they do strike down large parts of the legislation, Sen. Tillis’ bill could be one important part of a larger health care legislative effort,” said Adam Webb, a spokesman for Tillis. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., declined to reveal after the election how the chamber would respond to a ruling striking down parts of the health care law, but called for bipartisan fixes to the law. A draft bipartisan stabilization bill, which has been at an impasse for nearly a year, could re-emerge in the next Congress, but it’s not clear if lawmakers can resolve a fight over abortion restrictions that blocked an agreement. Top Democrats — Reps Frank Pallone Jr. of New Jersey, Richard E. Neal of Massachusetts, and Robert C. Scott of Virginia, who are expected to chair the Energy and Commerce, Ways and Means and Education and Workforce committees, respectively — introduced legislation (HR 5155) this year to shore up the health law. It would increase the size of the tax credits that help people pay their premiums and expand eligibility. It also would block Trump administration rules to expand health plans that don’t meet the 2010 law's requirements. Aides caution the bill could see minor changes next year based on developments since it was introduced in March and say it could be tied into a stabilization debate. Since falling short in their efforts to overhaul the law, Senate Republicans pivoted to rising health care costs, a focus that will likely extend into next year. Several senators showed interest in legislation to prevent surprise medical bills, but it’s not clear what other topics could lead to bipartisan agreement, which will still be needed in the Senate even with a larger Republican majority. Oversight Democratic committee leaders are expected to make the most of their majority status to grill Trump administration officials over what critics call “sabotage” of the law's insurance exchanges. Key witnesses include Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar and Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Administrator Seema Verma, the prime architect of the administration's controversial Medicaid policies. “We'll be looking at what they're doing administratively to undermine the operations of the Affordable Care Act and what consequences they may have caused to literally millions of people,” House Minority Whip Steny H. Hoyer, D-Md., told reporters in September. Oversight could touch on issues including Trump's funding cuts to outreach and advertising for the exchanges, reductions in enrollment help and the effects of repealing the law's mandate to get coverage. Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, D-Md., who is expected to lead the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, will likely rev up an investigation into high prescription drug prices that he has been conducting as ranking member and could bring in pharmaceutical executives to testify before the panel. In a post-election press conference, the presumed incoming House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., highlighted the Energy and Commerce Committee as another “big oversight committee” that will be active. “We do not intend to abandon or relinquish our responsibility . . . for accountability, for oversight and the rest,” said Pelosi. “This doesn't mean we go looking for a fight, but it means that if we see a need to go forward, we will.”
11.08.2018	The Democratic takeover of the House is giving new life to efforts to fight high drug prices with bipartisan action, a worrying prospect for the pharmaceutical industry. It’s a top priority for House Democrats, who now have powers to press the issue and put the drug industry on the hot seat. It’s also an issue where Democrats believe there is potential to reach a deal with President Trump. Democrats say the issue of health care powered their House victory in Tuesday’s midterms and at the top of their agenda is lowering health-care costs by targeting prescription drug prices. Trump has also made fighting high drug prices a priority and his administration is moving on a new proposal to improve transparency about costs. David Mitchell, founder of the advocacy group Patients for Affordable Drugs, said Tuesday was “a really good night for drug pricing.” “We think the stage is set for bipartisan action,” he said. House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (Calif.) told PBS in an interview Tuesday that she thinks there could be “common ground” with Trump on drug pricing, and has touted the issue as a centerpiece of the party’s agenda. Trump likewise on Wednesday during a press conference listed “lowering the cost of prescription drugs” as an area where he thinks he could work with Pelosi. Any major action undoubtedly faces an uphill climb. Dealing with drug prices is an immensely controversial area, and drugmakers are a famously powerful industry in Washington. The Senate also remains in Republican control, another challenge to bringing legislation to Trump’s desk. But backers of bold moves on drug pricing are hopeful. “I think we can, and number two, I think we must,” said Rep. Peter Welch (D-Vt.), one of the House Democrats most vocal about taking on the issue of drug costs. “I think it can be bipartisan.” Democrats have made it clear they intend to hammer away at the issue. In the majority, they will be now able to conduct investigations into industry pricing practices and haul drug company executives in to testify. But ultimately, those moves won’t be as impactful as passing major legislation. Many House Democrats have already introduced a number of bills on the issue. Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Md.), who is expected to get the gavel on the powerful House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, has a bill to allow drug importation, a measure strongly opposed by the drug industry. Democrats say that if they can get Trump on board with some of their proposals that could ease the path for moving legislation through the Senate. Trump has previously endorsed Democratic-leaning ideas like having Medicare negotiate drug prices or importing drugs from abroad, but has not kept up support for those ideas while in office. Democrats hope they can win Trump’s support back on Medicare negotiation, in particular. “Whether this legislation becomes law is very much in the president’s hands,” said Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), sponsor of a Medicare negotiation bill in the House along with Welch. He said presidential leadership would be needed to get through drug company lobbying and resistance in the Senate. Senate Republicans may already be feeling some pressure. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) has expressed some openness to addressing drug pricing next year, though he did not offer specifics. “I can’t imagine that that won’t be on the agenda,” McConnell said at a press conference Wednesday. It’s also possible that smaller drug pricing actions could be attached to larger bills, such as must-pass spending legislation. Drug-pricing advocates have long pushed for the Creates Act, which seeks to crack down on delay tactics against approval of cheaper generic drugs, and that measure has bipartisan support. The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), the main drug industry trade group, though, will be on high alert over any moves on pricing. In a statement Wednesday, Holly Campbell, a spokeswoman for PhRMA, reiterated the group’s message that blame should fall on other actors in the supply chain, like pharmacy benefit managers and insurers, who often do not pass along discounts to patients. “We can’t speculate on what Congress may or may not do, but we remain focused on advancing market-based reforms that address misaligned incentives in the biopharmaceutical supply chain and lower out-of-pocket costs,” Campbell wrote in an email to The Hill. Democratic hopes of working with Trump on major legislation on issues like immigration and gun control have fallen through before after showing some signs of promise. Trump warned Wednesday that if House Democrats open investigations into his administration he would shut down bipartisan cooperation on legislation and “government comes to a halt.” But by controlling the House, Democrats can ramp up the pressure. If they struggle to get Trump or Republicans on board, Dems can still line up votes on pricing measures that prove popular with the public, sending them to the upper chamber to embarrass McConnell or even drive a wedge between him and Trump on the issue. It’s still unclear where Democrats and Trump might find common ground. Trump has recently taken some actions on his own to try to lower drug prices, evoking mixed reactions from Democrats who praised him but also urged him to go further. Democrats offered praise for a proposal that would force drug companies to disclose their prices in television ads, but said more must be done. The specifics of any legislation House Democrats will push for on drug pricing are also not yet clear. But several key Democrats pointed to allowing Medicare to negotiate drug prices on Wednesday, long a goal of the party. Both Welch and Doggett said they thought at least some House Republicans would end up voting for a Medicare negotiation bill if it were brought to the floor. Doggett said he expects there could be revisions to his current bill on the subject. Lawmakers will discuss the issue further after they return to Washington, starting next week. Welch said he hopes any legislation goes through the standard committee process. Pelosi noted that Democrats ran on allowing Medicare to negotiate in 2006, but were unable to get it into law. “We hope to get that done now because that is a big impact on America’s families’ budget,” Pelosi said Wednesday.
11.08.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE November 8, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Rep. Doggett Remarks in Defense of the Rule of Law Washington, D.C. — Rep. Doggett, author of the Special Counsel Transparency Act (H.R. 5533), joined by 111 cosponsors, to preserve the work of the Special Counsel should he be dismissed, gave the below statement on President Trump’s dismissal of Attorney General Jeff Sessions and installation of Matthew Whitaker as Acting Attorney General: “The true measure of patriotism is not ‘my country, right or wrong,’ but rather my country, I will right the wrongs. And with the Trump Administration there are always more wrongs to right every day! No one is above the law. Not a crime family. Not a Trump family, which may well have committed crime. What Trump fears most is truth—the truth Mueller can reveal about collusion to subvert his election, about Russian kompromat, money laundering, and obstruction. Courage is quiet. But fear rants. Fear tweets. Trump claims to pick only the best people, but so far, he has picked the best for indictment and jail. Trump may clean house at Justice, but our U.S. House must demand accountability and prevent further obstruction of justice. His threat against Mueller should not be a partisan struggle. This is not about Republican laws or Democratic laws. It is about the rule of law. And we will not let Trump make our Constitution as worthless as a degree from Trump University. Ensuring our democracy’s success is about much more than casting one vote, on one day, for one candidate, in one election or showing up to one rally. We must have a permanent commitment to making our home here deep in the heart of Texas a better and more just place in which all families can thrive. We must resist every day in every nonviolent, intelligent way. We must never, never back down from defending our values. Keep speaking out like our democracy depends on it. Because it does. Our democracy is only as strong as our will to stand up and preserve it. Never give up, never give in!” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
11.08.2018	Hundreds of people rallied in front of Austin City Hall on Thursday evening, joining protesters in cities across the nation calling on federal lawmakers to protect special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into potential coordination between Russia and then-presidential candidate Donald Trump’s campaign. Activists rushed to organize the protests over the span of a day and a half when the news broke Wednesday afternoon that Trump asked for Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ resignation and replaced him with Matthew Whitaker, his chief of staff. Whitaker has criticized Mueller’s probe. In Austin, the protest’s organizers made it clear that they had three demands: Whitaker must recuse himself from the investigation, the investigation must continue and the new attorney general must be impartial. At City Hall, people held signs that expressed sentiments such as “Whitaker Must Resign” and “No One Is Above the Law.” One woman wore a jacket with “Save Mueller” emblazoned on the back. Austin Council Member Jimmy Flannigan and U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett both spoke at the event. “This is a rally — like those going on across America tonight — about no one being above the law. ... We all know that what Trump fears the most is truth,” Doggett said. “The truth that Mueller could reveal about collusion to subvert our elections ... about money laundering and obstruction of justice.” Doggett said he was no fan of Sessions’, but he “was at least willing to recuse himself properly on the recommendation of the ethics people in the Justice Department from this investigation.” Doggett called Whitaker “a political hack, who has already publicly condemned the Mueller investigation and has proposed impeding it by doing things like cutting off its budget.” Giselle Roberts, who attended the rally with friends, said she was glad she came out Thursday evening. “At this point, I consider it a bipartisan issue,” Roberts said of Mueller’s investigation. “It’s a matter of upholding the law. We need to unite as a country.” Roberts said she felt optimistic after hearing the speakers. “I feel a lot more hopeful in these incredibly dark times,” she said.
11.07.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE November 7, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Rep. Doggett Reacts to Firing of Attorney General Sessions Washington, D.C. —Rep. Doggett, author of the Special Counsel Transparency Act (H.R. 5533), joined by 111 cosponsors, to preserve the work of the Special Counsel should he be dismissed, responded to President Trump’s dismissal today of Attorney General Jeff Sessions. He said: “Only a few hours after the election, President Trump has undertaken far-reaching meddling into the Mueller investigation. He has found someone, who has already voiced a very narrow view of Mueller’s authority, and who is not recused from interfering in that investigation. After so much humiliation, Sessions may finally have resigned, but the Congress should not be resigned to abandoning this vital investigation into wrongdoing. Trump may clean house at Justice, but our U.S. House must demand accountability and prevent further obstruction of justice.” If the Special Counsel is fired or at the conclusion of his investigation, this bill would: Require the Special Counsel and Justice Department to provide separate reports to the Judiciary Committees and Congressional leadership detailing the status of the investigation as of the date of dismissal and facts found; Require that such report include any evidence of criminal activity that implicates the President, anyone who has or is currently working in the Executive Office of the President, or any political officer, including grand jury evidence; and Prohibit the prosecution of the Special Counsel for any disclosures made pursuant to this bill Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
11.07.2018	Video of Rep. Doggett&amp;#039;s Response to Trump Firing Attourney General Jeff Sessions
11.07.2018	House Democrats swept into power Tuesday night on the strength of vows to protect the Affordable Care Act and check the Trump administration. Now it's up to a longtime congressman from New Jersey to keep that promise. Rep. Frank Pallone will take the gavel of the Energy and Commerce Committee for the first time next year, thrusting him to the fore of a high-volume health care debate likely to form the backdrop of the 2020 presidential race. Pallone will wield broad power over the Democratic health agenda, setting the tone on big-ticket priorities like strengthening Obamacare and lowering prescription drug prices while leading an array of investigations into the White House's most divisive health care policies. Pallone's charge will be managing the delicate balance between Democrats' burgeoning progressive wing and its moderate establishment. It's a challenge that could define the party's trajectory on major health care issues, like single-payer health care, and put Pallone's own allegiances to the test. "All of us feel very strongly that health care is one of the major issues in the election and that Democrats are for affordable health care for all," said Rep. Eliot Engel of New York, a committee member. "There may not be total agreement on how to do that.“ For Democrats, the committee's chief goal will be protecting Obamacare after years of concentrated efforts in the House to undermine the law. The GOP's failed repeal effort last year only served to make Obamacare more popular than ever, propelling Democrats who campaigned on preserving patient protections and expanding coverage. Pallone, who was elected to his 16th term Tuesday, declined to be interviewed for this story. However, in a brief interview last month, Pallone said he'd explore negotiating a bipartisan bill stabilizing Obamacare insurance marketplaces if Democrats took back the House. A similar effort was derailed earlier this year in the Senate, and there may be little room for compromise with the 2020 campaign starting in just a few months. The committee will dig into a slew of Trump administration policies that Democrats claim have undermined the health law, like shortening sign-up periods, cutting outreach funding and expanding cheaper coverage alternatives. That means hauling Trump's health officials into hearings on Capitol Hill and spotlighting the fallout from their policies. "We need to have oversight about what they're doing to sabotage the ACA," Pallone said. Democratic lawmakers say they're also wary of appearing to be solely obstructionist. They see the next two years as an opportunity to pitch their own health care vision, passing legislation that signals what they’d pursue with full control of Washington in 2020, even if those bills are sure to die in the Republican-controlled Senate or face a White House veto before that. The legislative agenda will focus primarily on rolling back the Trump administration’s moves against Obamacare, with the Energy and Commerce panel crafting bills restricting the sale of short-term plans and reinstating funding for "navigator" groups that aid Obamacare enrollees. Democratic leaders will also face mounting pressure to prioritize far more ambitious and potentially divisive policies animating the party's base, like sweeping drug price legislation and single-payer. A House bill, H.R. 6505 (115), with 100 co-sponsors, would allow Medicare to directly negotiate drug prices — a concept liberals have long argued should be the backbone of any plan for lowering pharmaceutical costs. It’s also likely to be an early focal point for Democrats on the Ways and Means Committee, the tax-writing panel whose broad jurisdiction includes government health programs. Rep. Lloyd Doggett of Texas, who could end up chairing the panel’s health subcommittee, co-authored the Medicare negotiation bill and is a vocal advocate of a drug price overhaul. Some other Democrats have suggested they may even be able to court President Donald Trump on the issue, given his focus on drug prices. Trump campaigned on allowing Medicare to negotiate directly on prescription drugs but backed away from the idea as president. Pallone has pledged to tackle drug prices as committee chairman, but he's yet to sign onto the bill. Advocates privately worry he may shy away from antagonizing the pharmaceutical industry, which is among one of his biggest donors and has a major presence in New Jersey. "Pallone will absolutely be on board with some of the drug pricing agenda, but he also has to keep in mind he has a lot of pharmaceutical employees who are his constituents," said one health care lobbyist who works on drug price issues. "It's going to be a very difficult position, because I do think there's going to be a lot of pressure for them to go hard on the pharmaceutical industry." The committee will also need to manage what could rapidly devolve into a deep intraparty rift: Whether to focus solely on shoring up the ACA, or to seize the momentum and rally support for single-payer. Most of the House Democratic conference has already signed onto legislation, H.R. 676 (115), establishing a universal health care system, a once-fringe idea now backed by several likely presidential candidates and most voters (at least in theory). They'll face pressure from the party's liberal base to hammer out a "Medicare for All" plan to tee up for 2020, or risk frustrating the voters who just catapulted them into power. Long-serving committee Democrats, back in the majority for the first time since Obamacare's passage, bristle at jumping into another health care fight. They warn it could squander the party's newfound political advantage by upending a system that voters are just beginning to like. "I tell some of these young activists, 'Before you were born, I was for universal health care,'" said Rep. Jan Schakowsky of Illinois. "I am all for moving as fast as we can for doing that. But there are things we can do right away." For Pallone and Democrats, that means ensuring the committee's work over next two years feeds the same goal of beating Trump and the GOP in 2020. Democratic leaders "need to come up with a health care agenda that makes sense for the political moment we're in," said Brad Woodhouse, executive director of pro-ACA group Protect Our Care. "It's a really high priority to keep the focus on Republicans and what they've done to harm health care."
11.07.2018	With Democrats running the House, one of the biggest headaches for President Donald Trump could be the release of his tax returns, which he has long refused to make public. Democrats on Wednesday said they’d use special powers enjoyed by the leaders of congressional tax committees to get the documents. Pressed about it at a news conference, Trump avoided the question by saying he wouldn’t release his taxes while he’s under audit. But under the law, he may not have a choice about whether Democrats obtain them. "There’s ample justification” for the Ways and Means Committee to go after Trump’s personal and business tax returns, Rep. Lloyd Doggett, the panel's No. 4 Democrat, said Wednesday. “We need to act on this promptly.” But the maneuver doesn’t come without some political risks for Democrats — and actually getting and dealing with the president’s returns may be a harder and slower process than they realize. Here are some answers about what they can do: How can House Democrats get Trump’s tax returns even if he refuses to release them? A 1924 law allows the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee to examine anyone’s tax returns in private, without their permission, and the likely incoming chairman, Massachusetts Democrat Richard Neal, has said he’d go after Trump’s IRS filings. The law allows him to share the material in private with other lawmakers on the panel and their staff. Rudy Giuliani, Trump’s lawyer, has said he’d urge Trump to fight the request. But it’s unclear how that would play out if it went to court. The law stipulates the Treasury secretary “shall” turn over “any return or return information” requested by the heads of Congress’ tax committees, or its nonpartisan tax advisory office, the Joint Committee on Taxation. “Secretary Mnuchin will review any request with the Treasury general counsel for legality,” an agency spokesperson said Wednesday. Can lawmakers make the information public once they have it? Lawmakers can vote to make the information public. That would be highly unusual, though it wouldn’t be unprecedented. A few years ago, Republicans voted to make private tax information about nonprofit groups public, though not individual taxpayers’ returns, as part of an investigation into the IRS. Before that, Congress made public President Richard Nixon’s tax information after questions about whether he had underpaid his taxes. How quickly might we see something? Democrats are prepared for the White House to order Treasury to refuse to release Trump’s returns, forcing lawmakers to go to court to spring the returns. That could potentially take years, and some predict the administration will happily tie up the issue in court if only to delay the disclosure. Of course, Democrats could always retaliate by cutting Treasury’s budget or by attaching riders into its annual appropriations — such as one preventing Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin from using public money to travel. Are there risks for Democrats? It’s a felony to improperly disclose tax information, punishable up to five years in prison — one reason why tax returns rarely leak. Some warn Democrats will have to be careful handling Trump’s returns. They would likely examine them in private for some time, while they try to understand Trump’s finances, before releasing anything to the public. During that time, if Democrats answer a reporters’ question, for example, in a way that reflects something they’ve learned from his return, they could find themselves in legal jeopardy. Neal should not even bring Trump’s returns to the Hill, and should instead visit them at the IRS in order to avoid leaks, said Janice Mays, a former longtime Democratic tax aide. “I would recommend that he doesn’t even take physical custody of them but leaves them at the IRS,” said Mays, who was the panel’s chief counsel. “If anything does get leaked, you’ll be accused of being the leaker if you’ve got it, so I’d say go down and visit it — don’t bring it to you.” Neal may even have trouble discussing the issue even in general, once he’s seen the returns, she said. “Anything he says — people will read it into that he’s seen the return and knows something,” said Mays. “He’s going to have to go quiet, as is anybody who has access to them.” Once the Democrats have the returns, what could they do with them? The first task for the committee would be understanding what the returns show. Trump’s filings will surely be hugely complicated, and even the tax committees may not have the expertise to fully decipher them. They may need to hire outside investigators or perhaps tap the JCT to help them understand what they’re looking at. Could there be financial consequences for Trump? It depends what Democrats find. It didn’t go well for Nixon when the JCT audited his returns at lawmakers’ request in 1974. It took JCT four months to produce a report on Nixon’s taxes that ran almost 1,000 pages — and determined that he owed almost $500,000, which amounted to half his net worth.
11.07.2018	The new Democratic majority will request President Trump’s tax returns immediately under the section of the tax code that allows them to review the documents, a senior lawmaker said Wednesday. “I’m confident that this president who’s had no oversight, only overlook, will feel that he’s above the law on this also,” Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D., Texas) said on a conference call with reporters. "While we may not get those returns immediately, we ought to. And we ought to be asking for them immediately, aware that the president will be resistant to oversight.” Mr. Doggett didn't specify what Democrats mean by "immediately." The new House will be sworn in early January. Under the tax law, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee can request and review any taxpayer’s returns. To resist, Mr. Trump would need Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to refuse the request. That standoff could end up in court. Mr. Doggett, a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee, said the returns would help Democrats investigate Mr. Trump’s conflicts of interest and business ties to foreign governments. “It’s important to our oversight to get those returns, important in both protecting our national security and protecting the integrity of the tax code,” he said. - Richard Rubin
11.06.2018	WASHINGTON — Democrats rode a wave of health care messaging into a majority of the House of Representatives, projections showed Tuesday, propelled by vows to protect Americans with pre-existing health conditions and dramatically lower prescription drug costs. Some of the winning Democrats highlighted their own health struggles. Others lambasted their Republican opponents for taking money from drug companies and health insurers. The GOP’s steadfast effort to roll back the Affordable Care Act dominated congressional campaigns around the country, and on Election Day, exit polls showed health care was the top concern for voters. The victory puts Democrats in a far better position to test the far-reaching health care agenda they have campaigned on for well over a year, though their ambitions will almost certainly be curtailed by a Republican-held Senate and President Trump’s White House. The election leaves Nancy Pelosi in the best position to regain the House speaker’s gavel she held from 2007 to 2011. Pelosi, currently the House minority leader, made health care costs a focus of her party’s “Better Deal” campaign promises in the year preceding the midterms. She told STAT recently that addressing high drug prices will be among the party’s first priorities. “It’s about stopping the GOP and Mitch McConnell’s assault on Medicare and Medicaid, the Affordable Care Act and the health care of 130 million Americans living with pre-existing medical conditions,” Pelosi said in a speech late Tuesday at the DCCC, referencing the Senate Majority Leader from Kentucky. “We will take real, very, very strong legislative action to negotiate down the price control of prescription drugs that is burdening seniors and families across America,” she pledged. Democrats, however, failed to regain control of the Senate, leaving open the question of whether the new House majority can negotiate with McConnell, who has made repealing the Affordable Care Act central to his party’s agenda and is seen as an ally of the pharmaceutical industry. Then there’s President Trump. He has been a friend and foe of the biopharma industry, famously accusing drug makers of “getting away with murder” for their exorbitant prices while stocking his administration with industry insiders. The administration has pursued drug pricing plans in fits and starts, with the president’s own aim on the issue scattershot. At times, he’s targeted the middlemen that he says get rich while doing “nothing.” More recently, his administration far more aggressively targeted drug makers themselves in a series of new policy proposals. Drug pricing could provide an opportunity for Democratic lawmakers to find common ground with a self-described dealmaker president. Already, some drug pricing hawks have shown a willingness to work with Trump, perhaps best evidenced by a March 2017 meeting at the White House between the president and two Democratic congressmen: Reps. Elijah Cummings (Md.) and Peter Welch (Vt.). Those lawmakers and others have outlined a legislative agenda to lower drug costs, beginning with a controversial proposal that would fulfill a Trump promise from the 2016 campaign trail: allowing Medicare to negotiate for drug prices. The White House has shown no signs of following through on Trump’s pledge, but Democrats will attempt to advance it regardless. In the first weeks of the new Congress, Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) is expected to introduce a bill not just to enable Medicare negotiation, but to authorize the federal government to award drug licenses to competing companies when manufacturers and Medicare fail to agree on a given medicine’s price. Those bills and the spectre of a federal “price-gouging enforcer” mirror threats Pelosi made before the pharmaceutical lobby’s top guns in a July meeting, in which she foreshadowed a hostile 2019 for any drug makers that resist Capitol Hill’s proposals to rein in drug prices. But there are also increasingly powerful Democrats — including many of the lawmakers expected to take key roles on committees overseeing health policy — who are seen as less hostile to the industry. Rep. Frank Pallone (N.J.), who could helm the Energy and Commerce Committee, often boasts of the biopharma presence in his district. Rep. Anna Eshoo (Calif.), who’s likely to take on a bigger role on the same committee, is among the top recipients of pharmaceutical industry campaign contributions in Congress. While Democrats at large found health care to be a winning issue, those who campaigned aggressively on insurance and drug pricing issues found mixed results. Sen. Claire McCaskill of Missouri, likely the Democrat speaking most aggressively about taking on the pharmaceutical industry, lost her race in Missouri. Richard Ojeda, a state senator who pledged to bar pharmaceutical lobbyists from his office, lost his House race in West Virginia. In Florida, however, former health secretary Donna Shalala flipped a seat in Democrats’ favor. In Texas, Republican Rep. Pete Sessions lost to Colin Allred, a Democrat who has campaigned on a promise to authorize Medicare negotiation with drug companies. Sessions was a target of the outside group Patients for Affordable Drugs, which on Tuesday labeled him a “Big Pharma Congressman.”
10.30.2018	President Donald Trump suggested in an interview that he could sign an executive order eliminating automatic citizenship for children born in the U.S. to noncitizens. If he follows through, the order would undoubtedly set off a legal challenge that would ultimately end at the U.S. Supreme Court. Trump’s suggestion during the Axios interview set off a flurry of reactions from both sides of the aisle ahead of the midterm elections. Democratic U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, who represents Austin and San Antonio, suggested the president wanted to rile up his base and bring immigration to the forefront ahead of Election Day. "He is a master of distraction," Doggett said. "He continues to foment bigotry and do everything he can to distract attention from his failures on health care and on education, in hopes that his base rhetoric will motivate his base." Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton, who has garnered praise from Trump for his lawsuit to end pre-existing conditions under the Affordable Care Act, said he thinks the order would address immigration issues Congress hasn't been able to tackle. "This is something that, I think, most Americans find unacceptable – that you create an incentive for somebody to cross the border, have a baby and suddenly they're a citizen," Paxton told Fox News. "It doesn't make any sense, and I'm glad the president's taking a look at this and considering it an option." Temo Muniz, Texas chairman of the Federation of Hispanic Republicans, said the president's suggestion – and how high-profile Republican leaders respond – will loom large in the future of a GOP that's trying to attract more Hispanic voters. Ultimately, he said, it could lead to a split in the party. "I still believe that we have an opportunity as a Republican Party," he said. "But at this point, with what the president said this morning ... I think it's time for a Republican civil war in the Republican Party of Texas. And I think it's time to stop playing nice." Republican Sen. Ted Cruz and his Democratic challenger, U.S. Rep. Beto O'Rourke, haven't yet directly responded to the president's comments. But The Texas Tribune points out that Cruz has previously said it's "a policy matter [that] doesn't make sense" and that he would support ending the provision; O'Rourke has never publicly expressed opposition to it.
10.26.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 26, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Hays County Commissioners Respond to Citizens so More Can Vote Texas — U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, who represents much of Hays County, released the below statement on today’s emergency action from Hays County Commissioners, after Rep. Doggett and others previously called for greater Early Voting accessibility: “Commendation to the Hays County Commissioners for responding promptly in a bipartisan way to calls of many local community leaders by removing practical barriers to our neighbors voting. The unprecedented Hays registration and early turnout is cause for celebrating our democracy. It certainly justifies this important emergency action to permit more early voting and better election day poll access. Whatever the election outcome in individual races, now more folks in the county will be decision-makers. Other jurisdictions across America would do well to stop raising voting barriers by following Hays County’s example. Thanks to the Texas Civil Rights Project as a valued watchdog, and congratulations to MOVE Texas for continued success in moving more young Texans to the polls. Now let’s eat em’ up, Cats!” – Rep. Lloyd Doggett ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: RepLloydDoggett
10.26.2018	“The burdens imposed by closing the on-campus early voting location fall particularly and disproportionately on the county’s young voters, who are significantly more likely to live on or near campus and are less likely to have easy, immediate access to reliable transportation to vote off-campus,” Beth Stevens, the Texas Civil Right's Project's voting rights legal director, wrote. The Texas Civil Rights Project also claimed the closure of the on-campus polling site violates two portions of the Texas election code — one that limits the number of temporary polling places in a county commissioner’s precinct and another that regulates the number of polling locations that must be set up for each voting precinct. The county’s Republican-dominated commissioners court, which is charged with establishing the county’s early voting locations, approved the polling location at the LBJ Student Center as a temporary site that would operate from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. during the first three days of early voting, which started Monday. The on-campus polling location has served as a temporary site — and not one that is open during the entirety of the two-week early voting period — since it was first established, Hays County Elections Administrator Jennifer Anderson noted in an email Wednesday evening. She acknowledged that the county’s student population seemed to have become “more active in our elections process” and that the on-campus polling location had been particularly busy this year. But that hasn’t been unique to the Texas State location, Anderson said. “We have encountered long lines and wait times everywhere in the county,” she wrote. “Voting numbers at Texas State are running parallel with other polling sites.” Anderson did not immediately respond to a request for comment regarding the Texas Civil Rights Project’s demand letter, though she previously said that the commissioners court was “looking into the process to see” if a request to expand early voting on-campus could be “accommodated.” Several groups, including members of Texas State’s College Democrats chapter, have already urged the county’s commissioners court to consider extending hours at the polling location on campus. On Wednesday, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a Democrat who represents the area, and local Democratic candidates also asked the commissioners to extend hours on-campus, saying they were concerned that the extended wait times were “suppressing the vote.” The county’s four commissioners did not respond to requests for comment that were sent Thursday before the demand letter was delivered. The county judge who presides over the court is out on medical leave for the remainder of his term, according to this office. The commissioners court is set to meet next Tuesday. Access to early voting on college campuses varies across the state. Students at the University of Texas at Austin have access to two on-campus polling locations throughout the early voting period and on Election Day. Tarrant County is splitting up its early voting between several universities and colleges, offering three days of early voting at both the University of Texas at Arlington and Texas Christian University.Top of Form Meanwhile, students at the University of Houston and Rice University — both in Harris County — and University of North Texas in Denton will only have access to on-campus voting on Election Day. Texas has a long history of clashing with students over voting rights. In a 1979 voting rights case that went to the U.S. Supreme Court, the court affirmed Prairie View A&M University students’ rights to register to vote at their college address even though county officials claimed the students were not residents. Prairie View A&M students scored another electoral victory on Thursday when Waller County announced it would expand early voting in the city. That decision came two days after students there sued the county over allegations that the county is suppressing the voting rights of black residents. Matthew Zdun contributed to this report.
10.26.2018	U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett has criticized President Trump's plan to deploy U.S. military personnel to deter an incoming migrant caravan as election-eve pandering to his anti-immigrant base. Defense Secretary James Mattis is expected to release orders that could send 800 or more troops to the U.S.-Mexico border to help authorities halt the caravan, according to news reports. But Doggett, a Democrat, said the move is unnecessary and a "shameless" waste of federal funds. “This is only the election-eve political emergency, not a true national emergency," said Doggett, who represents parts of San Antonio and Austin. "It’s not about border security, but Trump’s own political insecurity in his fact-free environment. No lie is too big for him to promote." Trump has accused the Democrats of initiating the caravan, mostly comprised of Central Americans fleeing crime and political repression, and claimed it may include Middle Eastern terrorists – both without offering any proof. "A Master of Distraction, Trump hopes that hyperventilating about a diminishing number of mostly Honduran women and children about 1,000 miles away will rally his anti-immigrant base," Doggett said. "This is a shameless waste of taxpayer dollars.”
10.25.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 25, 2018 Contact: Mike Ahn 202-225-4865 Rep. Lloyd Doggett on Trump’s Comment About Sending the Military to Southern Border Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), senior Member on the House Ways & Means Committee said the following in response to President Trump’s comments on sending the military to the southern border: “This is only the election-eve political emergency, not a true ‘National Emergency.’ It’s not about border security, but Trump’s own political insecurity in his fact-free environment. No lie is too big for him to promote. A Master of Distraction, Trump hopes that hyperventilating about a diminishing number of mostly Honduran women and children about 1,000 miles away will rally his anti-immigrant base. This is a shameless waste of taxpayer dollars.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: RepLloyDdoggett
10.25.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 25, 2018 Contact: Mike Ahn 202-225-4865 Trump on Rx Drugs: “After nearly two years of delay and dither, what we need is a pilot, not a pilot program” Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), senior Member on the House Ways & Means Committee and Chair of the Affordable Prescription Drug Task Force, said the following in response to President Trump’s speech on prescription drugs: “After nearly two years of delay and dither, what we need is a pilot, not a pilot program. President Trump again fails to meaningfully deliver on Candidate Trump’s repeated promises. Like a snake oil charlatan, what he delivers never matches his oversized promises. Again this year, he repeatedly promised drop prices would drop -- nope. While there is no single wonder drug to cure the prescription drug crisis, the drug Trump needs is truth serum. “It has been 167 days since his grand Rose Garden announcement, yet nothing has sprouted. After surrendering his health care agenda to Big Pharma executives recruited into his Administration, Trump has merely nibbled around the edges with some cost-shifting proposals that do no nothing to lower prices. Here are just a few of his broken promises from this year: January 29: We have to get the prices of prescription drugs way down and unravel the tangled web of special interests that are driving prices up for medicine and for really hurting patients. And we’re going to get that done. January 30: One of my greatest priorities is to reduce the price of prescription drugs. …And prices will come down substantially. Watch. March 19: But we pay, as a country, so much more for drugs because of the drug lobbies and other reasons, and the complexity of distribution, which is basically another term for saying, “How do we get more money?” … And we’ve already saved billions of dollars for our country, and it’s reflected in much lower drug prices. Watch what’s going to happen over a short period of time. May 11: Today, my administration is launching the most sweeping action in history to lower the price of prescription drugs for the American people. …We will have tougher negotiation, more competition, and much lower prices at the pharmacy counter. …We are getting tough on the drug makers that exploit our patent laws to choke out competition. Our patent system will reward innovation, but it will not be used as a shield to protect unfair monopolies. May 30: I think we’re going to have some big—some of the big drug companies in two weeks. And they’re going to announce—because of what we did, they’re going to announce voluntary massive drops in prices. July 19: We are making a big push to actually reduce the prices, maybe substantially, on prescription drugs. August 7: We are announcing something next week which is going to get them down really, really substantially. “It is time to call the President’s bluff and ensure that pharmaceutical companies are not allowed to continue charging their monopoly prices. He should support legislation that over 100 House Democrats have offered to rein in prices under Medicare Part D, which covers the vast majority of prescription drugs, accounts for far more Medicare spending, and has a faster growth rate. The Medicare Negotiation and Competitive Licensing Act would authorize the HHS Secretary to directly negotiate prices for Part D and use generic competition to lower prices if a manufacturer refuses to bargain.”
10.24.2018	On top of efforts to drum up openly racist "voter fraud" narratives and stoke xenophobic hysteria over the migrant caravan in an attempt to galvanize their right-wing base ahead of the Nov. 6 midterm elections, President Donald Trump and the GOP are also offering a last-minute promise of a major middle class tax cut that critics are mocking as an overt admission that the Republican tax law passed nearly a year ago has done virtually nothing to help workers—while sending an enormous windfall to rich donors and big corporations. "Caught red handed!" declared Americans for Tax Fairness (ATF) in a Twitter graphic after the president vowed to push a 10 percent middle class tax cut if Republicans retain control of Congress next month. "Trump says he and the GOP are working on a 'very major tax cut' for working families. So is he finally admitting that the GOP tax scam was just for the rich and corporations—not for working families like he claimed?" If the GOP tax law was such a boon for working families, Patriotic Millionaires asked Trump on Tuesday, "why are you scrambling to claim another tax cut for them is going to happen before the midterms?" In an interview with the Wall Street Journal on Tuesday, Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) characterized Trump and the GOP's promise to pile another tax cut on top of their $1.5 trillion giveaway—which many Republicans are not touting on the campaign trail because it remains extremely unpopular—as "empty rhetoric" given that Congress is not even in session to work on such a measure. "This empty rhetoric is an admission by Donald Trump that his tax law only helps corporations and the donor class." —Sen. Ron Wyden "This empty rhetoric is an admission by Donald Trump that his tax law only helps corporations and the donor class," Wyden said. "The middle class will see straight through this scam just like they did with Trump's broken promise to deliver $4,000 wage increases." When Trump first mentioned what has come to be known as the "mystery middle class tax cut" during a rally in Nevada over the weekend, Republicans expressed confusion and said they weren't aware of any new tax cut in the works. But House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) opted to play along with the president's made-up tax promise on Tuesday, declaring in a statement that his committee will "continue to work with the White House and Treasury over the coming weeks to develop an additional 10 percent tax cut focused specifically on middle class families and workers, to be advanced as Republicans retain the House and Senate." As the Huffington Post's Arthur Delaney and Matt Fuller pointed out, Brady's statement contained "at least one confession: Trump's timeline was pure fiction." "The president initially suggested Congress would pass this tax cut before the election," Delaney and Fuller continued. "But lawmakers have left Washington to campaign in their districts. Congress isn't due back until the second week of November, at which point they'll have to deal with a looming government funding deadline. Congress will not be passing a tax cut before the election—or any time soon after." In a statement on Tuesday, Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas)—who serves on the House Ways and Means Committee—described Trump's fictional tax plan as "a second-chance tax cut." "They had an opportunity to benefit the middle class when they rushed through their big tax bill last December," Doggett said. "[Trump is] now determined to create the impression that something's coming that was not delivered by him when he could." While Trump peddles on-the-fly policy sweeteners to his base in an attempt to boost turnout for next month's elections, Republican leaders have been rather vocal about plans to make cuts of a rather different kind. As Common Dreams reported, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) confirmed progressives' fears last week by blaming America's soaring deficits on safety-net spending rather than his party's enormous tax cuts for the rich, and proclaimed that cuts to Medicare and Social Security must be made to bring spending under control. Trump himself echoed McConnell's remarks last Wednesday, declaring that he plans to do "a lot of cutting" after the midterms. "We're going to cut some spending," the president added.
10.23.2018	WASHINGTON—Republicans are attempting to turn a vague tax-cut promise floated by President Trump into a campaign plank as they try to hang onto their majority in the House of Representatives. Days after Mr. Trump suggested an imminent middle-class tax cut that Congress doesn’t have the votes or time to pass this year, the top tax lawmaker in the House said he is working on it, and tied any action to future GOP control of Congress. “We will continue to work with the White House and Treasury over the coming weeks to develop an additional 10% tax cut focused specifically on middle-class families and workers, to be advanced as Republicans retain the House and Senate,” said Rep. Kevin Brady (R., Texas), chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. Democrats see the GOP’s rush to promote a new tax idea in the final weeks of the campaign as a tacit acknowledgment of flaws in the tax law they passed last year. “This empty rhetoric is an admission by Donald Trump that his tax law only helps corporations and the donor class,” said Sen. Ron Wyden (D., Ore.) “The middle class will see straight through this scam just like they did with Trump’s broken promise to deliver $4,000 wage increases.” Republicans had hoped to make last year’s tax cuts—a sweeping reduction in individual and business tax rates—the centerpiece of their midterm campaigns. Despite strong economic growth, the tax law hasn’t proved as popular as Republicans thought it would be. Middle-class households did benefit from last year’s tax law, but many taxpayers barely noticed the individual tax cuts that were implemented through lower paycheck withholding in February. Democrats have said they would roll back pieces of the 2017 tax law, though they are unlikely to make major changes with Mr. Trump in office. Senate Democrats proposed paying for infrastructure spending by reversing parts of the tax cut that benefits high-income households. They would reduce the estate-tax exemption, set the top individual tax rate back at 39.6% from its current 37% and raise the corporate tax rate to 25% from 21%, though still below the 35% that existed before the new law. “I’m going to call it a second-chance tax cut. They had an opportunity to benefit the middle class when they rushed through their big tax bill last December,” said Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D., Texas). Mr. Trump is “now determined to create the impression that something’s coming that was not delivered by him when he could.” Although some GOP candidates are running on last year’s tax law, many have concentrated more on immigration and linking their Democratic opponents to Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D., Calif.). Mr. Trump has veered from the tax message, too, at one point tossing a prepared tax speech aside and declaring it “boring.” In Nevada over the weekend, he started talking about a new middle-class tax cut, suggesting first that it would be done before Election Day, then saying it would be a 10% cut and that it would happen after the election. Such a bill would either require 60 votes in the Senate or a new budget that would likely allow for larger deficits and a simple-majority vote. He said Mr. Brady and House Speaker Paul Ryan (R., Wis.) were working with him and referred to a “resolution” in the works. But neither man has offered details of how such a 10% tax cut would be structured or what else might accompany it. “We’re doing other things, which I don’t have to explain now, but it will be pretty much a net neutral,” Mr. Trump said on Tuesday. In past administrations, a presidential statement would often mark the end of a policy process, the conclusion of a considered study of pros and cons. In the Trump administration, the policy process sometimes works the other way around, starting with a presidential pronouncement that spurs lawmakers and staff to fill in the blanks. “It’s all very unclear from these sort of rambly messages and short tweets that he sends out,” Mr. Doggett said. In Tuesday’s statement, Mr. Brady seemingly pushed the date into 2019 by linking any tax cut to continued Republican control of the House and Senate. Political forecasters currently expect Republicans to lose the House. The House already passed an extension of individual tax cuts past 2025 but the Senate hasn’t considered it. The Senate Finance Committee chairman, Orrin Hatch (R., Utah), “welcomes efforts to build on tax reform’s success and will work with the administration and Finance Committee members about how to best proceed,” said his spokeswoman, Nicole Hager. If Congress tries to turn this idea into law, they would have to figure out how to define middle-class and whether to consider payroll taxes when measuring a 10% cut.
10.20.2018	WASHINGTON — The pharmaceutical industry, pilloried by President Trump for the last two years, is war-gaming for the possibility that its worst fear is realized: that Democrats, if they flip control of the House, find common ground with the president to rein in drug prices. Democrats say they are determined to squeeze the industry’s prices and profits, and they have a stack of legislative proposals that could do so. Drug makers are quietly making contingency plans. “As the midterm elections approach, a feeling of foreboding has settled over the pharmaceutical industry,” said John E. McManus, a Republican health care lobbyist whose clients include major drug companies, as well as their trade association, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America. “Combine the rising blue wave — the Democrat fixation on pharmaceutical pricing — with President Trump’s populist focus on getting credit for cutting patients’ drug costs, and the industry could be confronting a perfect storm in 2019,” Mr. McManus said. Soon after his election, Mr. Trump bucked his party and accused drug companies of “getting away with murder.” In May this year, he unveiled a blueprint to lower drug prices. He followed through this past week with a proposal to force drug companies to disclose list prices in their television advertisements. Democrats’ ideas include allowing Medicare to negotiate lower drug prices; putting a cap on Medicare beneficiaries’ out-of-pocket drug costs; requiring manufacturers to disclose and justify any significant price increases; and outlawing tactics used by brand-name drug makers to delay the development and marketing of lower-cost versions of their products. If Democrats retake the House, the gavel of the Health Subcommittee of the Ways and Means Committee could go to Representative Lloyd Doggett of Texas, an unyielding critic of what he calls price gouging by pharmaceutical companies. Drug companies say they are counting on the Senate — which political forecasters say is more likely to remain in Republican control — to stop legislation they oppose. But changes are coming there, too. Pharmaceutical companies will be losing one of their most powerful allies, Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah and the chairman of the Finance Committee, who is retiring after more than 40 years in Congress. Mr. Grassley has long supported allowing importation of prescription drugs from Canada — anathema to the industry. He wrote the provisions of federal law that require drug companies to disclose the payments they make to doctors for research, consulting, speaking, travel and entertainment. Mr. Grassley is also the foremost champion of whistle-blower laws, under which drug companies have paid billions of dollars to resolve allegations that they defrauded the government or engaged in illegal marketing practices. The challenges facing the industry were laid out in stark terms this month by Covington & Burling, a Washington law firm that has been advising pharmaceutical companies for more than 75 years. Rujul Desai, a lawyer, said in a webinar that the firm had done “war-gaming exercises” with senior drug company executives to prepare them for possible congressional investigations and hearings on drug prices. The goal, he said, is to help clients “communicate the value of their innovative medicines.” One of his colleagues at Covington, Jennifer L. Plitsch, explained how the government could try to use existing laws to force a reduction in the prices of drugs developed with the help of taxpayer funds. The government has rarely used this authority, Ms. Plitsch said, but that could change. “It is,” she said, “a very easy sound bite for price control advocates: Why should American taxpayers both contribute to drug development and then pay the highest prices in the world as patients?” She suggested how drug companies could answer that argument: “The sound bite is misleading and simplistic. The proposal would chill innovation and hurt patients. A vast majority of the investment in drug development comes from private industry, not the government.” The politics of drug prices cross party lines. Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Senate Democrat, was among the first to praise Mr. Trump’s plan to mandate the inclusion of drug prices in TV ads. Representative Jan Schakowsky of Illinois, a liberal Democrat, said she was “surprised and happy” to receive a phone call from the Trump administration notifying her of its price-disclosure proposal, which resembles a bill she introduced in July. “Despite their army of lobbyists,” Ms. Schakowsky said, “drug companies should be very, very worried. Drug costs will be one of the first things on our agenda.” Another Democrat poised to pounce is Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, who is in line to become chairman of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform if Democrats take control of the House. In the last four years, he has aggressively investigated the industry, peppering drug makers and the Trump administration with numerous requests for information. Doctors, patients and insurers support many of the efforts to hold down drug costs. Researchers are making significant progress against cancer and other diseases, but “access is meaningless without affordability,” said Dr. Victor J. Dzau, the president of the National Academy of Medicine. Mr. Trump’s latest budget would provide Medicare beneficiaries with better protection against high drug costs by limiting their out-of-pocket expenses. Under another Trump proposal that could appeal to Democrats, Medicare beneficiaries would receive more of the savings that insurers extract from drug manufacturers. The Democrats’ proposal for the government to negotiate drug prices for millions of Medicare patients is their preferred solution. But it would also face the most opposition, from drug makers and Republicans who see it as a step toward price controls. As he campaigned for the presidency, Mr. Trump said he would “negotiate like crazy” to secure lower drug prices for Medicare. The idea — opposed by administration officials who have worked in the pharmaceutical industry — has dropped off his agenda. “President Trump has seemingly abandoned his campaign promise to have Medicare negotiate like crazy,” said Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader. But, she added, “we hope he would work with a Democratic majority to deliver on negotiation authority and lower drug prices.” Drug companies seek to maintain their influence and access in the Capitol with campaign contributions and platoons of lobbyists recruited from both parties. The drug industry has contributed nearly $12 million to candidates in this year’s congressional races, about 60 percent of it to Republicans, according to data compiled by Kaiser Health News. That sum is dwarfed by the $267 million that drug makers report having spent on lobbying in 2017-18, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, an independent group that tracks money in politics. “Drug companies have been in such a strong position, and they have contributed so generously to people in both parties, they’ve been pretty well able to block anything,” Mr. Doggett said. “But I do believe that there is now a public outcry, a real pent-up demand, that we take action.”
10.19.2018	(Bloomberg) --More than 40 U.S. House lawmakers are urging President Trump to impose sanctions on “those responsible for Jamal Khashoggi’s death,” according to news release from office of Democratic Rep. Lloyd Doggett. A letter to Trump signed by ~42 Democrats and Republican Rep. Walter Jones of N.C. calls for sanctions under the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act, a 2012 law that has been used against Russian officials and the Myanmar military Letter declares support for senators’ push to begin an investigation into the matter, and urges an “overdue end to U.S. support for Saudi Arabian military action in Yemen” The lawmakers ask Trump to “promptly disclose” whether the U.S. “intercepted communications among Saudi officials discussing plans to detain Mr. Khashoggi and advise what actions were taken to warn him of an attack” “The next step is probably to expel the Saudi ambassador and suspend weapons sales,” news release says To contact the reporters on this story: Billy House in Washington at bhouse5@bloomberg.net; Kim Chipman in Chicago at kchipman@bloomberg.net
10.19.2018	More than 40 lawmakers, led by San Antonio-Austin U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, sent a letter urging President Trump to impose sanctions on Saudi Arabia over the death of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. The letter calls for sanctions under the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act, requires presidents to decide within 120 days whether to impose sanctions requested by Congress. Doggett and the other lawmakers also requested an end to U.S. support for Saudi Arabia’s military action in Yemen. “With President Trump shamefully equivocating in the face of mounting evidence of Saudi slaughter, Congress must act,” said Doggett, a Democrat. "The next step is probably to expel the Saudi ambassador and suspend weapons sales." More than two weeks after Khashoggi, a Washington Post columnist, disappeared while visiting the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, Trump has appeared unwilling to call out the Saudi government. It took the president until Thursday to say he believes Khashoggi is dead, even as Turkish officials say they have recordings of his torture and murder. The Trump administration built much of its Middle East foreign policy around forging a strong relationship with the Saudi government, and the president's son-in-law and senior adviser Jared Kushner has a close personal relationship with the country's Crown Prince Mohammed.
10.19.2018	Everyone — well, maybe everyone but pharmaceutical manufacturers — thinks that drug prices in the United States are way too high. The big question is how to bring them down. On the campaign trail, Donald Trump vigorously advocated for Medicare price negotiations. But so far, his biggest policy proposal, which arrived Monday, merely suggests that the government require pharmaceutical companies (many of which, for disclosure, I have personally invested in) to show list prices in their TV advertisements. For some reason, it does not require such pricing information for radio, newspaper or magazine advertisements. Who could be against such price transparency? Indeed, few doctors and patients have any idea about the true prices of medical services, drugs, devices, imaging procedures or anything else. Providing price information is widely viewed as a good thing. But let’s not confuse a positive step toward price transparency with an effective policy to reduce drug prices. Putting list prices on TV ads will not lower drug prices. And it may have some troublesome side effects. It also lacks an enforcement mechanism, such as steep fines. How is showing drugs’ list prices supposed to work? Part of the Trump administration’s theory seems to be that by shaming drug companies they might lower their prices. But nothing seems to shame them. Indeed, after all the uproar over $600 EpiPens, EpiPens are, well, still $600. Perhaps the administration wants to encourage competition and give patients more information to shop for lower-priced drugs and generics. But for many expensive prescription drugs, there are no generics or competing brand-name drugs due to patent protection. And even in cases where there is competition, patients typically do not decide which brand of a drug they are prescribed; doctors and pharmacy benefit managers do. It is always dangerous — and a bit worrisome — to agree with the drug companies, but two arguments they raise against President Trump’s policy have validity. First, list prices for drugs are misleading and possibly useless. The actual price that Americans pay is almost always much lower. For instance, a friend of mine with metastatic prostate cancer was prescribed Johnson & Johnson’s Zytiga, with a list price of about $12,500 per month. Shopping around the Internet, patients can find the drug for about $10,500 per month, and with insurance, many pay as little as $2,500 per month. But because my friend has generous insurance for this particular class of drugs, he only pays $50 per month (though J&J will still make more than $10,000 per month, because the insurance company picks up the tab and raises premiums to do so). Just putting the list price out there is likely to confuse people about what they will actually pay. Second, drug companies argue, high list prices on TV might deter people from seeking treatment they need. These concerns are not entirely theoretical, as data show that some patients do not fill prescriptions when their chemotherapy drugs have high prices and high co-pays. The pharmaceutical industry’s solution, however, may be even sillier — and more disingenuous — than the administration’s. It wants to flash a website on TV ads so patients can find out more about drug prices online. But how many people will take the time to go to those websites? And can we trust that pricing information online won’t be confusing to the ordinary American? Wasn’t it Trump who once remarked on how confusing the health-care system was? If lowering drug prices is the goal, we need to understand the problem to devise an effective solution. The problem is that through patents and FDA marketing exclusivity, the government grants monopolies to drug companies. And the companies use that monopoly power to sell drugs at exorbitant prices. Although the specific policies differ in detail, every other developed country negotiates drug prices with a threat that if there is no agreement, companies won’t be allowed to sell their products. If we want lower drug prices, we’ll need similar policies. A good place to start is the proposal from Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Tex.), which has attracted 100 co-sponsors, that would require the Health and Human Services secretary to negotiate prices of prescription drugs paid for by Medicare Part D. If negotiations reach a stalemate, the secretary would have to issue licenses to other companies to make cheaper generics. The bill could be enhanced by expanding it to national drug price negotiations, covering the 160 million Americans who have private insurance. As Winston Churchill once said: “You can always count on Americans to do the right thing — after they have tried everything else.” It seems as if we will try the Trump administration’s hollow — maybe even counterproductive — policies to lower drug prices, such as listing them in TV ads, before we finally get around to real reform on drug prices.
10.18.2018	Ezekiel Emanuel is chair of the Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy at the University of Pennsylvania. He served in President Barack Obama’s White House from 2009 to 2011. Everyone — well, maybe everyone but pharmaceutical manufacturers — thinks that drug prices in the United States are way too high. The big question is how to bring them down. On the campaign trail, Donald Trump vigorously advocated for Medicare price negotiations. But so far, his biggest policy proposal, which arrived Monday, merely suggests that the government require pharmaceutical companies (many of which, for disclosure, I have personally invested in) to show list prices in their TV advertisements. For some reason, it does not require such pricing information for radio, newspaper or magazine advertisements. Who could be against such price transparency? Indeed, few doctors and patients have any idea about the true prices of medical services, drugs, devices, imaging procedures or anything else. Providing price information is widely viewed as a good thing. But let’s not confuse a positive step toward price transparency with an effective policy to reduce drug prices. Putting list prices on TV ads will not lower drug prices. And it may have some troublesome side effects. It also lacks an enforcement mechanism, such as steep fines. How is showing drugs’ list prices supposed to work? Part of the Trump administration’s theory seems to be that by shaming drug companies they might lower their prices. But nothing seems to shame them. Indeed, after all the uproar over $600 EpiPens, EpiPens are, well, still $600. Perhaps the administration wants to encourage competition and give patients more information to shop for lower-priced drugs and generics. But for many expensive prescription drugs, there are no generics or competing brand-name drugs due to patent protection. And even in cases where there is competition, patients typically do not decide which brand of a drug they are prescribed; doctors and pharmacy benefit managers do. It is always dangerous — and a bit worrisome — to agree with the drug companies, but two arguments they raise against President Trump’s policy have validity. First, list prices for drugs are misleading and possibly useless. The actual price that Americans pay is almost always much lower. For instance, a friend of mine with metastatic prostate cancer was prescribed Johnson & Johnson’s Zytiga, with a list price of about $12,500 per month. Shopping around the Internet, patients can find the drug for about $10,500 per month, and with insurance, many pay as little as $2,500 per month. But because my friend has generous insurance for this particular class of drugs, he only pays $50 per month (though J&J will still make more than $10,000 per month, because the insurance company picks up the tab and raises premiums to do so). Just putting the list price out there is likely to confuse people about what they will actually pay. Second, drug companies argue, high list prices on TV might deter people from seeking treatment they need. These concerns are not entirely theoretical, as data show that some patients do not fill prescriptions when their chemotherapy drugs have high prices and high co-pays. The pharmaceutical industry’s solution, however, may be even sillier — and more disingenuous — than the administration’s. It wants to flash a website on TV ads so patients can find out more about drug prices online. But how many people will take the time to go to those websites? And can we trust that pricing information online won’t be confusing to the ordinary American? Wasn’t it Trump who once remarked on how confusing the health-care system was? If lowering drug prices is the goal, we need to understand the problem to devise an effective solution. The problem is that through patents and FDA marketing exclusivity, the government grants monopolies to drug companies. And the companies use that monopoly power to sell drugs at exorbitant prices. Although the specific policies differ in detail, every other developed country negotiates drug prices with a threat that if there is no agreement, companies won’t be allowed to sell their products. If we want lower drug prices, we’ll need similar policies. A good place to start is the proposal from Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Tex.), which has attracted 100 co-sponsors, that would require the Health and Human Services secretary to negotiate prices of prescription drugs paid for by Medicare Part D. If negotiations reach a stalemate, the secretary would have to issue licenses to other companies to make cheaper generics. The bill could be enhanced by expanding it to national drug price negotiations, covering the 160 million Americans who have private insurance. As Winston Churchill once said: “You can always count on Americans to do the right thing — after they have tried everything else.” It seems as if we will try the Trump administration’s hollow — maybe even counterproductive — policies to lower drug prices, such as listing them in TV ads, before we finally get around to real reform on drug prices.
10.18.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 18, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 House Members Call for Sanctions After Jamal Khashoggi Murder Washington, D.C. — Over 40 lawmakers today urged Trump to impose sanctions, under the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act, on those responsible for Jamal Khashoggi’s death. The letter states their support for their Senate colleagues’ action to begin an investigation and urges an overdue end to U.S. support for Saudi Arabian military action in Yemen. “With President Trump shamefully equivocating in the face of mounting evidence of Saudi slaughter, Congress must act,” said Rep. Doggett. “Our letter supports strong sanctions on those responsible for Mr. Khashoggi’s murder under the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act and urges an overdue end to U.S. support for Saudi Arabia’s atrocities in Yemen. The next step is probably to expel the Saudi ambassador and suspend weapons sales.” The letter is available here along with the list of signatories, and the text of the letter is included below: Donald Trump President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Trump: Mounting evidence appears to indicate that the Government of Saudi Arabia directed the murder and dismemberment of Jamal Khashoggi. We join our Senate colleagues in supporting their formal request under the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act for you to determine whether a foreign person “is responsible for extrajudicial killings, torture, or other gross violations of internationally recognized human rights”[1] committed against an individual exercising freedom of expression, and to report to Congress within 120 days a determination and a decision on the imposition of sanctions on that foreign person or persons. We are hopeful that you can complete this report much sooner. We are deeply troubled by your recent remarks suggesting that money is more important than justice and other vital American values, and by your misrepresentation of how much money is at stake.[2] Additionally, we ask that you promptly disclose whether the United States intercepted communications among Saudi officials discussing plans to detain Mr. Khashoggi and advise what actions were taken to warn him of an attack. That can be done in a private briefing with lawmakers if deemed necessary. If your immediate investigation and determination are consistent with ongoing media reports about this outrageous action, we urge strong, comprehensive sanctions. We also urge the overdue suspension of U.S. involvement in Yemen, which has led to the deaths of countless innocent women and children in Yemen. Sincerely, Lloyd Doggett, Walter Jones, Alan Lowenthal, John Yarmuth, Frank Pallone, Jr., Pramila Jayapal, Jamie Raskin, Filemon Vela, James McGovern, Ro Khanna, Tim Ryan, Bill Foster, Zoe Lofgren, Jared Huffman, Mark Pocan, Ron Kind, Grace F. Napolitano, Robert Brady, Yvette D. Clarke, Peter DeFazio, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Chellie Pingree, Sheila Jackson Lee, Bobby L. Rush, Karen Bass, David N. Cicilline, Betty McCollum, Keith Ellison, Adam Smith, Barbara Lee, Nydia M. Velázquez, Peter Welch, Carolyn B. Maloney, Jan Schakowsky, Steve Cohen, John Garamendi, Suzan Delbene, Paul D. Tonko, Jackie Speier, Alcee L. Hastings, Nita Lowey, Suzanne Bonamici, Rosa DeLauro, Earl Blumenauer Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: https://www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett/ | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
10.15.2018	President Donald Trump is already signaling one area where he might reach across the aisle if Democrats take the House. “If there is anything bipartisan, it’s lowering drug prices,” Trump said last Wednesday as he signed two drug price transparency bills. Fresh off a bitter Supreme Court fight and a bruising campaign season, 2019 may not scream the year of big bipartisan compromises. But the drug price issue has broad populist appeal, motivating Republican and Democratic loyalists, as well as swing voters. It also appeals to male voters as few health care issues do, making it particularly attractive to Republicans, said Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster. “If you wanted to pick the No. 1 issue that united the Trump voters and Bernie [Sanders] voters,” drug pricing would be it, Lake said. That engagement by voters across the political spectrum is only expected to intensify as new cancer treatments priced at $500,000 a pop come on the market and consumers face ever-higher deductibles before their insurance coverage kicks in. Which doesn’t mean politicians are close on a breakthrough. Almost no health policy expert believes an agreement to allow the government to negotiate Medicare drug prices is possible next year — despite Trump’s endorsement of the idea on the campaign trail and House Democrats’ championing such negotiations as part of their “A Better Deal” agenda. Far more likely to win bipartisan support are incremental reforms that require drugmakers to disclose their list prices in advertisements, or force greater transparency around their relationships with pharmacy benefit managers to ensure the companies aren’t colluding to keep prices high, said Tara O’Neill Hayes, deputy director of health care policy at the center-right think tank American Action Forum. Other proposals that could win cross-aisle support would increase Medicaid penalties on companies that raise their list prices above the inflation rate, and prevent brand drug companies from abusing FDA safety programs to block cheaper competition. Still, Trump remains something of a wild card. His campaign dalliance with more controversial proposals usually identified with progressive Democrats, such as permitting the import of cheaper overseas drugs and government price negotiations, ended with his election. But he has shown a willingness to put the squeeze on allies, including his own advisers, when it suits his purposes. “For some of the Republicans who work at HHS and people in Congress, their concern is doing a deal with the Democrats [that] might split the Republican Party,” said James Capretta, a health policy fellow at the conservative-leaning free-market think tank American Enterprise Institute. “But for Trump, that might be worth it to get some deal on the table and get points on something he campaigned heavily on in 2016.” Poll results could also spur Trump to shift away from more traditional Republican approaches to return to his campaign pledges. A September POLITICO/Harvard poll found a majority of likely voters — and more than a quarter of Republicans — think Trump’s much-touted blueprint to lower prices, which relies mostly on modest steps or policies it says still need further study, will have no effect on drug costs. An August NORC University of Chicago/West Health Institute poll found that less than half of Republicans approve of Trump’s handling of drug costs. Yet that same NORC poll found more than 82 percent of Americans support government drug price negotiations. Either way, House Democrats hope the president’s engagement on drug pricing will give cover to at least some Senate Republicans to oppose the powerful pharmaceutical lobby, even if it’s on smaller reforms like banning a practice called pay for delay, where brand drug companies pay generic drugmakers to keep cheaper copycats out of patients’ hands. “I think you can see a dynamic where you have a Republican president, a Democratic House and a very split Senate with some Republicans wanting to show they are willing to take on PhRMA actually lead to some sort of progress in an area that is always extremely difficult to make progress,” said Chris Jennings, who advised Hillary Clinton on health policy, Trump being on board “creates a dynamic where it’s hard for [Republicans] to say no,” Jennings said. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat who has garnered 100 co-sponsors on his drug price negotiations bill, said he is optimistic the president will work across the aisle. “This is a very good area for him to work on because he was so strong in what he said,” Doggett said. Factors that will determine just how much gets done include how many new members, both Democratic and Republican, make it into the House. “PhRMA is very, very powerful and PhRMA has ties to Democrats and the Republicans. ... If you are an incumbent, you are often bought off on the issue.” Lake said. Who controls key committees will also play a role: Sen. Chuck Grassley is first in line to lead the Senate Finance Committee, replacing retiring Sen. Orrin Hatch, if the Iowa Republican agrees to give up the Judiciary Committee. This would give Grassley, one of the few Republicans willing to take on PhRMA, leadership of the Senate committee that handles Medicare and Medicaid policy. It would be a big departure from Hatch, one of the drug industry’s biggest allies. Grassley has long sponsored pay-for-delay legislation and other bills that crack down on anti-competitive practices in the drug industry. On the House side, the leaders chosen for Energy and Commerce will determine how hard Democrats go against the drug industry. New Jersey Democrat Frank Pallone would likely control the full committee under a Democratic majority and is interested in working on drug pricing. California’s Anna Eshoo, who represents the industry-heavy Silicon Valley region, could likely helm the committee’s health work. Eshoo, who has taken more in lifetime contributions from the pharmaceutical and health products industry than any other sitting House member, could block some of the progressive Democrats’ agenda. She did not respond to a request for comment for this story. But any bipartisan compromise likely has to happen quickly, experts caution. The closer it gets to 2020, the more Democrats may be more inclined “to hold the issue,” rather than give the president something he can take credit for to voters, AEI’s Capretta said. Another stumbling block may be lawmakers’ unwillingness to stick their necks out for reforms unlikely to be felt by most consumers. The FTC estimates the drug industry’s pay-for-delay practices cost the U.S. about $3.5 billion annually, for instance — just a fraction of the $450 billion the country spent on drugs in 2017. “A lot of people won’t feel that.” said Steven Knievel, director of the Access to Medicines program at the left-leaning Public Citizen. This could make it trickier for lawmakers worried about upsetting the powerful drug lobby to cast their votes. “It would be a kind of crazy approach for someone to say, ‘I’m going to take a controversial vote on something and it won’t have a serious impact,’” said Ezekiel Emanuel, a health policy professor at the University of Pennsylvania and a former top adviser to President Barack Obama. Emanuel thinks voter frustration over drug pricing will have to get worse before lawmakers are willing to take hard votes against an industry with so much clout. “I think we are going to need some more time, more anger … probably a few more scandals,” he said. One tipping point could be a drug priced at over $1 million. If that happens, he said, “then you’ve broken a barrier.”
10.12.2018	UNITED STATES CONGRESS For Immediate Release October 12, 2018 Reps. Doggett & Castro Welcome Signing of NAFTA 2.0 in San Antonio Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-San Antonio) and U.S. Congressman Joaquin Castro (D-San Antonio) sent a joint letter to Ambassador Robert Lighthizer welcoming a possible signing of NAFTA 2.0, formally known as the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) in San Antonio. The full text of this letter is below and attached: The Honorable Robert Lighthizer United States Trade Representative 600 17th Street NW Washington, DC 20230 Dear Ambassador Lighthizer: Congratulations on concluding a renewed NAFTA agreement renamed the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA). For over two decades, NAFTA has further integrated our nations’ economies and cultures. We appreciate your efforts to ensure that the existing agreement remains in full force and effect until the new version is considered by Congress. Since NAFTA was originally signed in San Antonio in 1993, we have recommended to you previously that our country symbolically demonstrate the importance of our long term relationship with our neighbors by signing this new agreement at the same location. San Antonio is an international city celebrating its Tricentennial this year. We have already transmitted to you the communications (attached again here) from San Antonio Mayor, Ron Nirenberg, and Bexar County Judge, Nelson Wolff, inviting and welcoming your participation. San Antonio would be honored to host a signing of the new pact. It is our hope that you will consider affirming USMCA in the same place where the trade relationship was officially brought into existence. While the text of the USMCA is still subject to additional modification and the critical implementing language is not yet available for our final evaluation of the new agreement, we remain hopeful that it can be promptly considered on a bipartisan basis next year. Lloyd Doggett Joaquin Castro
10.11.2018	U.S. Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh won his bitter confirmation battle, but some Democrats in Congress, and others hoping to join their ranks, still want a thorough investigation into sexual misconduct and perjury allegations leveled against him. The American-Statesman asked all Democratic members of Congress from Texas who are on the November ballot, and others in the state running in tight races to join them, if they would call for or support another investigation into the allegations. Those saying they support investigations: Veronica Escobar, the former El Paso County judge running to replace Democratic U.S. Senate candidate Beto O’Rourke; state Sen. Sylvia Garcia of Houston, running to replace retiring U.S. Rep. Gene Green, D-Houston; and U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett of Austin. No other Democrats responded. Doggett said he was troubled by the scope of the supplemental FBI investigation of Kavanaugh. “Trump’s mocking of a sexual assault victim and declaring those with similar allegations to be a ‘hoax’ is appalling. Since he and his Republican enablers in Congress have continually disparaged the work of FBI law enforcement professionals, I support an investigation into how Trump constrained the Kavanaugh investigation,” Doggett said in a statement. “This includes apparent limitations imposed on who the FBI could interview, what leads to pursue, and which allegations to investigate. We should seek the truth so that all Americans, especially victims and survivors of abuse, know that their lives and voices matter.” Garcia said news reports gave her little confidence in the FBI investigation. “I agree with (Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi) that the details of the FBI investigation need to be made available to lawmakers and the general public so we can determine if an additional investigation is needed,” Garcia said in a statement. “If additional action is needed it seems that a House investigation may be the last resort to ensure that we protect the integrity of the United States Supreme Court.” U.S. Rep. Jerrold Nadler, a Democrat from New York who stands to be the next chairman of the Judiciary Committee if his party wins control of the House next month, said before Kavanaugh’s confirmation that his colleagues would investigate the allegations if they’re returned to power. “It is not something we are eager to do,” Nadler said. “But the Senate having failed to do its proper constitutionally mandated job of advise and consent, we are going to have to do something to provide a check and balance, to protect the rule of law and to protect the legitimacy of one of our most important institutions.” FBI Director Christopher Wray told Congress Wednesday that the FBI background investigation into sexual assault allegations involving Brett Kavanaugh before he was confirmed to the high court was handled in a way “consistent” with other such probes. “My folks have assured me that the usual process was followed,” Wray testified to the Senate Homeland Security Committee in response to questions by Sen. Kamala Harris, D-Calif., about the White House’s involvement in the process. Wray declined to address whether the FBI investigated accusations that Kavanaugh lied during his Senate confirmation hearings, as Democrats have alleged. When Harris pressed Wray as to why the FBI did not interview Kavanaugh, his chief accuser, Christine Blasey Ford, or 40 other potential witnesses, the FBI director said the investigation was “very specific in scope, limited in scope, and that is the usual process.” Additional reporting from The New York Times and Los Angeles Times.
10.10.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 10, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Trade Deal with Duterte: Trump Would Reward Human Rights Abuses & Authoritarianism Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), a senior member of the House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, reacted to the anticipated Trump Administration’s notice of intent to begin negotiations for a free trade agreement with the Philippines: “Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte has openly committed grave human rights abuses, praises extrajudicial killings, promotes violence, threatens priests and indigenous peoples, discriminates against individuals with HIV/AIDS, and made abhorrent comments about rape. Claiming that trade negotiations with him would stop his murderous and tyrannical impulses is a phony cover for Trump plans to again reward a thug. This is yet another example of President Trump admiring and rewarding authoritarians. Like the tepid Trump response to Saudi Arabia’s apparent murder and dismemberment of an American resident working for the Washington Post, the Trump Administration raises human rights concerns against some adversaries but ignores gross misconduct by some of our purported allies.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @replloyddoggett
10.10.2018	President Donald Trump has signed a bill containing legislation designed to prevent medically unfit pilots from causing balloon crashes such as the tragedy that struck outside Lockhart more than two years ago. The balloon crash that killed 16 people outside Lockhart in July 2016 is among the deadliest in U.S. history and the deadliest aviation disaster since 2009. The Federal Aviation Administration Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 302) contained an amendment requiring medical certifications for hot air balloon pilots. Trump signed the bill into law on Friday. The National Transportation Safety Board found that the FAA’s lack of a rule requiring balloon operators to obtain medical certificates contributed to the Caldwell County crash. The hot air balloon amendment was championed by U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) and, prior to that, gained traction through the efforts of other local officials including State Rep. John Cyrier (R-Lockhart) and former Caldwell County Office of Emergency Management Chief Martin Ritchey, who now serves as head of homeland security for the Capital Area Council of Governments. “Finally, my amendment to ensure no pilot can fly without a medical certificate has been signed into law—and we successfully ensured that it was not watered down or changed in the long legislative process,” Doggett said. “This legislation was signed just as it was written: In memory of those we lost in Caldwell County, and thanks to the advocacy of their families and all those who prayed and petitioned after continued FAA inaction. “We cannot unring a bell, and we cannot bring these precious lives back. But now, with today’s progress, we hope that other families will be spared such pain.” The path to the amendment’s passage was a long one that began with the NTSB’s Robert Sumwalt, who was on scene following the balloon accident and Cyrier’s office, which remained in close contact with the NTSB following the crash to push for a public investigative hearing on the accident. “Thank you for all your help with the initiation of this process,” said Patricia Morgan, whose daughter and granddaughter died in the crash, in an e-mail to Cyrier sent on Tuesday. “I am forever grateful for your participation and happy this is a start to protecting others.” Cyrier said he was pleased to see the amendment pass. “To have been a part of this healing process that followed after this tragic event has been very important to me,” Cyrier said. In a public investigative hearing, the NTSB studies and identifies the errors and circumstances that contributed to an accident and can lead to discussions of policies and guidelines to help prevent them from being repeated. H.R. 302 also reauthorizes the Federal Aviation Administration and related revenue authorities through Sept. 20, 2023, modifies the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s disaster assistance authorities, provides $1.68 billion in emergency supplemental appropriations for the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Community Development Fund for long-term disaster recovery, further integrates unmanned aircraft into the nation’s airspace systems, and establishes a United States International Development Finance Corporation.
10.03.2018	Bexar County has been awarded four federal grants worth $3 million to fight opioid abuse and addiction, Congressman Lloyd Doggett announced Tuesday in San Antonio. "It will provide some treatment. It will provide for better county planning. It will build and back up the efforts that are already underway here in Bexar Country to address this crisis," Doggett said. All of the grant money is coming from the U.S. Department of Justice. Some of it will help pay for the Bexar County Opioid Prevention and Intervention Program, as well as the county's drug court. Another $750,000 grant will fund a new, specialized court docket for women who have both a diagnosis of mental illness and an addiction to opioids. "The county is doing a good job in focusing on therapeutic justice, not just locking people up and throwing away the key, because many of these folks were addicted thinking they were doing the right thing on their doctor's orders and with the encouragement of these pharmaceutical companies, we need to help them get back to the life they want to lead and participate in their families and be good taxpaying citizens," Doggett said. Congressman Lloyd Doggett and Angela White, CEO of Alpha Home, a residential drug and alcohol rehab center for women in San Antonio. Alpha Home is among the organizations that will benefit from the Justice Department grants. Credit Bonnie Petrie / Texas Public Radio Doggett added that this funding is a mere drop in the bucket considering the size and scope of the county’s opioid problem. He said he hopes the pharmaceutical companies that developed and marketed these drugs will be forced to help pay to fight it. “We need to be focused on getting the pharmaceutical companies that created a lot of this crisis to be held accountable and come up with some money for Bexar County and the rest of the country,” Doggett said. Bexar County sued several opioid manufacturers and distributors in May. The county leads the state in the number of babies born with symptoms of opioid withdrawal. It has the third-highest rate of overdose deaths in the state.
10.02.2018	SAN ANTONIO -- Bexar County continues to fight the opioid crisis. On Tuesday, the county received more than $3 million in federal funds to fight addiction and mental illness. Much of the money will go toward funding opioid programs First time Bexar County has created specialized docket for women with mental illness and opioid addiction Since establishment of Opioid Taskforce, Bexar County has received $20 million in federal funds That money is separated into four major grants. The grants ranging from $500,000-$900,000 will be used to fund the Bexar County Opioid Prevention and Intervention Program, the Bexar County Women’s Mental Health Court, the Bexar County Family Drug Court and the Bexar County Reentry Program. It's the first time that Bexar County has created a specialized docket for women who have a mental illness as well as an addiction to opioids. "There is a safe way to be treated for that through pregnancy, and it's a low, low dose so the babies are born with very little in their system," said Angela White with Alpha Home. "The women are good and the pregnancy is sustainable. So we need to manage that very carefully." "It will provide some treatment. It will provide for better county planning. It will build and back up the efforts that are already underway here in Bexar County to address this crisis," said Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas. Since the establishment of the Opioid Taskforce, a total of $20 million of federal grant money has gone to Bexar County. Some of that money has already gone to community education and training first responders with naloxone, which reverses overdoes.
10.01.2018	WASHINGTON—Investors greeted the completion of a new North American trade pact with relief Monday, lifting most indexes, as the Trump administration turned its focus on getting the deal through a divided Congress and toward even larger economic feuds with China. Uncertainty about trade has been a worry of businesses and investors for months, after Mr. Trump began advancing an ambitious agenda that included a new North American Free Trade Agreement, tariffs on U.S. metals imports and a rewrite of U.S. economic ties with China. The new U.S. Mexico Canada Agreement, which will replace Nafta, alleviated some, if not all, of those concerns. Among other things, it allows auto makers and other multinational companies to keep intact the complex and costly supply chains built across the continent since Nafta was completed in 1994. It also won new concessions for U.S. farmers and created new rules for digital commerce across the continent. General Motors Co. applauded the accord, saying it has long supported efforts to modernize the trilateral accord. “This agreement is vital to the success of the North American auto industry,” the auto maker said. “This gives some sign that [President] Trump is at some point willing to agree to some new trade deals,” said Jeroen Blokland, a multiasset portfolio manager at Dutch asset manager Robeco. At a White House ceremony Monday, Mr. Trump touted the deal as a big win for U.S. workers. Among other things, it requires that duty-free cars produced in North America have at least 75% of their content produced in the region and 40% of their content produced by $16-an-hour labor. Those provisions could lead to more auto production and jobs in the U.S. and Canada. U.S. dairy farmers also got what they wanted when Canada agreed to drop its complex “Class 7” system, which limited imports of certain dairy products from the U.S. It was a tough concession by Canadians that led to the weekend breakthrough after sometime bitter talks between the U.S. and its northern neighbor in the months leading up to the agreement. “We had to make compromises,” Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada said Monday. “And some were more difficult than others. We never believed it would be easy, and it wasn’t.” The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.7%, extending advances after posting its biggest one-quarter gain of the year. The S&P 500 climbed 0.4%, just short of its record. The Nasdaq dipped. The North American pact allows Mr. Trump to turn his attention to China, where trade disagreements are even thornier, and may free up U.S. negotiators to devote more attention to their nascent talks with the European Union and Japan. The tensions are highest with Beijing. The Trump administration has imposed tariffs on $250 billion of imported goods from China and threatened more if steps aren’t taken to close a more than $300 billion trade surplus with the U.S., block alleged intellectual property theft and reduce state support for the private sector. Mr. Trump, a Republican, must turn to political rivals at home to make the North American trade deal the law of the land, a test of bipartisanship in Washington at a moment of extreme political discord. Mr. Trump is counting on Democrats and traditional allies of Democrats including labor unions to help push the new pact through Congress and replace what Mr. Trump has long called the worst trade deal in history. The rules requiring car production by high wage workers could please U.S. labor unions and their allies among Democrats. But in approving the deal, Democrats would be handing Mr. Trump a victory on a pledge that helped to define his 2016 election and could be a signature of his 2020 campaign for reelection. On Saturday, at a political rally in West Virginia, the president called his rival party a “disgrace.” “I can’t tell you whether or not they will obstruct, whether or not they’ll resist,” Mr. Trump said. “They might be willing to throw [away] one of the great deals for people and the workers—they might be willing to do that for political purposes, because frankly they’ll have 2020 in mind.” Once Mr. Trump and his counterparts in Canada and Mexico sign the deal, targeted for the end of November, the new pact must win congressional approval to take force. Lawmakers will have an opportunity to weigh in, to request side deals or insist on special legislative provisions. The administration has said the congressional vote is likely to be in 2019. By then Democrats may have taken control of the House, and even if they haven’t, Mr. Trump’s trade advisers have long counted on Democrats to help advance a new North American trade deal through Congress. “I think this will pass with a substantial majority. The fact of the matters is, this is not a Republican-only agreement,” U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said Monday. “It was never designed to be a Republican-only agreement.” Democrats treaded carefully, acknowledging they could support the new pact but hesitated to commit. “As someone who voted against Nafta and opposed it for many years, I knew it needed fixing,” said Sen. Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader. “The president deserves praise for taking large steps to improve it.” Mr. Schumer, however, said he still needed to see more details on labor provisions. By leaving open the possibility of Democratic support for the deal, the Democrats also retain leverage to shape the legislation that will need to be passed by Congress to implement three-country the trade pact. Two major unions, the Teamsters and the AFL-CIO, stopped short of endorsements but appeared supportive, a shift from their oft-adversarial approach on trade deals. The Teamsters union said it was “pleased.” The AFL-CIO said some provisions were “a good start,” a suggestion it could look for side deals or special provisions in Congress to make it more appealing. Rep. Debbie Dingell (D., Mich.), who said she has been in regular contact with the administration and constituents about the parameters of a new trade pact, said she was open to supporting the revised pact. “I need to talk to the autos and suppliers and unions, but if they all think that this is going to be better; that it’s going to bring more jobs back, I will support it,” she said in an interview. Under the trade authorities in use to renegotiate Nafta, the White House gets to write the legislation implementing the new deal and is guaranteed to receive an up-or-down vote on their legislation in the House and the Senate. Congress cannot amend the text, but lawmakers can shape provisions in the implementing legislation. The administration is required to consult with Congress in drafting the implementing legislation. Congress, for example, could demand provisions in the implementing legislation that goes further than the text of the deal, such as additional labor protections for U.S. workers. Ohio Sen. Sherrod Brown, a Democrat with strong union ties, has said he will seek to ensure implementing language helps prevent outsourcing to other countries by U.S. firms. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D., Texas), said that “complete implementing language is also vital to my final evaluation and determination of what further adjustments may be needed.” The addition of Canada to the deal has led to a broad sigh of relief in Congress. For the past month, while the U.S. had reached a deal with Mexico, it was unclear whether Canada would agree to the new terms. The U.S. business community and many lawmakers would have resisted a deal without Canada given the extensive economic ties between the two nations. “We viewed a U.S.-Mexico deal as a non-starter in the Congress,” said Chris Krueger, managing director at the Cowen Washington Research Group, which tracks Washington policies. “We believe USMCA will be ratified next year, though there will be some heartburn if one (or both) houses of Congress flips.”
09.30.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 30, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Rep. Lloyd Doggett Releases Statement on New NAFTA Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), a senior member of the Trade Subcommittee of Ways & Means, and a representative of the place where the original NAFTA was signed, released this statement in reaction to the agreement to a new trilateral NAFTA: “Negotiators appear to have just barely made the midnight deadline before NAFTA was turned into a political pumpkin. Some progress and possibly some backsliding in the final text, but complete implementing language is also vital to my final evaluation and determination of what further adjustments may be needed. I remain hopeful that a truly improved NAFTA with both of our top two trading partners can be approved by a new Democratic Congress next year.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: replloyddoggett
09.28.2018	The U.S. Department of Justice on Thursday announced that Bexar County will receive $1.65 million in grant funding to continue efforts to battle the local opioid epidemic. The funding includes two separate grants to be distributed evenly over three years. A $900,000 grant will go toward funding a new full-time County position to address opioid abuse and misuse through developing and implementing a coordinated care plan. It will also be used to enhance residential treatment and prevention programs and fund the work of the Joint Opioid Task Force, whose one-year funding ends Sunday, said TJ Mayes, chief of staff for Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff. The second grant, worth $750,000, will be used to create a women’s mental health court that would work with women with mental health diagnoses and drug addiction, Mayes said. The County applied for the grant funding in June through the Bureau of Justice Assistance, an arm of the Justice Department that supports local criminal justice programs. Mayes credited the Texas Legislature’s strong bipartisan effort with securing the funding, including continued support from U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas). The funding “represents a major step forward in addressing out local opioid epidemic,” Doggett said in a Thursday statement. “Bexar County leads the state in infants born addicted to opioids. San Antonio also has the third highest per capita rate of overdose deaths. Securing these resources has been a bipartisan effort involving all of our Congressmembers.” Securing these grant marks a major achievement in the Joint Opioid Task Force’s second year of operation, which begins with the start of the new fiscal year on Oct. 1., the same day the grants will be distributed. The task force brings together more than 30 local public health experts, medical and pharmaceutical professionals, first responders, policymakers, public school district representatives, and social services agencies to address the opioid epidemic. “Substance abuse has a profound impact on our criminal justice system, our hospitals, and our social services agencies,” Wolff said in a Thursday statement. The Bexar County opioid task force is a model for inter-agency collaboration to fight substance abuse in our community.” On Sept. 20, representatives delivered to City Council a one-year progress report outlining headway made toward the four main objectives of the task force: treatment, prevention, education, and increasing the use of overdose reversal drugs locally. By the end of September, all San Antonio Police Department officers will have completed training to administer Naloxone, a drug that can reverse the effects of an opioid overdose and saved 1,869 lives in 2017, according to task force reports. The task force also trained other civilians, including family members of those struggling with addiction, and distributed more than 25,000 doses of the drug throughout the community. The task force also has helped establish a new 20-person opioid recovery residence, providing safe housing where women can live with their children while receiving addiction treatment. The home is located in Midtown and is set to open in October. “Receiving the funding is exciting because one of the questions we received from City Council following the one-year report was about how the task force planned to move forward” since it had only received funding for one year, Mayes said. “This funding will carry us through the next three years.”
09.27.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 27, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Rep. Lloyd Doggett and Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff Announce Grants to Address the Local Opioid Epidemic Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-San Antonio) and Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff announce two critical grant awards for Bexar County from the Department of Justice Bureau of Justice Assistance. These funds will be used for the Bexar County Opioid Prevention and Intervention Program, which will focus on residential treatment, outpatient treatment, and the hiring of a full-time planner to create a community wide strategic plan. Additionally, a portion of these funds will be used to treat women with mental illnesses and co-occurring opioid addition. Congressman Doggett noted: "This $1,650,000 over three years, represents a major step forward in addressing our local opioid epidemic. Bexar County leads the state in infants born addicted to opioids. San Antonio also has the third highest per capita rate of overdose deaths. Securing these resources has been a bipartisan effort involving all of our Congressmembers. “As an active participant in our Joint Opioid Taskforce, I have seen the leadership of Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff, Mayor Ron Nirenberg, Metro Health Director Dr. Colleen Bridger, and Dr. Bryan Alsip, University Health System. While this is an important first step, I look forward to approval of modest, new federal opioid legislation tomorrow in Congress and to continue working together to access additional federal dollars to backup our local response to the opioid crisis. Lasting success includes prioritizing prevention and treatment services, expanding naloxone training and distribution programs, and reducing soaring monopoly prices for these lifesaving overdose reversal drugs.” “Thanks to Congressman Doggett and the entire Bexar County congressional delegation for a strong bipartisan effort to help us fight the opioid epidemic. Substance abuse has a profound impact on our criminal justice system, our hospitals, and our social services agencies. The Bexar County opioid task force is a model for inter-agency collaboration to fight substance abuse in our community,” said Judge Wolff. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: replloyddoggett
09.27.2018	The U.S. House of Representatives has approved a new bill to make flying in a hot air balloon safer for the pilot and passengers. This comes more than two years after the deadly hot air balloon crash in Lockhart, Texas. The crash in July 2016 was the deadliest hot air balloon crash in U.S. history, killing 16 people. The new bill is called the "Doggett Amendment," after Congressman Lloyd Doggett who introduced it. The new measure would require medical exams for commercial balloon pilots. As it stands now, health screenings for these types of pilots are not required by the Federal Aviation Administration. National Transportation Safety Board investigators blame the 2016 crash on the pilot's poor judgment and that he was probably impaired by a mixture of drugs. The new safety bill forces the FAA to revise federal regulations within 180 days to mandate annual medical screenings. The screenings are similar to what airline and helicopter pilots must undergo.
09.27.2018	KTBC covers U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett's passage of his hot air balloon safety legislation. We have successfully passed our aviation safety legislation in the House of Representatives in memory of those that lost their lives in the 2016 Lockhart hot air balloon crash. For the many who prayed and mourned the loss resulting from this unnecessary tragedy, know that you have been heard. We cannot bring these precious lives back. But now, with today’s progress, we hope no more families will be exposed to the horror of a crash from an impaired pilot. Video of KTBC Austin: Passage of my Balloon Legislation
09.27.2018	KENS covers U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett's passage of his hot air balloon safety legislation. We have successfully passed our aviation safety legislation in the House of Representatives in memory of those that lost their lives in the 2016 Lockhart hot air balloon crash. For the many who prayed and mourned the loss resulting from this unnecessary tragedy, know that you have been heard. We cannot bring these precious lives back. But now, with today’s progress, we hope no more families will be exposed to the horror of a crash from an impaired pilot. Video of KENS San Antonio: Passage of Safety Legislation in Honor of Victims of 2016 Lockhart Crash
09.27.2018	WASHINGTON — Proposals to expand the new tax law by adding incentives for savings and startup businesses have passed the House as Republicans push legislation forward ahead of the approaching midterm elections. The votes Thursday were 240-177 and 260-156, mostly along party lines, to approve a pair of Republican-written measures. The action was a prelude to an expected vote Friday on broader legislation to make permanent the individual tax cuts now set to expire in 2026 under the tax law. House Republican leaders are portraying the second crack at tax cuts as championing the middle class and small businesses. Prospects for the legislation are unclear in the Senate. One of the measures would create a “universal savings account” for families that could be used for a range of purposes. Democrats unanimously opposed the $1.5 trillion tax law signed into law in December by President Donald Trump, and they similarly oppose the new legislation. With the midterm elections looming in less than two months, polls have shown only lukewarm support among voters for the package of individual and corporate tax cuts that became Trump’s signature legislative achievement. House Republican leaders are portraying the second crack at tax cuts as championing the middle class and small businesses. But support for the legislation has been diminished by election pressures faced by GOP lawmakers from high-tax states where residents are hurt by the tax law’s limits on state and local tax deductions. About a dozen Republican House members, facing tough re-election fights in the high-tax, Democratic-leaning states of New York, New Jersey and California, voted against their party’s tax law and are likely to oppose the new legislation. The GOP lawmakers are pushing to hold onto their seats in relatively affluent suburban districts where Trump is unpopular. Residents in those states could see substantial increases in their federal tax bills next spring because of the $10,000 cap on state and local deductions in the tax law. The legislation to be voted on Friday would make the cap permanent. One of the measures cleared by the House Thursday would create a “universal savings account” for families that could be used for a range of purposes and would allow the tax-free earnings to be more easily withdrawn than is the case with existing retirement accounts. In addition, it would allow the popular, tax-free 529 college savings accounts to also be used to pay for apprenticeship fees and home schooling expenses, as well as to pay off student debt. Workers would be able to tap their retirement savings accounts without tax penalty to cover expenses from the birth of a child or an adoption. A second measure would allow startup businesses to write off more of their initial costs against their federal taxes. New businesses would be permitted to deduct more of their expenses for setting up in the first year — up to $20,000, double the current maximum level. The proposal “will allow more businesses to move from their kitchen table to their first office,” said Rep. Kevin Brady, R-Texas, chairman of the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee. Democrats said there were some positive elements in the legislation, but that overall they would not help average Americans. “Probably not your family,” said Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas, referring to the proposed new savings accounts. “It’s all about helping those at the top.” The accounts would mainly benefit wealthy taxpayers, with about $100,000 in annual income needed to take full advantage of it, Doggett maintained. He said people with more modest incomes likely would end up shifting savings from other kinds of accounts into the new one.
09.27.2018	WASHINGTON — The Trump administration and Congress are on a collision course over the fate of the North American Free Trade Agreement as the White House prepares to release text of a trade deal with Mexico that does not include Canada. Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, said on Thursday that while the administration still hopes to strike a deal with Canada, he is confident that lawmakers would greenlight a revised Nafta that includes only Mexico. “If for whatever reason we don’t reach an agreement with Canada, we’ll have an agreement with Mexico, a great agreement,” Mr. Mnuchin said at an event sponsored by the newspaper The Hill. “I’m confident that Congress will pass that.” Lawmakers, however, have expressed deep reservations about any deal that does not include Canada, suggesting it would not have the votes to pass. Mr. Mnuchin’s comments came a day after President Trump lashed out at Canada, saying it mistreated the United States on trade, and threatened to impose tariffs on Canadian automobiles if a deal is not reached. Mr. Trump, speaking at a news conference, claimed that he had rebuffed a request from the Canadian prime minister, Justin Trudeau, for a meeting and criticized Canada’s trade negotiator, Chrystia Freeland, the foreign affairs minister. “We don’t like their representative very much,” Mr. Trump said. Mr. Mnuchin struck a more diplomatic tone, noting the importance of the trade relationship with Canada and expressing optimism that the few remaining “open items” could be settled. “We reached a deal with Mexico,” he said. “Why shouldn’t we be able to reach a deal with Canada?” The sputtering Nafta negotiations have rattled the nerves of members of Congress whose constituents depend on trade relationships with both Canada and Mexico. Still, the White House is expected to release text of the deal it struck with Mexico as early as Friday, a development that suggests the White House is not going to wait for Canada to sign on to the deal. Robert E. Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, met with key lawmakers on Thursday to deliver what senators said was a pessimistic assessment of the state of negotiations with Canada. But he left several questions unanswered, including whether Mr. Trump was prepared to pull out of Nafta if Canada did not sign a new agreement — and what rules would presumably govern trade with Canada in the event that Congress passed a Mexico-only agreement. Senator John Thune, Republican of South Dakota, told reporters that Mr. Lighthizer had told lawmakers that the United States and Canada remained far apart on negotiations. “I’m not at all optimistic at the moment,” Mr. Thune said. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan, said that it was possible for Canada to join the agreement with Mexico by November, even if the administration submits bilateral text to Congress this week. But any agreement, she said, “needs to be North America, to be the most effective.” Congressional staff members cautioned that the administration would find little support on Capitol Hill for a deal that excluded Canada entirely, and that there was little appetite for pulling out of Nafta without a trilateral agreement to replace it. They also said that the agreement with Mexico alone would be unlikely to move to a vote in the House if Democrats win control of the chamber in November’s elections. Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said that an agreement that excluded Canada would be much harder to pass in the Senate because it might not qualify for the trade protection authority provisions that would allow such a measure to be ratified with just 51 votes. While some Senate Democrats agree with some of Mr. Trump’s goals on revising Nafta, they made clear on Thursday that they would punish him politically for excluding Canada. “It would be a monumental mistake to do this without Canada,” said Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, the top Democrat on the Finance Committee. “It’s basically surrendering on fixing Nafta.” Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas, said that Mr. Lighthizer had told him that he would be releasing text of the agreement with Mexico this weekend and that he was hopeful that Canada would come on board after its provincial elections in early October. Mr. Doggett said he was not ready to say if he would reject an agreement with just Mexico, but said he had urged Mr. Lighthizer to keep working on the Canadians. “Those supply chains are very important, and it’s important that this not devolve into a bilateral agreement,” Mr. Doggett said. One staff member said Mr. Lighthizer had raised the possibility of imposing additional tariffs on Canada similar to the ones Mr. Trump has placed on China in the event that the Canadians cannot come to an agreement with the United States. The United States has so far put tariffs on $250 billion worth of Chinese goods like machinery, electronics and fish. Canada is already incensed over the administration’s steel and aluminum tariffs, which Mr. Trump put into effect earlier this year. Mr. Trump, meanwhile, is angry about Canada’s dairy tariffs and has threatened to tax Canadian-made cars if they do not allow American dairy farmers greater access. Mr. Trudeau was undeterred on Thursday, saying Canada would not bend to the United States demands, including elimination of a dispute settlement mechanism that allows Nafta countries to challenge each other outside the nations’ official court systems. “The Americans are finding that the negotiations are tough because Canadians are tough negotiators, as we should be,” Mr. Trudeau said in Ottawa. “But a good, fair deal is still very possible.”
09.27.2018	Following a meeting with U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, several Democrats on the House Ways & Means Committee said the earliest Congress was likely to vote on a NAFTA-like deal is February or March. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) told reporters on Thursday that Lighthizer, “in response to my question,” said that “probably the soonest that we could vote on this agreement, even if it’s just a bilateral with Mexico, is next February or March.” Lawmakers also expressed frustration over what they described as vague or incomplete answers from Lighthizer about how the administration planned to move forward if Canada does not join before text of the U.S.-Mexico deal is released. That text is expected on Friday. Some also said it remained unclear what would happen if Canada wanted to join the deal later -- if, for example, the Trade Promotion Authority “clock” would restart. Doggett said Lighthizer cited an analysis that must be conducted by the U.S. International Trade Commission in offering up a possible time line for a vote on implementing legislation. Under TPA law, the ITC’s report is due 105 days after a trade agreement is signed, though it can be submitted earlier. The U.S. and Mexico are hoping to sign the deal before Dec. 1. “Given the ITC review and everything [February or March is] probably the earliest that we would be able to consider it, and that seems reasonable,” Doggett said. “I had some concern that there might be some last-minute effort to push something through, cutting deadlines and the like, but that’s I think a responsible and realistic position.” Several lawmakers said the overall message conveyed by USTR during the meeting was that Canada should be a part of the deal, but that more progress had to be made before that could happen. Asked if he would support a U.S.-Mexico bilateral deal, Doggett said the implementing legislation would provide more clarity on many remaining questions. “We’ve had so many problems with implementation before, and [Lighthizer] indicated he would put out a summary near the time of announcing any agreement on what that implementing legislation will look like,” Doggett said, adding he could not say for sure whether a U.S.-Mexico deal was something he could support until the details of the implementing legislation were released. “I think it was a constructive discussion. He laid out reasons why we don’t have Canada there yet, and his objective is still to get a tripartite, true NAFTA, but that there’s some major obstacles and that he didn’t feel that Canada’s been negotiating in good faith,” Doggett said. Almost all committee members, he continued, “don’t believe you can have a new NAFTA without all three parties, but he made a strong case for the need for Canada to make more concessions -- to make some concessions -- in order to get there.” But Rep. Brian Higgins (D-NY) said the way the administration has been “trumpeting this deal with Mexico” and excluding Canada is “unacceptable.” Asked if the deal’s text would include Canada, Higgins said Lighthizer was not “clear” in his answer, though he “indicated there was no deal with Canada but the hope is that Canada will come in later on.” Ron Kind (D-WI) said that he told Lighthizer he thought the USTR viewed the 2015 Trade Promotion Authority law as “more of a set of suggestions or guidelines rather than a requirement to work closely with Congress.” “[Lighthizer] acknowledged that they need to be doing more outreach, and hopefully they will,” Kind said. As for the “clock” under TPA law, and whether it would restart if Canada does join the deal, Kind said “It’s not clear. It’s been frustrating. Obviously, many of us are pushing for a trilateral to come back, but we also want a good deal. And I made the point too that a lot of what’s happening in the negotiations with Canada was a self-inflicted wound. When you unilaterally impose tariffs against some of our closest friends and allies, and declare them a national security threat to the United States, I wouldn’t expect them to come to the table in good faith negotiations and cede to all our demands.” The U.S., Kind continued, “created a terrible political domestic environment” for Canadian representatives to contend with. “The last thing they need to do is to go back to their constituents and it appears that they’re succumbing to a bully across the border. This is something the administration has created in this negotiation,” Kind asserted. He added that Lighthizer did not definitively say there was a path forward on Section 232 tariffs. The lawmaker said he also asked the USTR “about Mexico, whether there are any chapters or provisions that are not completed yet, and I didn’t get a good response from him on that.” “So, I’ve got to follow up with him,” he added. “There was no response to that question. So, I want to follow up. I’m hearing that this thing is not completely put to bed. There are some remaining issues that need to be resolved.” Rep. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), ranking member of the trade subcommittee, said the USTR made clear “they are trying to do the best they can in terms of getting to a Mexico agreement,” but added that this week was simply one step in a multi-tiered process. “So, we are really at the end of stage one. Stage two we are getting into specifics. Stage three is when congress approves and the president signs. This thing is now moving into February of next year,” Pascrell contended. “I don’t see a vote coming before then.” “The question is the first period ends Sunday -- Canada is not part of that. We will have some kind of text with Mexico but when we go into the next phase when we are trying to figure out language of enforcement -- things like that -- we will continue to try to be negotiating with Canada and my feeling is that we can do this legally under the present law if we bring Canada into this thing later, which we should have as a major objective,” he said. “Nobody on either side wants us to capitulate to Canada,” Pascrell continued, though he also warned against “insulting Canada.” On Wednesday, President Trump said he rejected a one-on-one meeting with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau because Canada was dragging its feet in trade talks with the U.S. A spokeswoman for Trudeau, however, said no such meeting was ever requested. Pascrell said that he thought Lighthizer was “doing the best that he possibly can” and said he lamented other distractions. “I wish he was the engineer driving the train rather than simply doing all of the hard work, then having someone on sidelines yelling from the mezzanine,” Pascrell said. Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA) said she understood USTR’s “dilemma” with Canada because Ottawa has taken a hard line in some key areas, such as a cultural carveout aimed at protecting its creative industries. “I raised the issue of the cultural carveouts, which is very one-sided and hurts our U.S. creative industries such as television and movies, which is important to me representing Los Angeles,” she told Inside U.S. Trade. Asked if she felt that progress could be made in the coming months on the issue, Chu responded: “Well, actually, what I got the sense was that the ambassador was very frustrated with his dealings on these issues and on the issues of dairy and so forth. I’m not sure if there can be progress in the short run.” Asked whether she would support a U.S.-Mexico deal, she said “it remains to be seen. Chu added that the “principle” behind NAFTA was trilateral. “So, the principle is important,” she said. Lighthizer, she continued, “made the point repeatedly that he has been in negotiations with Canada for 14 months and they've not made much progress on five main issues including dairy and cultural carveouts.” Rep. Suzan DelBene (D-WA) reiterated concerns that USTR’s notice to Congress last year was for a trilateral -- not bilateral -- deal. “We were never given notice that this would become a bilateral,” she said. Asked if she got the sense from Lighthizer that Canada and the U.S. were working toward a solution, DelBene said “I think if he had a solution with Canada as well then he would have had talked to us about that today.” -- Isabelle Hoagland (ihoagland@iwpnews.com)
09.26.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 26, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Rep. Doggett Releases Video Message as Doggett Amendment on Hot Air Balloons, in Honor of Lockhart Victims, Passes House Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) released the following video message as his amendment to require pilot medical certificates for commercial hot air balloon operators passed the House of Representatives. Rep. Doggett authored this legislation after the 2016 crash in Lockhart, Texas, where 16 people lost their lives in the deadliest commercial balloon crash in our history, the worst aviation disaster in America this decade. After years trying to get FAA to act, and repeated efforts to get his hot air balloon safety amendment attached to a must pass bill that never seemed to move, finally—over 2 years after this tragedy—the legislation for which the survivors petitioned will become law and other families may be spared such pain. “Passage of my passenger safety bill is the result of the dedicated work of the families and all who petitioned for this belated action,” Rep. Doggett said. “For the many who prayed and mourned the loss resulting from this unnecessary tragedy, know that you have been heard. We cannot bring these precious lives back. But now, with today’s progress, we hope no more families will be exposed to the horror of a crash from an impaired pilot.” View his video message to constituents and the victims’ families: ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: replloyddoggett
09.26.2018	A bill containing legislation designed to prevent medically unfit pilots from causing balloon crashes such as the tragedy that struck outside Lockhart more than two years ago is expected to receive full Congressional approval and be signed into law by President Donald Trump as early as next week according to officials involved with authoring the bill. The balloon crash that killed 16 people outside Lockhart in July 2016 is among the deadliest in U.S. history and the deadliest aviation disaster since 2009. The Federal Aviation Administration Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.B. 302) contains an amendment requiring medical certifications for hot air balloon pilots. The National Transportation Safety Board found that the FAA’s lack of a rule requiring balloon operators to obtain medical certificates contributed to the Caldwell County crash. The hot air balloon amendment was championed by U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) and, prior to that, gained traction through the efforts of other local officials including State Rep. John Cyrier (R-Lockhart) and former Caldwell County Office of Emergency Management Chief Martin Ritchey, who now serves as head of homeland security for the Capital Area Council of Governments. Representatives in Doggett’s office said before press time Tuesday they believed the House would pass the bill this week and the Senate would pass it next week. “It no longer has opposition,” said Kate Stotesbery, Doggett’s communications director. “My balloon safety amendment has been included in the Federal Aviation Administration Reauthorization bill that is now moving to the president’s desk to be signed into law. Shortly after the horrifying crash near Maxwell in August 2016, I urged the FAA to act on its own,” Doggett said. “While re-urging this action after the NTSB findings, the FAA remained unresponsive. A year ago, I authored and obtained bipartisan support for a safety bill. “Now finally that proposal has been included in this ‘mustpass’ legislation to require a medical certificate for hot air balloon pilots. Had the pilot in this crash been required to obtain a medical certificate, the NTSB believes he would not have been flying that morning. “This is a victory for the victims’ families, who petitioned for this action, and for the many in Caldwell County who prayed and mourned for the loss resulting from this unnecessary tragedy. Hopefully, it means that no more families will be exposed to the horror of a crash from an impaired pilot.” Ritchey also offered a comment early Tuesday. “We hope that the House and Senate act quickly and that President Trump signs this legislation into law to protect other families from experiencing the losses family’s suffered that day in Caldwell County,” he said. The path to the amendment’s passage was a long one that began with the NTSB’s Robert Sumwalt, who was on scene following the balloon accident and Cyrier’s office, which remained in close contact with the NTSB following the crash to push for a public investigative hearing on the accident. In a public investigative hearing, the NTSB studies and identifies the errors and circumstances that contributed to an accident and can lead to discussions of policies and guidelines to help prevent them from being repeated. “Had the pilot in this crash been required to obtain a medical certificate, the NTSB believes he would not have been flying that morning,” - U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas
09.22.2018	Drug price a failure Re: “Drug ODs perilously high in Texas,” Editorial, Sept. 12: UT Health San Antonio’s response to the opioid crisis by distributing lifesaving naloxone overdose drugs to our Fire Department is encouraging. The soaring cost of these drugs is overwhelming many communities. As an ABC News headline reported, “Health Workers Ration Opioid Overdose Antidote Amid Price Hikes.” Taking advantage of a nationwide problem, pharmaceutical companies have spiked the price for naloxone by almost 700 percent. In a rare U.S. surgeon general advisory, the public was urged to carry naloxone, but for most the price is prohibitive. I previously joined a plea from the city of Baltimore to use an existing law to lower prices and offered a related amendment to recent legislation. Unfortunately, this Trump-dominated Congress only wants to create the appearance of addressing this opioid crisis, while refusing to deal with either price gouging or necessary treatment resources. Instead of looking to medical and substance abuse experts, President Donald Trump has handled this as a communications problem by entrusting federal leadership to his propagandist extraordinaire, Kellyanne Conway. Like his abandoned promises to lower prescription drug costs, Trump has failed completely to meet the opioid challenge. Congress should help consumers and provide a strong federal backup for local governments and nonprofits to prevent overdose deaths and offer the treatment that so many desperately need. Hopefully, next year we will have the votes to do just that. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-San Antonio
09.18.2018	Around nearly every corner of the bustling U.S. House of Representatives on Wednesday, Sept. 5, from the Rayburn building to Longworth, you could spot burnt orange. For the fourth-annual Longhorns on the Hill, UT President Greg Fenves, Texas Exes Executive Director Chuck Harris, BBA ’86, Life Member, and small groups of Texas Exes advocates spent a full day day speed-walking through the halls of the Capitol, darting between 30 meetings held with members of the Texas delegation. Whether through a lengthy sit-down around a long table in a congressional office, a hallway chat, or even an impromptu mid-committee hearing meeting with Rep. Lloyd Doggett, BBA ’67, JD ’70, Life Member, UT alumni made their voices heard about the value of higher education. “It’s important to be loud not just on gameday,” says Debra McKeown, BJ ’86, Life Member, who has attended Longhorns on the Hill every year since it began in 2015. “Having worked on the Hill myself, I understand that members and their staff have a tremendous amount of issues demanding their focus. We need to help them understand how they can help UT continue its mission to be a university of the first class.” One way advocates feel that legislators can help further that mission? By increasing federal dollars for research at public universities. Research from UT Austin brings in more than $724 million to the Texas economy. And, as Fenves told a full house at the Longhorns on the Hill Congressional Breakfast Wednesday morning, that research—like the MassSpec Pen, a breakthrough device that can detect cancerous tissue in real time—is changing the world. And yet, funding for higher education continues to decline. In 2013, UT Austin received around 73 percent of its research funding from federal sources—by 2015, only 56 percent of research funding came from federal sources. At Longhorns on the Hill, advocates specifically asked lawmakers to increase money to federal agencies like the National Science Foundation (NSF)—who announced in August a grant that will position UT to have the fastest supercomputer at any U.S. university and pave the way for important discoveries in all fields of science—and the National Institutes of Health, whose funding made the MassSpec Pen a reality.
09.18.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 18, 2018 Contact: Michael Ahn 202-225-4865 Rep. Doggett’s Response to San Antonio Selected As Winner of the 2018 RWJF Culture of Health Prize Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), releases a statement in response to San Antonio’s recognition as one of four winners of the 2018 RWJF Culture of Health Prize awarded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. The Prize honors communities for their unwavering efforts to ensure all residents have the opportunity to live healthier lives: “Congratulations to San Antonio, one of four cities across the U.S. awarded the Culture of Health Prize from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation—and only the second in Texas. This prize is a well-deserved national recognition of San Antonio’s innovative ideas and commitment to providing comprehensive and compassionate health care to marginalized communities.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: replloyddoggett
09.15.2018	The Trump administration's border clampdown has placed a record number of immigrant children in U.S. custody, the New York Times reports. The 12,800 immigrant children now held at Health and Human Services sites, such as South Texas' Tornillo tent city, represents the highest such detention level ever, according to the Times. In comparison, there were 2,400 children in HHS custody in May 2017. The information comes to light shortly after revelations that the administration quietly shifted $200 million in federal funds, including $10 million from FEMA, to fund immigrant detentions and deportations. “Trump’s child abuse policies continue both to impose trauma on immigrant children and unnecessary costs on American taxpayers," said Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-San Antonio. "ICE just requested an extra $1 billion. Better for all to release these children to family in the United States. Trump can create problems; he just cannot resolve them.” The rise in incarcerations also occurs as the Trump administration said it will defy a court order that requires the federal government to release immigrant children after 20 days in detention. "The record number of detained immigrant children is the direct result of the Trump administration’s ‘zero tolerance’ policy," said Efrén C. Olivares, racial and economic justice director at the Texas Civil Rights Project. "And just last week, we learned this administration is seeking to circumvent previous court orders to imprison these children indefinitely. The remedy for this manufactured crisis is not, and never will be, keeping children from their families or indefinitely locking up more and more families in prisons. The administration has the power to end zero-tolerance today."
09.13.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 13, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Rep. Doggett Offers Amendment to Prevent More Multinational Corporation Giveaways Until GOP Delivers on $4,000/Family Promise Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Tax Policy Subcommittee of Ways & Means, offered an amendment to prevent more tax breaks for multinationals until Republicans deliver on Trump’s promise of wage increases for working families. Watch his full remarks here. Excerpts below: “To sell this sorry tax bill, the Trump Administration told a number of whoppers. But one of the biggest whoppers is this one, from the Executive Office of the President, on November 14, 2017: When they told us that this tax bill would increase average household income by at least $4,000 annually. $4,000 every year as a result of this sorry tax bill. This amendment is about holding them to their word, putting their money where their mouth is. It would not let multinational corporations get any further tax breaks until Republicans keep their commitment to deliver the $4000 per family. The latest overpromised but underdelivered gimmick Americans were unexpected to fall for is that these tax breaks for giant corporations would trickle down to families. Their core argument was: ‘Trust us, slashing corporate taxes would inevitably lead to higher wages.’ No matter that large multinationals were already reaping historic profits and had plenty of cash to share with their workers if they had chosen to do so. Like Mexico paying for the wall, that $4,000 promised to working families never seemed to show up. Where did the tax breaks go? So far, corporations have spent over 100 times as much to reward shareholders to reward stock buybacks as they have sent on wage hikes and bonuses.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: replloyddoggett
09.13.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 13, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Rep. Doggett Offers Amendment to Secure Trump Tax Returns, Meet the Nixon Standard Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Tax Policy Subcommittee of Ways & Means, offered an amendment to release President Trump’s tax returns as the Ways & Means markup continued on the second round of unpaid for Republican tax breaks for the wealthy. Watch his full remarks here. Excerpts, as prepared, below: “The stench of corruption permeates this Administration, and it comes right from the top. This amendment is designed to end the Republican coverup of Trump’s tax returns. While this amendment seeks to achieve the same result that I have sought with 5 prior attempts in this committee, it includes extensive new findings from some of the notable developments of recent months that make clear we are not only dealing with the self-described ‘King of Debt,’ but someone who continues to act as if he were just King. Trump’s tax returns relate directly to what is before us today. There is no issue this Committee could consider more important than the integrity of our tax code, and the faith that the American people have in our democracy. Trump has surrounded himself with convicted tax evaders – rich friends who have decided they are above the law, and that working people who can’t afford fancy tax lawyers should have to pick up the slack. Even Richard Nixon invited the Joint Committee on Taxation to review his tax returns, explaining that ‘people have got to know whether or not their President is a crook.’ While this Committee has refused to do its job—while in this Congress instead of oversight, we have been overlooking Administration misconduct—the President’s tax returns have in fact already been reviewed. That was a review that, amazingly, President Trump presented as his ‘Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval ‘to assure America he had no business dealings with the Russians.’ It was a review of his tax returns by his personal law firm, which, of course, gave him a clean bill of health on any Russian connection—only months after it boasted of the ‘prestigious honor’ of being named ‘Russia Law Firm’ of the year. I am only asking that this Committee do for the American people what the ‘Russia Law Firm of the Year’ has done for Mr. Trump. Before this Committee considers a dime of more tax breaks, we must obtain and review the President’s tax returns. Any tax bill released should be accompanied by a line-by-line report of how much Trump, his family, and his companies will benefit from each one. His tax returns can help tell us whether he is putting America First, or Trump first, his family second, and Russian third.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: replloyddoggett
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON—House Republicans are advancing a measure to lock in last year’s tax cuts on individuals beyond their scheduled expiration date at the end of 2025, moving to build on their biggest legislative victory ahead of the midterm elections. The Ways and Means Committee is heading toward a vote Thursday along party lines, as lawmakers debate whether last year’s tax cut has helped the country and consider the consequences of adding further to federal budget deficits. The full House plans to vote by the end of the month, though the lack of interest in the Senate means the bill’s fate is uncertain. Republicans say the 2017 tax law is spurring economic growth and that the extension would offer certainty to businesses and households and put money into families’ pockets. “The economic recovery that passed over so many individuals and families in our country is now reaching them,” said Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R., Fla.). The tax law is “certainly a part of the story, and anyone who fails to recognize that is just not sharing a complete picture of what’s happening.” Democrats said some of their constituents would pay more in taxes, highlighted sluggish growth in real wages and warned that Republicans would use growing deficits as a reason to argue for future cuts in Medicare, Social Security and other programs. “We have something that is truly disastrous headed our way and it’s not just a hurricane,” said Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D., Texas). “It is a deficit-busting tax giveaway.” The bill would remove the 2025 expiration date from the individual tax cuts that Republicans enacted last year. The larger standard deduction, expanded child tax credit and lower tax rates that took effect this year would continue beyond that point. So would the shrunken alternative minimum tax and estate tax and the new deduction for businesses such as partnerships that report their earnings on their owners’ individual tax returns. Limits on tax breaks would get extended, too, including the $10,000 cap on the deduction of state and local taxes and the repeal of the deduction for personal exemptions. “We must keep building off the momentum from last year’s tax reform to ensure our economy keeps booming,” said Rep. Kevin Brady (R., Texas), the committee’s chairman. On top of last year’s $1.5 trillion tax cut, the new proposal would reduce federal revenue by $631 billion over the next decade, according to the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation. Most of that cost is packed into the end of the decade, and the cost beyond that would be much larger. Under the new tax law approved by Congress, the standard deduction is going up and the personal exemption is going away. But these changes won't be visible until your 2019 returns. WSJ's Richard Rubin explains the recipe behind the changes that are coming to your tax bill. Lawmakers sparred Thursday over who would benefit the most. Republicans pointed to data showing that middle-income families would see the biggest decrease in their federal tax bills on a percentage basis. Households making between $40,000 and $50,000 would get an 8.1% tax cut in 2026, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation. Democrats focused on where the bulk of the tax cut goes—to high-income households. Taxpayers making more than $200,000 would get 44% of the benefits, according to the same analysis. “The sequel is just more of the same failed trickle-down economics,” said Rep. Bill Pascrell (D., N.J.), comparing the bill to the critically panned 1987 movie “Jaws: The Revenge.” The assess the effects of tax legislation, many experts favor measuring the size of a tax cut as a share of after-tax income. By that metric, households in the 95th through 99th percentile of income would get the biggest benefit, seeing their taxes drop by 3.3% of income, according to the Tax Policy Center, a research group run by a former Obama administration official. That is more than double the benefit for households in the middle of the income distribution. Last year’s tax law included the expiration dates because of the way Republicans passed it. They used a fast-track process known as reconciliation, which let them enact the tax law without Democratic votes in the Senate. But it came with restrictions, including a requirement that it not increase budget deficits beyond 2027, which led them to include the expiration of the individual tax cuts. Republicans did make a corporate-tax cut permanent, and they enacted revenue-raising provisions to remove the penalty for not purchasing health insurance and change the inflation metric for tax-code provisions. Any move now to get rid of the individual expiration would require 60 votes in the Senate and thus Democratic support, and Republican leaders have shown little interest in holding a vote. Republicans also Thursday are considering a separate bill designed to make it less costly for small businesses to offer 401(k) type plans and allow individuals save more and make their savings last longer. For example, the bill would eliminate the required minimum distributions that individuals age 70½ or older must take from their IRAs and 401(k)-type accounts—although the provision would only apply to those with a cumulative balance of up to $50,000. It would also allow individuals to contribute as much as $2,500 a year of after-tax money into a new type of universal savings account, where the money would grow tax-free and could be used for nonretirement purposes. A third bill would expand tax breaks for startup businesses.
09.13.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 13, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Don’t Keep Patients in the Dark on Drug Prices: Bipartisan Legislation to End “Gag Clauses” Passes Energy and Commerce Committee Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, joined a bipartisan set of lawmakers to introduce legislation that would prohibit “gag clause” provisions. Right now, some Pharmacy Benefit Managers include contract provisions (known as “gag clauses”) that prohibit pharmacists from advising patients on ways to purchase their medications for less. With families across our Nation concerned about soaring prescription drug prices, this legislation would end these restrictive and anti-consumer, anti-patient provisions. To ensure professional pharmacists can provide comprehensive pricing information to patients, Rep. Doggett introduced the Know the Lowest Price Act (H.R. 6144) and the Patient Right to Know Drug Prices Act (H.R. 6143) some time ago. These bills are supported by the American Medical Association, the National Community Pharmacists Association, the National Association of Chain Drugs Stores, and the American Psychiatric Association. Companion legislation introduced by Senators Collins and Stabenow are being considered in the Senate. Today, the House Energy and Commerce Committee approved legislation combining Rep. Doggett’s bills into one bill, The Know the Cost Act, H.R. 6733, which was introduced last Friday with 9 bipartisan original sponsors. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) offered the below statement on this progress: “Pharmacists should not be restricted from telling patients of a way to purchase their medications for less. This very modest proposal combines two bills, which I introduced some time ago, into one measure that can now become law. We will now have an enforcement mechanism that will help ensure transparency at the pharmacy counter so some consumers, burdened with medication costs, can now access information to select the least expensive alternative.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: replloyddoggett
09.13.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 13, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 GOP Tax 2.0 Markup Begins: Trump Purchases GOP Silence with Another Giveaway to the Wealthy Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Tax Policy Subcommittee of Ways & Means, spoke as the Ways & Means markup began concerning the second round of unpaid for Republican tax breaks for the wealthy. Watch his full remarks here. Excerpts below: “It’s well known that our Republican colleagues don’t believe in climate change. This week we have some demonstration that they question hurricanes—at least letting them get in the way of another disaster, which is this bill. At least we have a week in Washington where ‘stormy’ refers to something natural in terms of disasters. This is about weatherizing and protecting the tax breaks that were adopted last year to try to ensure that the special benefits that were made available to the wealthiest few and the largest multinationals are protected on a long-term basis. The cost of the bill today, the cost of the bill that was adopted last year, is very high. More than a half a trillion dollars this year, with this proposal. The tax bill’s cost is not measured in dollars alone. Silence is one of the big costs of this bill. Silence from Republicans daily—silence about this President and all the wrongs that are being committed. Republicans will pay any price, bear any burden, ignore any tweet tantrum, as long as billionaires are protected with their tax breaks. In short, it’s sealing lips to seal this tax bill.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: replloyddoggett
09.12.2018	CLOTURE TIME: There's been no shortage of fits and starts, but Chuck Rettig's nomination to be IRS commissioner takes another big step this afternoon, when the Senate holds a key procedural vote. The big question no longer is whether Rettig will get confirmed — in fact, it'd be a shock if he wasn't by the end of the week. But it will be interesting to see how many votes Rettig attracts from Democrats, after his nomination advanced on a party-line vote in the Senate Finance Committee in July because of Democratic objections to a separate Trump administration policy change that allows political nonprofits to give less information about donors to the IRS. It's not exactly unusual anymore when one of President Donald Trump's nominees collects a lot of opposition from Democrats in the Senate. But it will be interesting to see if Rettig — a veteran California tax lawyer who Democrats have acknowledged is qualified for the commissioner's job — racks up the no votes the way that controversial nominees like Education Secretary Betsy DeVos did. One other matter to keep in mind: Will Rettig's somewhat rocky nomination process cause some further bumps when he's in place at 1111 Constitution Ave. NW? Rettig has taken some issues with Democrats' handling of his nomination, including their criticism of his rental property on the eve of his hearing and their blanket opposition in committee over the donor disclosure matter, according to people who know him and are closely watching the process — but those people also expect those issues to be pretty easily put in the past. POLITICO Pro CANADA — CROSS-BORDER POLICY INTELLIGENCE FOR POLICY PROFESSIONALS — IS NOW LIVE. Navigate the twists and turns of Canada-U.S. trade talks and policy discussions in technology, health care, agriculture, energy and more. If you have an interest in cross-border intelligence or a stake in the Canada-U.S. economic relationship, learn more here. LET'S TALK 2.0: It's official — the House Ways and Means Committee will consider its second round of tax cuts on Thursday morning, H.R. 6756 (115), H.R. 6757 (115) and H.R. 6760 (115). (At least one senior Democrat on the panel, Rep. Lloyd Doggett of Texas, knocked the GOP for holding the markup around the time Hurricane Florence is expected to make landfall around the Carolinas.) Let's get official: The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated the cost of the new plan at $657 billion — though as Pro Tax's Brian Faler noted, that projection also understates the true impact by a fair bit. That's because the 2.0 measure would extend the individual provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, H.R. 1 (115) , that expire at the end of 2025, meaning that only three years' worth of tax cuts are included in the 10-year budget window. And in fact: The Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, in calling the new package the "height of fiscal irresponsibility," estimated that 2.0 would cost $5 trillion over two decades when including interest. How about retirement? That portion of 2.0 has been seen as perhaps the only part that actually has a chance to become law this year, given bipartisan interest in the issue on the Senate side as well. But as Patrick Temple-West from the Financial Services team notes, critics hit out at the House for shearing off some of the provisions in the Senate bill from their own. "The House bill does not spare certain charities and cooperatives such as rural broadband providers from paying high insurance premiums to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp., the federal agency established to fulfill pension obligations in the event an employer defaults," Patrick writes. A 1.0 interlude: Remember when Kevin Hassett, the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said on Monday that the corporate tax cut had basically paid for itself already? As Bloomberg's Lynnley Browning reports, even some big fans of the tax law said that statement was a bit aggressive. Stephen Moore of the Heritage Foundation called it "a little premature, because we don't know how long this boom will last."
09.11.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 11, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Rep. Doggett Reaction to Republican Refusal to Postpone Thursday’s Tax Vote Despite Evacuation of Over One Million for Hurricane Florence Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, offered the below comment on the Republican refusal to postpone the tax vote as Hurricane Florence approaches: “While we knew they didn’t believe in climate change, now House Republicans apparently don’t even believe in hurricanes. Is questioning gravity next? No natural disaster is big enough to slow Republicans from another human-made disaster—borrowing hundreds of billions more to lock in tax breaks for the wealthiest few.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: replloyddoggett
09.11.2018	Nearly half the non-elderly people in San Antonio and its surroundings could lose protection for their pre-existing medical conditions if Texas wins its current anti-Obamacare lawsuit, according to data from the Center for American Progress. According to a 2017 CAP survey broken down by congressional district, about 1.6 million non-elderly people in the five districts serving San Antonio have pre-existing medical conditions. More than 26 percent of that total — or 423,800 people — are between the ages of 18 and 44. Republicans, who have spent nearly decade trying to crater Obama's Affordable Care Act, are now hanging that hope a lawsuit filed by Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton and Republican officials from 19 other states. The suit, now playing out in a Fort Worth courtroom, claims the act is unconstitutional since the Republican tax bill eliminated the penalty for people who don’t have health coverage. If the ACA's protections are tossed out, people with pre-existing conditions, including arthritis, diabetes or even pregnancy could face higher insurance costs or denial of service, act proponents warn. “Apparently, our Republican colleagues are afflicted with their very own special type of pre-existing condition: it’s called ‘amnesia,'" Rep. Lloyd Doggett, whose district includes San Antonio, said during the Democrats' weekly radio address. "They have forgotten about all the suffering, for so many, before the Affordable Care Act became the law of the land." More than twenty-five patient groups, including the Diabetes, Heart and Lung Associations, Susan G. Komen, American Cancer Society, the March of Dimes and the MS Society have come out against replacing protections found in the current law, Doggett added. A recent survey from the Kaiser Family Foundation also found that 75 percent of Americans don't want those protections reversed.
09.11.2018	Rep. Doggett joined KXAN in Washington to discuss President Trump’s comments on shutting down the government and asking taxpayers to pay for his border wall. Video of KXAN: My Remarks on Trump&amp;#039;s Demand to Fund His Border Wall
09.07.2018	September 7, 2018 Contact: Henry Connelly (Pelosi), 202-226-7616 Kate Stotesbery (Doggett), 202-225-4865 Congressman Lloyd Doggett Delivers Weekly Democratic Address Washington, D.C. – Congressman Lloyd Doggett of Texas, a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee, delivered the Weekly Democratic Address. In this week’s address, Doggett highlights Republicans’ latest assault on protections for Americans with pre-existing medical conditions, in contrast to Democrats’ agenda to lower health care costs and prescription drug prices For The People. Video and audio of the Weekly Democratic Address can be downloaded here. Below is a full transcript of the address: “Hello, I’m Congressman Lloyd Doggett, and I represent communities deep in the heart of Texas from San Antonio to Austin. My neighbors are telling me to defend their access to health care. “Amidst all the noise of the repeated tweetstorms from what some of his own employees have recently described as ‘Crazytown,’ President Trump has teamed up with his House Republican enablers to undermine health insurance protections for millions of Americans. “Remember the courageous vote last year of the late Senator John McCain? His powerful thumbs down stopped Republicans in what was their 60th plus attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act. “But it didn’t stop them, later, from driving up families’ health care costs with provisions in their Republican tax scam for the wealthy. “This week, in a United States District courtroom in Fort Worth, a Texas Republican relied upon their tax changes to demand termination of any protection for Americans who have a pre-existing medical condition. The Trump Administration agreed, refusing to defend this current, vital safeguard upon which 130 million Americans with pre-existing conditions rely. “Who will suffer from this Republican collusion to strip protection for pre-existing conditions? People like Priscilla, in San Antonio who asked me to help her father, who was recently diagnosed with cancer. If Republicans win, he could lose essential coverage. Priscilla just wants him to be able to enjoy his first grandchild and fight his cancer, not his insurer. “Over the past year, we’ve heard countless stories from families all across America just like Priscilla’s – from mothers of children with heart conditions, from the loved ones of people with asthma, diabetes, mental illness, substance abuse and every other type of malady. “Yet Republicans keep trying to destroy the protections people with pre-existing conditions need to afford health care. “Last year, 217 House Republicans voted for the Trumpcare bill that would have undermined these key safeguards. And they still haven’t learned their lesson. “Recently, I introduced, myself, an amendment in the Committee on which I serve to reaffirm protections for pre-existing conditions. But every single Republican committee member voted once again to deny this critical guarantee. “So as President Trump showers himself with these tweetstorms of self-pity – there is little pity or willingness to help those who would be stripped of affordable health insurance. At the White House, in Congress, and now at the courthouse, Republicans are there pulling out all the stops to stop this important protection. “Apparently, our Republican colleagues are afflicted with their very own special type of pre-existing condition: it’s called ‘amnesia.’ They have forgotten about all the suffering, for so many, before the Affordable Care Act became the law of the land. They would return us to an era of discrimination – back to the days of fine print and junk insurance policies. If you could afford coverage, then it probably wouldn’t cover you when you need it most. “Instead of calling out Trump’s dangerous and misguided attacks on our healthcare, Republicans keep enabling him. I know it’s difficult for folks across the country to determine the truth about who claims what in Washington. But over twenty-five patient groups, including the Diabetes, Heart and Lung Associations, Susan G. Komen, American Cancer Society, the March of Dimes, and the MS Society, they all got the facts here. They said, we should ‘not replace critical protections in current law.’ Recognizing the immense suffering that would be inflicted by this Republican approach, these nonpartisan groups said that this is ‘not acceptable for the patients we represent.’ And it is certainly not acceptable. “The best way to guarantee that we strengthen health care and protect pre-existing condition coverage – the best way to strengthen and change the law for the better – is to change the lawmakers. To have a Congress that puts the needs of families ahead of the special interests. “Democrats, we’re For The People – and we mean to take real, specific action to: lower your health care costs and those prescription drug prices that have soared at ten times the rate of inflation; increase your pay through strong economic growth by rebuilding America; and clean up this awful corruption to make Washington work for you. “Ensure you make your voice heard. Together, we can stop the undermining of our health care security. Thank you so much.” # # #
09.06.2018	
09.05.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 5, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Defending Patients with Pre-Existing Conditions as Texas Lawsuit Begins Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, today joined Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, their colleagues, and patients to sound the alarm on Republican attempts to end protections for those with pre-existing conditions. As oral arguments begin in Texas on a lawsuit to strike down protections for people with pre-existing conditions, Rep. Doggett made the following remarks, which you can view here and read below: “House Republicans seem to be afflicted with a serious pre-existing condition. It’s called ‘amnesia.’ They have forgotten how much those with pre-existing conditions—almost half of the population in Texas—how much they suffered before the Affordable Care Act, unable to find affordable coverage. At the White House, in Congress, and now in the courts, Republicans are pulling out all the stops to stop those with pre-existing conditions from obtaining comprehensive health insurance coverage. At this very moment, in a U.S. District courtroom in Fort Worth, a hearing is underway in the case of Texas v. U.S. That would pull us backward to an era of discrimination. Back in the days of fine print and clever caveats, if you could afford your coverage, it usually meant it didn’t cover you when you needed it. But instead of closing the uninsured gap, Republicans are dead set on throwing more families into the uninsured abyss. In July, I introduced an amendment in the Ways and Means Committee to require insurance coverage of preexisting conditions. Every Republican voted against that protection. The only way to change our health care law for the better is to change the lawmakers who are, at every turn, undermining it.” Patient Kelly Gregory, who grew up down the road from the childhood home of Sam Houston, is a veteran and a single mother, a business owner, and, most recently, a health care activist living with stage 4 (metastatic) breast cancer. Speaking of her experience with being denied coverage for pre-existing conditions, she shared: “If we allow this lawsuit to go through, and we allow Republicans in Congress to decimate health care the way they want to, I stand here today as essentially a ghost of Christmas future. To show you the possibilities that could happen if we go back to the way things were. I stand here today, a rebuke to those in political leadership who would say that no one in this country dies for a lack of health care. I’m here as a witness to say to those who would say that it is ‘deranged’ to say that the decisions that are made inside these walls are going to lead to people’s deaths. Sometimes, when you tell the truth, it can sound deranged. Now, my story is not extraordinary because it’s unique. It’s extraordinary because it happens in this country every day… Bring this issue to light.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: replloyddoggett
09.05.2018	09/05/2018 07:57 AM By Nolan D. McCaskill House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and Reps. Frank Pallone Jr. (D-N.J.), Bobby Scott (D-Va.) and Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) will hold a news conference with people with preexisting conditions as oral arguments begin in the GOP lawsuit Texas v. United States to strike down protections at 10 a.m. EDT (9 a.m. Central) in H-207.
09.04.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 4, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Dangerous & Authoritarian: Trump Should Not Reward Philippines’ Duterte with Trade Deal Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), and all House Ways & Means Trade Subcommittee Democrats today urged the Trump Administration not to pursue a new trade deal with President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines in the attached letter. The Administration is apparently eager to send notice to Congress of its intent to begin negotiations with the Philippines soon: “Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte has openly committed grave human rights abuses, praises extrajudicial killings, promotes violence, threatens priests and indigenous peoples, discriminates against individuals with HIV/AIDS, and just made abhorrent comments about rape. This is yet another example of President Trump deliberately rewarding authoritarians. Duterte’s atrocities should not be awarded by Trump with a trade deal: No sweet trade-deal hugs for thugs. There are more appropriate partners for any new trade agreement.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: RepLloydDoggett
09.03.2018	Whether you are learning your way around the 40 Acres or embracing your last year, I have always known Longhorns to work hard, tackle obstacles and give back to our community. We face tough challenges from those who oppose student aid for higher education. I believe that an investment in you is an investment in America’s future. Now, more than ever, we need educated leaders like you who can lead our community forward with skill and moral clarity. As the next generation of leaders, your commitment to civic involvement is critical. I developed a love of public service as UT student body president. Now, from Washington, I am working to ensure other students have the same opportunity by serving students and making higher education more affordable. WORKING FOR YOU: UT, which attracts students from across the globe, also prepares students to compete globally. As Longhorns, we know that “What starts here changes the world.” But we will not see this progress if education becomes unaffordable to most. As the cost of college continues to skyrocket, we should increase student financial assistance. The Pell Grant, which supports students with the highest financial need, only covers 29 percent of the average cost of attendance at a public four-year university. Yet the President has proposed a $3.8 billion cut to education spending, slashing Federal student aid by $203 billion over 10 years. That move would limit the federal government’s ability to reduce interest on student loans, adding thousands to student debt. I will persist and resist budget cuts to critical funding for education from Pre-K to post-grad. Every Longhorn relies on an open internet, but there is no guarantee that it will stay that way. With a complete disregard for public opinion, Trump’s Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman led the repeal of net neutrality rules, allowing the creation of fast lanes for some customers while competitors are forced to use the internet equivalent of a dirt road. As a longtime advocate for an open net for all, I am sponsoring a congressional resolution to override the FCC’s decision. With the support of three Republicans joining all Democrats, the U.S. Senate has already passed this resolution, but Republican leadership continues to block a vote in the House. MAKING PROGRESS: To make college more affordable, I have supported legislation limiting interest rates on federal loans and to provide more student Pell Grants. I also authored provisions in the American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC), allowing a tax cut of up to $10,000 on education expenses such as tuition, textbooks and fees. I authored the Equitable Student Aid Access Act to offer the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) available earlier, make more students eligible for the full Pell Grant amount and enable qualifying students to answer fewer questions in completing this overly complex form. SUPPORTING DREAMERS: Some Longhorns are “Dreamers” — they got to Texas as fast as their parents brought them. They have cleared a criminal background check, paid a fee and are pursuing their studies in the only country most have ever known. As a longtime sponsor of the DREAM Act, I believe that their future must be nonnegotiable. We must reject Trump and his Congressional enablers, who would expose them to deportation to countries they barely know. GET INVOLVED: Throughout your time at UT, I encourage you to remain engaged on campus and in the community. Make your voice heard. If there were ever a time for Longhorns to unite and participate in government, it is now! Our very democracy is in peril. We must act together to restore some genuine checks and balances. I hope you each choose to join in making a difference by registering to vote — where you now live, here in Austin — prior to the deadline, Tuesday, Oct. 9. One way to register is by visiting www.Register2Vote.org, which provides a simple registration process. I welcome students to get involved as interns in my Austin, San Antonio or D.C. offices. As a lifelong Longhorn who grew up a few blocks from campus, met my wife on campus and was originally elected to represent all University neighborhoods, I am working to serve you. Congressman Doggett represents Texas’s 35th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.
08.31.2018	WASHINGTON - The White House said Friday it had notified Congress it plans to sign a North American trade deal with Canada and Mexico, calling talks with Canada "constructive." "We are on pace to complete an agreement with Mexico and hopefully with Canada," a senior White House official said Friday. "The talks [with Canada] were constructive and we've made progress." After a year of negotiations President Donald Trump had set a Friday deadline for the United States and Canada to reach a deal on the North Agreement Free Trade Agreement, following the announcement of a preliminary deal with Mexico on Monday. Tensions rose Friday when the Toronto Star reported that in an off-the-record conversation Trump had told reporters from Bloomberg News he had no intention of compromising with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. "Here's the problem. If I say no — the answer's no. If I say no, then you're going to put that, and it's going to be so insulting they're not going to be able to make a deal ... I can't kill these people," Trump reportedly said. The timing of this week's trade talks with Canada were seen as critical, because the White House is trying to sign a new trade pact before Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto leaves office Dec. 1, and Congress is required to take 90 days for review. But the White House could have some flexibility under federal trade law. While the White House has to notify Congress of a trade deal 90 days ahead of time, it is only required to submit the language of that trade deal 60 days ahead of time, said Josh Zive, a Washington trade attorney with the law firm Bracewell. "Congress could be notified of an agreement in principle today, either with both parties or only with Mexico, and Canada could be added in during next 30 days," he said in an email. U.S. and Canadian officials are scheduled to resume talks on Wednesday, the White House official said. Trump has told Canada it needs to end tariffs on U.S. dairy products, or else face U.S. tariffs on Canadian-made automobiles. Canada has so far refused to meet Trump's demands on the dairy tariffs, which it argues serves to support its domestic dairy industry in much the same manner the United States maintains a federal crop insurance program to aid its farmers. "At the end of the day, we are only going to sign a deal that's good for Canada," Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland, who was in Washington meeting with Trump officials, told the Washington Post Friday. Without Canada in the trade deal, Trump could face a tough road in getting it through Congress. Republicans and Democrats across the board have raised their objection to a bilateral deal with Mexico. Speaking with reporters Wednesday Senate Majority Leader John Cornyn, R-Texas, said without Canada it would, "reduce the likelihood that it would actually be approved." But when pressed as to whether he himself would support a bilateral deal with Mexico, Cornyn said, "I continue to believe it would be preferable to have a deal with Canada as well, but I think a deal with Mexico is better than no deal, and I would support that." Trump's volatile negotiating style was starting to grate on some in Congress, who are used to the quieter, behind the scenes approach of previous administrations. "In typical Trump fashion, amidst ever more insults, the administration spins a non-agreement into an agreement," Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-San Antonio, said in a statement. "He provides us no specific language, only boasts about what a great deal he has achieved. Though Trump may be satisfied to claim victory by changing NAFTA's name, many of us are committed to genuine reform." For now most political observers believe Canada, which sends 75 percent of its exports to the United States, will ultimately have to make a deal with Trump. But some are questioning at what cost to the two countries relationship. "The U.S. has all the leverage in the world. but just because you can doesn't mean you should," Bruce Heyman, the former U.S. ambassador to Canada, said on CNBC Friday. "The relationship will be damaged much longer than it takes the ink to dry if we keep squeezing Canada."
08.31.2018	U.S. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos is planning new rules that would bolster the rights of college students accused of sexual misconduct. The rules also would narrow the definition of sexual harassment and hold schools accountable only for formal complaints filed through proper authorities regarding conduct on campus. Here is some of the reaction in Texas to the plan, for which proposed rules have yet to be published: State Sen. Kirk Watson, D-Austin: “The effect of these proposed rules will be to silence survivors, particularly those who are assaulted off campus, and allow for further intimidation and hostility. This is an embarrassment and a terrible setback. It’s crucial that when the notice and comment period does open up, folks take the opportunity to tell the U.S. Department of Education that these rules are unacceptable and fail to create an equitable system for both the accused and survivor.” Chris Kaiser, direct of public policy and general counsel, Texas Association Against Sexual Assault: “We hope that the leaked version is not the rule that is promulgated. But if the proposed rule rolls back protections for sexual assault survivors and makes it harder to hold schools liable when they look the other way from sexual assault and harassment, we’re ready to oppose that strenuously.” Austin lawyer Brian Roark: “The reported proposed rule changes to Title IX procedures by the Department of Education would go a long way towards restoring fairness to a process that has tilted towards being rigged against the accused, typically men. Providing for discovery procedures not currently allowed and, most importantly, cross examination of the accuser, would provide meaningful due process that is currently absent but much needed. From institutions which are founded solely on principals of discovery and intellectual rigor, we should have been expecting a commitment to fairness and accuracy all along, instead of political correctness.” Laylan Copelin, spokesman for the Texas A&M University System : “We are going to continue on our rules as we rolled them out earlier this month until there are new regulations formally in place. Nothing has changed for us.” Shilpa Bakre, spokeswoman for the University of Texas at Austin: “The Title IX Office is committed to supporting the university’s mission to create and maintain an educational and work environment free from all forms of sexual harassment, sex discrimination, exploitation and intimidation in which all students, faculty and staff can learn, work and thrive. We cannot speculate on proposed legislative changes to the Title IX regulations from the Department of Education but are working swiftly to understand the implications. We will review our policies when any changes are officially published and share them with the campus community.” U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin: “We want to ensure that survivors of sexual assault can obtain justice. The Trump administration makes that already difficult task harder. Shielding the perpetrators will keep crimes in the shadows. This approach reflects the same indifference to abuse of women as (President Donald) Trump showed in the ‘Access Hollywood’ video.”
08.31.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 31, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Rep. Doggett on Today’s NAFTA News Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), a senior member of the Trade Subcommittee of Ways & Means and the sole Texas Democrat, released the below statement regarding the today’s trade developments: "In typical Trump fashion, amidst ever more insults, the Administration spins a nonagreement into an agreement. Lacking Mexican and Canadian accord, he provides us no specific language, only boasts about what a great deal he has achieved. Though Trump may be satisfied to claim victory by changing NAFTA’s name, many of us are committed to genuine reform to ensure health and safety measures are not undermined by foreign interests and that environmental and labor standard provisions are strengthened. It will take bipartisan support to secure Congressional approval. My goal remains a renewed NAFTA with all three countries that works for consumers, workers, and businesses while protecting our environment.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: replloyddoggett
08.31.2018	Back to school — an exciting time for students from pre-K to college. August brings stores filled with school supplies, reunions of friends and the approach of Friday night football. Recently at San Marcos High, I saw an auditorium full of enthusiastic faculty, staff, administrators and community supporters gathered and ready to launch a new school year, and at Strahan Coliseum, 6,000 new Bobcats. The SMISD theme this year: “make a difference today for someone who is fighting for their tomorrow,” reflects the commitment to foster resiliency and confidence in our students. I believe that an investment in education is an investment in America’s future, and an important foundation for our future is being built right here. Strengthening our San Marcos Community: Since its earliest days with a one-room school house and later with the opening of Old Main as Southwest Texas State Teachers College, San Marcos has been recognized as a center for educational excellence. Your investments across the district investments are making a difference, as San Marcos was named one of the “Best Communities of Music Education” by the NAMM Foundation for the third year in a row. Investment in student achievement means that the Lady Rattlers volleyball team are nationally recognized for their GPAs. With the recent record-setting approval of school bonds, pay raises for faculty and staff, and one of the largest graduating class of Rattlers ever seen, the progress continues, beginning with Bonham Pre-K. I am particularly pleased to see the expansion of our dual-language program to four of our elementary schools. Since that’s the type of valuable public education initiative in which my granddaughters continue to learn, I have seen the benefits firsthand of proficiency in two languages. Protecting our Public Schools & Reaching for Higher Education: When he signed the Elementary and Secondary Education Act into law, Lyndon Johnson described education as the “only valid passport out of poverty.” More than 50 years later, I am working to ensure public education is protected, higher education is affordable, and all children have the opportunity to reach their God-given potential. Education is vital to our economic security and democracy. Even after a diploma is received, too many students face financial obstacles to furthering their education. I have supported legislation to limit interest rates on federal loans and to provide more Pell Grants and other types of federal student assistance. I also wrote provisions in the American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC), which authorized a tax cut of up to $10,000 on education expenses such as tuition, textbooks, and fees. Some students are discouraged from applying for student aid due by the complicated Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form. To remove this barrier, I have introduced the Equitable Student Aid Access Act. This legislation would simplify the FAFSA, make it available earlier in the school year, make more students eligible for the full Pell Grant amount, and enable qualifying students to answer fewer questions to complete the already complicated form. Strong public education is not only about economic success. As Republic of Texas President Mirabeau Lamar declared: an educated mind “is the guardian genius of democracy.” This year, as our democracy can feel like it is under siege by those that would divide us through bigotry, hatred and ignorance, we have a special responsibility to use our educated minds well. Working for You: In the next few weeks, as school bells across Texas ring in the new school year and college mascots spread school spirit, know that I join with you. As students settle into their classrooms, I too will be working to ensure that your priorities are my priorities. And I continue to encourage college and high school seniors to apply for an internship in my Austin, San Antonio, or Washington, D.C. offices. As always, I welcome your counsel on or questions about the challenges we face in education and other federal matters. --- Lloyd Doggett represents Congressional District 35, which inludes San Marcos
08.30.2018	WASHINGTON —President Donald Trump informed Congress on Thursday that he is canceling pay raises due in January for most civilian federal employees, citing budget constraints. But the workers still could see a slightly smaller boost in their pay under a proposal lawmakers are considering. Trump said he was axing a 2.1 percent across-the-board raise for most workers as well as locality pay increases — an annual pay adjustment based on the region where an employee works — that he said averaged 25.7 percent and cost $25 billion. “We must maintain efforts to put our Nation on a fiscally sustainable course, and Federal agency budgets cannot sustain such increases,” Trump said in a letter to Congress. The president last year signed a package of tax cuts that is forecast to expand the deficit by about $1.5 trillion over 10 years. One union leader in Austin called the decision frustrating. “We’ve put in many millions and millions of dollars that were given up since the economy went bad 10 years ago,” said Eddie Walker, president of a local National Treasury Employees Union chapter, which represents federal workers across numerous departments and agencies, including the Internal Revenue Service, U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the National Park Service. “We’ve done more than our share. Now that the economy is better, we deserve a raise.” Walker’s chapter represents about 1,500 federal workers, but it wasn’t immediately clear how many people in Central Texas would be affected by the president’s decision. Officials at the LBJ Presidential Library at the University of Texas said they heard about Trump’s announcement but did not have further details. Recently, their focus has been on meeting the administration’s directive to trim staff positions and preparing for a possible government shutdown this fall, said Kyle Longley, the library’s director. “We’re just in the planning stages,” he said. “We’re hoping for the best but planning for the worst.” Trump cited the “significant” cost of employing federal workers as justification for denying the pay increases, and called for federal worker pay to be based on performance and structured toward recruiting, retaining and rewarding “high-performing Federal employees and those with critical skill sets.” Under the law, the 2.1 percent raise takes effect automatically unless the president and Congress act to change it. Congress is currently debating a proposal for a slightly lower, 1.9 percent across-the-board raise to be included in a government funding bill that would require Trump’s signature to keep most government functions operating past September. Many Democratic lawmakers criticized the announcement, including U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett of Austin, who said Trump treats federal workers like “a punching bag.” “With one action after another, he demonizes public servants, who assure Social Security and Medicare, public health, tax collection, law enforcement, civilian support of our military, care for veterans and other vital services,” Doggett said in a statement Thursday. “These workers face the same price hikes for food and housing as other members of our community. Republicans borrowed money to shower billionaires with huge, unjustified tax breaks, but refuse to accord valued federal employees even a modest cost of living adjustment.” In July, the Trump administration sharply revised upward its deficit estimates compared with the estimates in the budget proposal it sent Congress in February. The worsening deficit reflects the impact of the $1.5 trillion, 10-year tax cut, as well as increased spending for the military and domestic programs that Congress approved this year. The administration’s July budget update projected a deficit of $890 million for the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30, up from the February estimate of $873 billion. The $890 billion deficit projection represents a 34 percent increase from the $666 billion deficit the government recorded in 2017. For 2019, the administration is projecting the deficit will once again top $1 trillion and stay at that level for the next three years. The only other period when the federal government ran deficits above $1 trillion was during the four years from 2009 through 2012, when the government used tax cuts and increased spending to combat the 2008 fiscal crisis and the worst economic downturn since the 1930s. Walker said the Trump administration targets departments and agencies that don’t have his favor. For those that Trump likes, “there is no emergency,” Walker said. “There is no sacrifice required.” “We’ve been kicked around the block a lot,” he said, “and we’re all patriotic people, and we believe we represent the public and do it with a high degree of quality and enthusiasm.”
08.28.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 28, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Insecurity Distributed: Selling 3D-Printed Guns Threatens Public Safety Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), reacted to the announcement from Texas-based Defense Distributed that they will sell 3D-printed guns in spite of yesterday’s court decision: "Insecurity is the real product that Defense Distributed is distributing. We must overcome this scheme to thwart all efforts to assure the safety of our schools, airports and other public places. A new Congress could pass The Untraceable Firearms Act, which I am sponsoring, to assure enough metal in these weapons to make them detectable by existing screening devices and to require an identifying number at the time of manufacture to assure their traceability by law enforcement. While we cannot undo all of the damage that the Trump Administration has conspired to promote, we should enact reasonable gun safety measures to reduce the danger. Meanwhile, I hope the court in Seattle can broaden its order to prevent this effort at circumvention.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
08.27.2018	WASHINGTON — President Trump on Monday said the United States and Mexico had reached agreement to revise key portions of the North American Free Trade Agreement and would finalize it within days, suggesting he was ready to jettison Canada from the trilateral trade pact if the country did not get on board quickly. Speaking from the Oval Office on Monday, Mr. Trump touted the preliminary agreement with Mexico as a new trade pact that could replace Nafta and threatened to hit Canada with auto tariffs if it did not “negotiate fairly.” “They used to call it Nafta,” Mr. Trump said. “We’re going to call it the United States Mexico Trade Agreement,” adding that the term Nafta — which he has called the “worst” trade deal in history — had “a bad connotation” for the United States. Yet while Mr. Trump may want to change the name, the agreement reached with Mexico is simply a revised Nafta, with updates to provisions surrounding the digital economy, automobiles and labor unions. The core of the trade pact — which allows American companies to operate in Mexico and Canada without tariffs — remains intact. Now, the question becomes whether a trilateral pact becomes a bilateral deal — or if Mr. Trump’s threats pressure Canada to return to the negotiating table and accede to many of the United States’ demands. The president’s apparent willingness to move on without Canada prompted confusion and concern among lawmakers, who said it may not be legally permissible, let alone smart, and businesses whose supply chains depend on a deal encompassing Canada, Mexico and the United States. “Because of the massive amount of movement of goods between the three countries and the integration of operations which make manufacturing in our country more competitive, it is imperative that a trilateral agreement be inked,” Jay Timmons, president and chief executive of the National Association of Manufacturers, said in a statement. Mexican officials said on Monday that they wanted to have Canada back in the process and were working toward a trilateral deal by the end of the week. Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto, who joined the White House announcement via phone, said “It is our wish, Mr. President, that now Canada will also be able to be incorporated in all this.” But later in the day, Luis Videgaray Caso, Mexico’s foreign minister, signaled that Mexico might be willing to move forward without Canada. “We’ll put all our effort, 24/7, to promote that Canada continues to be a part of this agreement and we work on this extremely hard,” Mr. Videgaray told reporters on Monday. Both the Mexicans and Americans have been eager to reach a fully revised Nafta deal by the end of August, a date that would give the Trump administration enough time to notify Congress that a deal had been finalized and still have that deal be signed by the outgoing Mexican administration of Mr. Peña Nieto. “Ideally we’ll have the Canadians involved,” Robert E. Lighthizer, the United States trade representative said, adding that the administration planned to officially inform Congress by Friday of its intent to sign a new deal, a step that is required before Congress votes on a trade pact. “If we don’t have Canada involved, we will notify that we have a bilateral agreement that Canada is welcome to join.” Chrystia Freeland, the Canadian foreign minister, will travel to Washington, D.C. on Tuesday to continue negotiations, Adam Austen, her spokesman, said Monday. “We will only sign a new Nafta that is good for Canada and good for the middle class. Canada’s signature is required,” Mr. Austen added. The revised deal with Mexico makes significant alterations to rules governing automobile manufacturing, in an effort to bring more car production back to the United States from Mexico. Those changes are being watched carefully by the United States auto industry, which has expressed concern that the Trump administration’s efforts to rewrite Nafta could raise prices of American-made cars and trucks. Automakers like General Motors and Ford have set up plants in Canada and Mexico, and American automakers routinely import car parts from other countries. Under the changes agreed to by Mexico and the United States, car companies would be required to manufacture at least 75 percent of an automobile’s value in North America under the new rules, up from 62.5 percent previously, in order to qualify for Nafta’s zero tariffs. They will also be required to use more local steel, aluminum and auto parts, and have 40 percent to 45 percent of the car made by workers earning at least $16 an hour, a boon to both the United States and Canada and a win for labor unions, which have been among Nafta’s biggest critics. “Automakers urge the U.S. and Mexico to quickly re-engage with Canada to continue to build on this progress,” the Alliance of Auto Manufacturers, which represents most carmakers that sell vehicles in the United States, said in a statement. “The industry is hopeful that any changes to Nafta auto rules of origin continue to strike the right balance by incentivizing production and investment in North America while keeping new vehicles affordable for more Americans.” In a briefing Monday, administration officials said that the United States and Mexico had also come to an agreement on a controversial “sunset clause,” proposed by the Trump administration, that would cause Nafta to automatically expire unless the three countries voted to extend it. The two countries agreed to a review of the trade pact every six years that would extend its lifetime for 16 more years, officials said. That longer time horizon would give lawmakers a chance to review the trade pact’s progress, while also giving businesses certainty for the immediate future. The countries also came to an agreement that would limit the kinds of legal challenges that investors can currently make against foreign government under Nafta. The oil and gas, infrastructure, energy generation and telecom industries are exempted from these more restrictive rules, and will continue under their previous terms, Mr. Lighthizer said — a win for those industries. It is unclear how eager Canada will be to sign on to a deal containing these revisions. But any agreement that doesn’t involve Canada is likely to face legal challenges and intense opposition from Congress, which had granted the Trump administration authority to renegotiate Nafta as a trilateral deal. Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin G. Hatch, a Republican from Utah, said in a statement that improving Nafta would help American businesses, manufacturers and farmers but that a bilateral deal was not the answer. “To achieve that goal, a final agreement should include Canada,” he said. “Once again, President Trump is announcing a victory before he has an agreement,” said Lloyd Doggett, a Democratic Congressman from Texas. “While avoiding a trade war against Mexico, our #1 Texas trading partner, we cannot secure a complete, improved North American agreement without Canada, our #2 trading partner.” Senator Ben Sasse, a Nebraska Republican, said “there is reason to worry that this might be a step backward from Nafta for American families — especially on fundamental issues of presumed expiration of the deal, and empowering government bureaucrats rather than markets to determine the components in cars and other goods.” Industry groups applauded the progress with Mexico but also said a final agreement must include Canada. “Coming to terms with Mexico is an encouraging sign, but threatening to pull out of the existing agreement is not,” said Matthew Shay, CEO of the National Retail Federation. “The administration must bring Canada, an essential trading partner, back to the bargaining table and deliver a trilateral deal.” The president, flanked by advisers including Mr. Lighthizer and Jared Kushner, hailed the preliminary agreements as “a big day for our country,” adding that “many people” had thought that no one could make a deal with Mexico. Mr. Peña Nieto, who has at times exchanged harsh words with Mr. Trump as the two countries have squabbled over funding for a wall along the border of the two countries, added a moment of praise on Monday. “I recognize your political will,” Mr. Peña Nieto said, “and your participation in this.” Elisabeth Malkin contributed reporting from Mexico and Catherine Porter from Toronto. Follow Ana Swanson on Twitter: @AnaSwanson. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.
08.27.2018	More than 24 hours after a shooting killed two people and wounded eleven at a video game tournament in Jacksonville, Florida, President Donald Trump on Monday evening offered his condolences to the victims of the attack, as Democrats in Congress turned up the volume on their calls for something to be done by the Congress on gun violence. “I want to extend our prayers and condolences to the victims of the tragic shooting in Jacksonville,” the President told an audience at a White House dinner for evangelical leaders. “That was a terrible thing indeed. And how it happens, nobody really knows,” the President added. The President’s less than 25 seconds of comments about the shooting attack was the first official White House reaction to the incident. Officials had said Sunday afternoon that Mr. Trump had been briefed on the shooting, but no written statement was issued by the White House, and the President did not post anything about the attack on Twitter. For Democrats, the President’s short comments about the shooting was exactly part the problem, as Democrats continue to argue that expressing ‘thoughts and prayers’ does nothing to address the underlying issue of gun violence. “Families in Jacksonville will now join countless others in America grappling with the unimaginable heartbreak that follows a mass shooting,” said Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY). “Enough is enough.” “We have the power to reduce the likelihood of these shootings,” said Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA). “Everyone must demand change from those who don’t support commonsense gun safety laws.” But as with every major shooting in recent years – ranging in size from the Jacksonville incident to the much larger 2017 attack on a concert in Las Vegas that killed 59 people – there was no evidence in the Congress that any action would take place on gun violence. “Congress can’t keep avoiding its responsibility to protect the American People,” said Rep. Alan Lowenthal (D-CA).
08.27.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE August 27, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Rep. Doggett on Recent Trade Developments Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), a senior member of the Trade Subcommittee of Ways & Means, released the below statement regarding the recent trade developments: "Once again, President Trump is announcing a victory before he has an agreement, much as he declared away the North Korean nuclear threat after a handshake in Singapore. Finally abandoning his unhinged threats to abolish NAFTA, Trump is settling for abolishing the name ‘NAFTA.’ This is typical Trump—planning to tweet and tell his rallies he did something that he did not in fact do. While avoiding a trade war against Mexico, our #1 Texas trading partner, we cannot secure a complete, improved North American agreement without Canada, our #2 trading partner. Nor can we have a true 21st Century NAFTA without stronger environmental and labor provisions, and better implementation and enforcement mechanisms, than currently exist. Canada is particularly important in the auto, aircraft and electronics manufacturing supply chains, and in timber for local homebuilders and newsprint for publications. I am reviewing the details thoroughly, talking with the United States Trade Representative, and welcoming advice from the many in Texas who are impacted by NAFTA. I am pleased that this tentative agreement apparently excludes both any Mexican renationalization of its energy sector and so-called ‘seasonality’ language that would have been harmful to HEB—and to all of us, as consumers of Mexican produce.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: replloyddoggett
08.27.2018	Whether it’s called NAFTA or “the United States-Mexico trade agreement,” some Texas business and political leaders are just happy that 387,000 Texas jobs and $97 billion in annual state exports no longer appear to be at risk after the Trump administration Monday announced a preliminary deal with Mexico, the state’s top trading partner. But they’re hoping that Canada — the No. 2 market for Texas exports — isn’t left out as President Donald Trump continues trying to rewrite the North American Free Trade Agreement, which has governed trade among the United States, Mexico and Canada for nearly 25 years. “We’re still looking to see what the details look like, but it does appear that this (preliminary agreement with Mexico) could even be a much better agreement for Texas” than the existing NAFTA terms, said Jeff Moseley, chief executive of the Texas Association of Business, the top business advocacy group in the state. “We’re very, very pleased today.” Trump called NAFTA “the worst trade deal in history” during his election campaign, and he said Monday that the name has “bad connotations” and he plans to scrap it as he attempts to strike better trade deals with U.S. neighbors. He also said he will terminate NAFTA altogether as he completes the new trade deals, although such a move would require congressional approval. Moseley, who has disagreed with some of Trump’s views on trade, said NAFTA “really was operating very well and exceeding expectations.” Still, Moseley said aspects of the new preliminary deal with Mexico could be more of a boon to Texas, citing in particular the potential for increased promotion and export of agricultural products. “That has Texas written all over it, because we are a primary producer of ag,” he said. But Moseley and others also said it’s important for the Texas economy that Canada be part of a final deal or that it reach its own bilateral agreement with the United States. Texas exports about $22.8 billion of goods to Canada annually — well below its exports to Mexico but still enough to rank Canada as the state’s second-largest export market. In addition, about 400,000 jobs are linked to trade with Canada, according to the Texas Association of Business, slightly more than the number linked to trade with Mexico. The Trump administration’s preliminary agreement with Mexico “is a positive step, and now we need to ensure the final agreement brings Canada in to the fold and has bipartisan support,” U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, said in a written statement. “A trilateral agreement is the best path forward, and any modernized agreement should do no harm to states like Texas whose economy has seen the benefits of cross-border commerce.” Gov. Greg Abbott issued a statement calling the preliminary deal “a step in the right direction” that he wants to see repeated. “Canada is our second largest trade partner, and I remain hopeful that negotiations with Canada will be equally productive,” said Abbott, who also is a Republican. But U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, blasted Trump on Monday, saying the president has abandoned “his unhinged threats to abolish NAFTA” and instead is settling for merely abolishing its name. “This is typical Trump — planning to tweet and tell his rallies he did something that he did not in fact do,” Doggett said. He said the avoidance of a trade war with Mexico is clearly good for the state, but “we cannot secure a complete, improved North American agreement without Canada, our No. 2 trading partner.”
08.27.2018	WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump on Monday announced a breakthrough in long-stalled talks with Mexico over the North American Free Trade Agreement, prompting measured relief from Texas businesses and lawmakers who've fretted over the deal's fate. The president, a persistent NAFTA critic, said the U.S. and Mexico had come to terms on how to revise several thorny parts of the 24-year-old agreement, hailing the nascent bilateral accord as "very special" for American workers, manufacturers and farmers. "It's a big day for trade," Trump said in a hastily arranged appearance in the Oval Office, where he patched in Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto by phone. "It's a big day for our country." But the president also spoke in stark terms about the future of NAFTA, a deal Trump derided as a "rip-off" despite its important role in the economy of Texas and other states. Trump pledged to remove Canada from the three-country agreement if Ottawa doesn't agree to key concessions. He expressed no hesitation in terminating the existing NAFTA. He stressed that any new deal would have a different name since NAFTA has "bad connotations." So while any progress on renegotiating NAFTA and thawing America's frosty relations with Mexico was welcome news for many Texas stakeholders, Monday's announcement was received with more than a bit of caution. In particular, key Texas voices rejected Trump's indifference over whether Canada would be included in a final deal or not. "We need to ensure the final agreement brings Canada into the fold and has bipartisan support," Republican Sen. John Cornyn said, while calling Monday's announcement a "positive step." "A trilateral agreement is the best path forward." U.S. and Mexican negotiators have huddled for days to iron out trade disagreements that have stymied talks for months. That sprint comes partly because leftist Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador will become Mexico's president in December, potentially changing the political dynamics. NAFTA talks, from the beginning, have been closely watched in Texas. Trade with Mexico and Canada supports about 1 million jobs in the Texas, according to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Mexico alone last year accounted for $189 billion in total trade with Texas — nearly 36 percent of Texas' activity, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. NAFTA's significance in Texas can perhaps be summed up by the fact that the state's oft-divided Republican and Democratic politicians tend to stand united in defending the trade deal. "NAFTA is an integral part of our economy," U.S. Rep. Henry Cueller, D-Laredo, said Monday. But the Midwest and other parts of the U.S. aren't quite as keen on NAFTA, blaming it for factory closures and other economic woes. The president seized on that despair, making the trade deal a target from the earliest days of his presidential campaign. Trump — exactly one year ago on Monday — called NAFTA the "worst trade deal ever made." Even as the president has launched a sprawling trade war that's further provoked Mexico and other trading partners, the longstanding agreement between the U.S. and its two neighbors has remained a priority for Trump's team at the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative. Monday was the kind of payoff, even if just a preliminary one, that Trump has long promised would result from his unconventional approach. "A lot of people thought we'd never get here because we all negotiate tough," Trump said. The major breakthrough with Mexico came on automobile manufacturing, an issue that stirs both labor unions and the business community. The agreement announced Monday would increase the percentage of each car that must be made in North America to qualify for duty-free standing. The deal, in a nod to concerns about U.S. jobs going abroad, would also require a large portion of vehicles to be made in high-wage factories. Whether those terms hit the right spot remains to be seen. Labor leaders like Richard Trumka, president of the AFL-CIO, said more work "needs to be done to deliver the needed, real solutions to NAFTA's deeply ingrained flaws." Toyota, which has its North American headquarters in Plano and a major factory in San Antonio, didn't tip its hand. The company is "pleased to hear that progress is being made by U.S. and Mexico negotiators to reach a consensus on modernizing NAFTA," Toyota said. "We are hopeful that any changes are fair and balanced." Two other significant elements of the U.S.-Mexico deal include a 16-year sunset for the agreement, with an option to renew for another 16 years after every six years; and a softening of contentious investor protection rules, albeit with carve-outs for certain industries. While those kind of changes are also sure to provoke pushback — and specifics remain wanting on many essential provisions — stakeholders in Texas and beyond appreciated any movement forward on NAFTA after months of gridlock. "It's what Texas farmers and ranchers have been hoping to hear," said Laramie Adams, national legislative director for the Texas Farm Bureau, which has made the case that free trade is essential to expanding markets for the state's agriculture industry. But there was also no mistaking the widespread wariness over Trump's insistence that Canada need not be a party to the new deal. Adams made clear that Canada was "critically important" to Texas. Gov. Greg Abbott said he was "hopeful that negotiations with Canada will be equally productive." The Texas Association of Business' Texas-Mexico Trade Coalition urged further work with Canadian officials. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, was the most direct, blasting Trump for "announcing a victory before he has an agreement." "While avoiding a trade war against Mexico, our No. 1 Texas trading partner, we cannot secure a complete, improved North American agreement without Canada, our No. 2 trading partner," said Doggett, who serves on the House Ways and Means Committee. Indeed, it's unclear if Trump's dismissiveness toward Canada — threatening that nation with further tariffs — puts him on the same page with Mexico or his own trade team. Peña Nieto, speaking on the phone with Trump, said repeatedly that Canada needs to be involved in the renegotiation talks. And Robert Lighthizer, Trump's trade ambassador, and other White House officials stressed that they would soon meet with Canadian officials. "This is a normal, orderly way to arrive at an agreement with three people," a senior administration official said on a conference call with reporters. White House officials plan to formally notify Congress of the proposed renegotiation by Friday, saying such a deal would "ideally" involve Canada. Then lawmakers will have the opportunity to weigh in, presenting opportunities and challenges of their own. So while the U.S.-Mexico deal is a big step, experts said, it's only part of the process. "A bilateral deal is better than no deal," said Elizabeth Trujillo, a trade expert at the Texas A&M University Law School in Fort Worth. "But we should be cautious about being overly excited about a bilateral deal." Some Tex-Mex trade watchers are taking an even more skeptical view. Phil Levy, a senior fellow at the Chicago Council on Global Affairs, noted that NAFTA is a trilateral deal backed by law, and a change in law must be approved by Congress. So he doubts the new deal can travel through the pipeline before Obrador takes office in Mexico. Then there would be the possibility of renewed negotiations, which could open rifts on energy and other topics. "This does not strike me as good news," Levy said. "I do not take this as something about which we should rejoice or have optimism."
08.27.2018	The historic trilateral trade deal signed in San Antonio that accounts for $4.2 billion in local exports could be renamed the U.S.-Mexico Trade Agreement, President Trump announced Monday from the Oval Office. The two countries have come to an agreement on several measures in the ongoing North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) negotiations, even as the provisions exclude Canada for now. The announcement is considered a significant first step toward updating the trade deal that Trump had earlier threatened to terminate. Speaking with Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto as reporters listened, Trump said, “This makes it a much more fair bill and we are very excited about it. We have worked long and hard. … It’s an extremely complex bill, and something that will be talked about for many years to come.” Monday’s deal sets the stage for a final agreement that includes Canada, but a top IBC Bank official warns there will be political obstacles to overcome. “Today’s announcement is, of course, an extremely positive development,” said Gerry Schwebel, executive vice president of IBC Bank’s Corporate International Division and a member of the U.S.-Mexico Economic Council, an initiative of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Negotiators from both countries have reportedly reached an agreement on rules for how cars and tracks are manufactured in North America, among other critical provisions that some say will move the ongoing negotiations toward conclusion. Among the provisions agreed upon is one that requires a significant portion of cars and trucks sold in the U.S. be produced in high-wage factories inside this country and Mexico. The deal states that 75 percent of auto content must be made in the U.S. and Mexico, up from 62.5 percent. It would require 40 percent to 45 percent of auto content be made by workers earning at least $16 per hour. Auto manufacturers must also use more local steel and aluminum or face steep tariffs. U.S. companies importing vehicles produced mostly in Mexico will pay a 2.5 percent tariff. Reaction from San Antonio’s leaders and business community was cautiously optimistic. “We need to see the details, but the preliminary reports look promising,” said Mayor Ron Nirenberg. “We want to see how our industry partners react to the new framework. I look forward to seeing Canada returning to the discussions to complete a trilateral deal.” A study by Steve Nivin, chief economist with the San Antonio Hispanic Chamber of Commerce‘s SABER Research Institute, shows that increased trading activity due to NAFTA has added $10.6 billion to the San Antonio economy. “San Antonio’s largest trading partners, Mexico and Canada, account for over $4.2 billion in San Antonio exports and support many of the over 63,000 export related jobs in this community,” the San Antonio Economic Development Foundation said in a prepared statement. “Our globally connected business community has benefitted greatly from NAFTA and we are hopeful that the new trade agreement with Mexico will spur momentum towards an agreement that also includes Canada.” San Antonio Chamber of Commerce President and CEO Richard Perez stated he is “beyond delighted” the U.S. has reached an agreement with Texas’ most important trading partner. “With 63,000 jobs in San Antonio directly tied to NAFTA and 135,000 jobs indirectly tied to it, NAFTA is crucial to the continued growth and success of our city, our growing industries, and our economy,” Perez said. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-San Antonio), who serves on a House Trade Subcommittee, responded to the announcement by saying he is reviewing details of the agreement and talking with trade representatives. He said that while he is pleased the agreement excludes seasonality language that would have been harmful to H-E-B and consumers of Mexican produce, the improved North American agreement cannot be finalized without Texas’ No. 2 trade partner, Canada. “Nor can we have a true 21st-century NAFTA without better implementation and enforcement mechanisms than currently exist,” Doggett stated. “Canada is particularly important in the auto, aircraft, and electronics manufacturing supply chains, and in timber for local homebuilders and newsprint for publications.” Antonio Garza, former U.S. ambassador to Mexico, called the deal a significant step in renegotiating NAFTA, a process that began over a year ago. “But I wouldn’t be popping any corks, or not yet, anyway,” he told the Rivard Report. Former U.S. Ambassador to Mexico Tony Garza speaks in a panel at NAFTA 2.0: The Future of North American Trade at St. Mary’s University in September 2017. “What’s not clear is the status of Canada and what the ‘remaining issue’ alluded to by [Mexico’s Secretary of the Economy Ildefonso] Guajardo might be. That and approval from the countries’ respective congresses, one of which will involve significant turnover in but a few short days [Mexico], and our own which will be facing midterms in November. Upshot, let’s not get ahead of ourselves.” Formal negotiations between the U.S., Mexico, and Canada began last fall, with all three countries meeting regularly to revamp and update the deal. “This preliminary deal presents us with the opportunity to modernize the trilateral agreement, which has grown trade between the United States, Canada, and Mexico from $290 billion in 1993 to over $1.1 trillion in 2016,” said U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo), in a statement. “These numbers reflect what I have said all along: NAFTA is an integral part of our economy. Businesses large and small throughout the country simply cannot function in an environment of unpredictability. They rely on the stability, as provided by this treaty, to grow and remain competitive.” Though Canada has been absent from talks in recent weeks, reports indicate the agreements between the U.S. and Mexico will bring Canada back to the negotiating table to resume the three-way talks. Canada must review the latest solutions before they can be finalized. A three-way deal needs to be reached by Aug. 31 or Sept. 1, at the latest, in order for Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto to sign it before leaving office at the end of November. “Nothing is more important for the Texas economy than solidifying our trade relations with Mexico,” said Eddie Aldrete, IBC Bank senior vice president and co-chair of pro-NAFTA group the Texas-Mexico Trade Coalition. As for overall relations with Mexico, Garza said it’s too early to tell whether the latest trade agreements will have a positive effect. “I think the citizens of both countries have accommodated the reality of the ‘new-new,’ which means nothing’s final. and today’s good feelings are simply that, today’s good feelings,” he said.
08.23.2018	
08.22.2018	AUSTIN, Texas — The coalition of “Keep Austin Affordable” is rallying support for a historic affordable housing bond set to be voted on this November. The coalition of nonprofits and businesses held a community conversation about Austin's affordability crisis. Part of their solution is a $250 million bond, the largest of its kind in Austin's history. It is only a part of a $925 million bond City Council is proposing for different developments around the city. Elected city and federal officials were there to show support for the bond. U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett said Austin can't wait for the federal government to provide affordable housing services. "We're not going to get any help from Washington," Doggett said. "We've got to do it ourselves, and that's what this bond issue is about." City officials at the event included Mayor Steve Adler, Mayor Pro Tem Kathie Tovo and City Council Members Sabino Renteria, Ann Kitchen and Greg Casar. Austin voters will get a chance to make their decision on City Council's $925 million bond request this November.
08.18.2018	San Antonio, Texas – On Saturday, August 18, Join U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-San Antonio), State Senator José Menéndez, State Representative Diego Bernal, and City Councilman Roberto Treviño for a unique opportunity to have federal, state, and city government represented at one town hall. Constituents are invited to share their concerns with their elected officials. Press are encouraged to attend. WHO: U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-San Antonio) State Sen. José Menéndez State Rep. Diego Bernal City Councilman Roberto Treviño WHEN: Saturday, August 18, 2018 at 10:00 AM WHERE: Valor Room in the San Antonio College Victory Center (Off N Main Ave. and W Dewey Pl.) 1819 N Main Ave, San Antonio Parking will be available in Lot 13 or 14. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
08.09.2018	WASHINGTON — Hundreds of companies have asked the Trump administration for a special break from its sweeping aluminum tariffs. Few have succeeded. One that managed to get an exemption is a Russian firm currently subject to Treasury Department sanctions. How Rusal America — a branch of a Russian metals giant controlled by an oligarch with close ties to President Vladimir V. Putin — managed to win an exclusion highlights the chaotic and unwieldy process surrounding President Trump’s tariffs. While Rusal and its controlling stakeholder, Oleg V. Deripaska, are restricted by American sanctions, one of the company’s dozens of exemption requests was granted by the Commerce Department in July, apparently for the simple reason that no American manufacturer objected. Department officials reversed the decision this week, after concluding that an American aluminum manufacturer had meant to object, but made a mistake in its paperwork. The Trump administration has cited national security concerns in imposing tariffs of 10 percent on aluminum and 25 percent on steel, saying a flood of cheap foreign metals could degrade the American industrial base and make the United States military and others too dependent on imported metals. The tariffs hit dozens of countries, including Canada, Mexico, China and Russia, as well as the European Union. To help American manufacturers obtain products they are unable to get from domestic suppliers, the administration established a process for companies to request exemptions. Companies must file an exclusion request for every product they want to import, and, so far, just a few have gotten the green light. Since May, companies have filed nearly 3,000 requests for aluminum exclusions. By the start of this month, the Commerce Department had granted 115 of those requests and denied 111; the rest remain under review. The department has denied nearly 650 steel requests and approved more than 1,300, out of more than 22,000 requests filed. Rusal is an unlikely company to win an exemption. Mr. Deripaska, its major shareholder, was blacklisted by the United States in April as part of an effort to punish members of Mr. Putin’s inner circle for interference in the 2016 election and other Russian aggressions. Mr. Deripaska and six other wealthy Russians were hit with sanctions that restricted their ability to travel to the United States or do business with any company in the West. As part of that effort, Rusal and other entities were also constrained from engaging in transactions with Western companies. Mr. Deripaska was once close with Paul Manafort, who served as Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, and who is currently on trial over allegations of financial fraud. During the campaign, Mr. Manafort suggested providing campaign briefings to Mr. Deripaska. There is no evidence that such briefings occurred. In an interview with Reuters last month, the Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, said he was open to easing the sanctions on Rusal, which the company has said pose a threat to its operations. “Our objective is not to put Rusal out of business,” he said. Despite the cloud of sanctions, Rusal filed more than 100 requests for exclusions that would allow it to import aluminum products from its Russian parent company to produce furniture, portable ladders and other goods. An American aluminum titan, Century Aluminum, filed objections to all but a few of those requests. Rusal’s first 19 requests were denied by Commerce Department officials. In late July, its 20th request was granted. To date, Commerce Department officials say they have never approved a request that another company objected to properly. Democrats in Congress who noticed the exclusion were prepared to protest what they called suspicious timing, given that the exemption coincided with Mr. Trump’s summit meeting with Mr. Putin in Finland. Commerce Department officials dismissed that criticism last week, saying they had coordinated with the Treasury Department unit that oversees sanctions in considering the Rusal application. The officials said that unit, the Office of Foreign Assets Control, was ultimately the decider on whether sanctions should prevent approval of an exclusion. The Commerce Department said that the approval review lasted 12 weeks, and that “there were no objections posted by American companies for the approved request” during the monthlong comment period. “The Commerce decision on this exclusion request simply acknowledges that this product is not available from U.S. manufacturers,” a department spokesman said. This week, the department reversed course on the exclusion, after The New York Times inquired about whether Century Aluminum had, in fact, filed an objection, given its pattern of objecting to nearly every other Rusal application. Department officials determined that Century had meant to file an objection to Rusal’s request, but had erred in submitting the paperwork. The department effectively fixed Century’s error, then ruled that the objection was valid — and that Rusal’s exclusion was void. In light of Century’s “clear intent to file the required objection form, not completed due to its clerical error,” the department said in a statement, officials have now “considered the objection on its merits and determined it supports a denial.” Rusal officials declined to comment on the issue this week. “Thank you for your interest in our company,” a spokesman, Andrey Vetvinskiy, wrote in an email. “Unfortunately, we will not be able to arrange an interview with our top management this month.” The Commerce Department’s reversal has raised new questions from Democrats, including Representative Lloyd Doggett of Texas and Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who say the department should have never considered granting an exclusion to a company under sanctions in the first place. “The Trump administration granted this tariff exclusion, certifying no national security concerns, to a sanctioned subsidiary owned by a sanctioned Russian aluminum company, a mere three days after Trump’s surrender in Helsinki to President Putin,” Mr. Doggett, who sits on the Ways and Means subcommittee for trade, said on Thursday. “This is not about the failure of one of those American companies to object, but about continuing, very objectionable favoritism toward Putin.” Ms. Warren sent the Commerce Department a 10-page letter earlier this week, laying out concerns with the Rusal approval, which her staff had found in a database of exclusions. “The Trump administration undermined our national security by handing out a tariff exemption for millions of dollars of aluminum imports to a sanctioned Russian company — only to reverse this decision after my investigation revealed this giveaway,” she said Thursday. “They owe the American people an explanation for how this fiasco happened.” Criticism of the exclusions process has crossed party lines. On Thursday, Senator Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, the chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, sent the commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross, a letter detailing frustrations that companies have experienced in applying for exclusions, and demanding answers for how exclusions are determined. “Although you promised the process would be ‘fair and transparent,’” Mr. Johnson wrote, “a number of Wisconsin business leaders have expressed concerns to me about the uncertainty and arbitrary nature of the exclusions process.”
08.08.2018	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) offered the below statement on the fire early this morning at his San Antonio district office: “My great thanks to our police and firefighters, who responded quickly and professionally to contain the damage and assure no loss of life, and to my District Director MaryEllen Veliz, who was promptly on the scene. Their efforts assure that we will be fully accessible today to anyone with a federal concern. While this fire does appear to be arson, investigators do not currently believe that it represented any targeted political attack.” ###
08.08.2018	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) submitted a request to ICE requesting parole for a Dreamer, Sergio Salazar Gonzalez, from San Antonio that ICE detained near a protest: "I urged ICE to grant parole to Sergio, a Dreamer, with no criminal history, who engaged in nonviolent protest against ICE. While differing with both some of his political views and methods, I fully support his right to dissent without being targeted by the Trump Administration." ###
08.08.2018	A bill from Representative Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) has the potential to start a new national conversation about the federal government’s relationship to intellectual property, monopoly power, and human needs. The bill, HR 6505, would allow Medicare to negotiate with drug companies to secure reasonable prices for medications—and, if pharmaceutical companies refuse, the bill permits the government to suspend exclusivity for drug patents and authorize other companies to offer generic competition. The measure has already picked up more than 80 co-sponsors, including Representatives Keith Ellison, Raul Grijalva, John Garamendi, and Jan Schakowsky, and is backed by a broad coalition of progressive organizations. Representatives Ro Khanna (D-CA), Peter Welch (D-VT), and Elijah Cummings (D-MD) helped craft the bill, according to Doggett staffers. Drug prices in the United States are nearly twice what they are in the rest of the world; the 20 top-selling drugs cost three times more in the United States than they do in Great Britain. This is in large part because of the exclusive patents given to drug companies for medicines often developed through publicly funded research. In other words, drug companies are shielded from competition, and so are able to charge US citizens high prices for the intellectual property their tax dollars helped to create. (A Project HOPE study found that government funding played an indirect role—”for example, by funding basic underlying research”—for almost half of the drugs approved between 1988 and 2005.) Lobbying efforts have so far dissuaded elected officials from regulating drug prices, or even from allowing Medicare—which pays for nearly a third of all prescription drugs in the United States—to negotiate with pharmaceutical companies. Donald Trump has repeatedly promised to cut “ripoff drug prices.” Yet so far his administration has enacted no major policy to do so. In contrast, Doggett’s bill could mark a significant advance in the fight to bring down drug prices. It requires the secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate Medicare drug prices with pharmaceutical corporations. If a pricing agreement is not reached, the bill instructs the secretary to override the license holder’s exclusivity and give other companies the right to manufacture and sell the same drug, after paying royalties to the patent holder. Public Citizen estimates the bill would save $16 billion per year. It would be the first measure that permits the government to override drug-company patents since 1980’s Bayh-Dole Amendment, a law that applies only to pharmaceuticals developed with government funding. Bayh-Dole’s so-called “march-in” authority gives the government the right to override exclusive patents and bring prices down when manufacturers fail to meet public “health and safety needs.” Despite high drug prices, no presidential administration has exercised this authority. Doggett told The Nation that he sought action to bring down drug prices under Bayh-Dole from the Obama administration but his request was denied. A letter sent early in the Trump administration from 50 members of Congress asking the president to use what Doggett calls “taxpayer rights” also failed to provoke action. “If it’s taxpayer-funded research, then the taxpayer ought to get a fair deal on the purchase of the product,” Doggett said. “If it’s taxpayer-funded research, then the taxpayer ought to get a fair deal on the purchase of the product”—Texas Representative Lloyd Doggett The bill’s intent is to reconsider the role of intellectual property in health care, by weighing the privilege of an exclusive, government-granted patent against other factors in the public interest. “We’re saying that the government granted you a monopoly. If you insist on monopoly prices, [if] there’s no restraint and this is denying access, you’re abusing that monopoly,” Doggett said. “The government can then come in and license competitors to use your intellectual property, and they have to pay you fair value for your property.” “We’re not taking it,” Doggett added. “We set out standards in the bill for how that would be paid. And we provide an incentive to reach reasonable negotiations so you never get to that point.” If negotiations fail, the bill sets a price for the drug based on what’s paid in other developed countries. Those prices are almost always significantly lower than those paid in the United States. This concept employs what is known as “compulsory licensing,” where government makes an otherwise patent-protected invention available to others under certain conditions. Doggett, however, prefers the term “competitive pricing.” HR 6505 would weaken the anti-competitive nature of drug monopolies and force manufacturers to compete for market share. The bill uses the principle of “reasonable compensation” to set royalties that other manufacturers would pay to the patent holder. Rates would be based on the level of government funding in the research that led to the drug, as well as the manufacturer’s level of investment in its development. The effect of pricing on public health would also be considered. “This bill recognizes that the vast majority of drug innovation takes place in universities and research centers,” Representative Khanna told The Nation. But once a new drug has been discovered, Khanna continued, “a bunch of Penn Wharton Business School grads try to figure out how to sell it and make money, and it’s the salesmanship that’s rewarded. Salesmanship should be rewarded–but it shouldn’t capture an absurd price.” Khanna added, “The goal is to eliminate the rent capture that special interests are currently given. Doggett’s bill is pro-competition. It says, ‘Let’s not have a state-sanctioned monopoly like China has.’” Big Pharma usually defends the patent system as a necessary incentive for innovation. But as Doggett and Khanna noted, record profits have not led to higher R&D budgets. “After the billions of dollars of unjustified windfall that the drug companies got out of the Trump tax bill,” Doggett told The Nation, “we haven’t seen any significant increase in research. We’ve seen their executives and stockholders profit nicely, but prices haven’t gone down and research hasn’t gone up.” James Love, director of Knowledge Ecology International (KEI) and a leading voice in government patent innovation, said in a blog postthat the Doggett bill represents a political “turning point,” noting that it reflects “broad support for using robust compulsory licensing authority to protect access if negotiations on prices break down.” The number and breadth of the bill’s co-signers–including mainstream Democrats like Tim Ryan and Debbie Wasserman-Schultz–suggests that the idea is gaining wider political acceptance. Doggett is realistic about the hurdles the bill would face, however, even if Democrats regain the House in November. One is the Senate’s 60-vote “roadblock” to overcoming a filibuster, as well as the influence of drug manufacturers. “One cannot underestimate the duplicity, or the lobbying and campaign-finance power, of the pharmaceutical lobby,” Doggett said.” They concentrate it on those committees that have the biggest say here, and they don’t discriminate against Democrats. They give generously to both sides.” Doggett called upon “whoever has [House] leadership in January” for immediate hearings. “We want a full and open process,” he said, “where Pharma can come forward and discuss this–and so can the victims of Pharma.” He added that even under a Democratic majority, public demand will be crucial to action. Medicare, which covers 16 percent of the population, pays for roughly 30 percent of all drug purchases in the United States, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation. What about everyone else? Khanna says he is developing a bill that builds on Doggett’s approach and applies it to all US insurance coverage. Doggett’s bill reframes, for the better, the debate between patent rights and the impact of monopoly abuse on the public interest. (That debate need not be confined to pharmaceuticals. KEI lists a number of statutes that involve the “non-voluntary use of patented inventions,” particularly in the energy field.) Each patent granted to a private company is, in effect, a stand-alone monopoly granted by the US government. The people who pay the price for those monopolies, with their money and their bodies, deserve a vigorous debate about their future.
08.02.2018	Instructions for making guns on a 3D printer are no longer available on an Austin company’s website, but the plans have been copied and republished on other parts of the internet, raising questions about the effectiveness of a federal judge’s order that blocked access to the files. Defense Distributed, founded by Cody Wilson of Austin, shut down access to the gun blueprints shortly after U.S. District Judge Robert Lasnik of Seattle issued a temporary restraining order Tuesday afternoon, company lawyer Josh Blackman said Thursday. However, the files had been available since July 27 and were downloaded thousands of times and reposted in “countless other places — I don’t even know where,” Blackman said. “I argued to the judge on Tuesday that there’s no irreparable harm because the files are out there and you can’t put the genie back in the bottle. The judge wasn’t persuaded by that argument,” Blackman told the American-Statesman. The Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence criticized what it called extremist groups for reposting the do-it-yourself plans, citing the danger of promoting difficult-to-detect plastic firearms that would lack a serial number and therefore be untraceable. “It means that we’re all at greater risk,” said Avery Gardiner, co-president of the Brady Campaign. “What they are doing is dangerous. It is reckless. It is obviously an attempt to get around the judge’s temporary restraining order, and it undermines the gun laws of the United States and every country of the world.” Lasnik issued the restraining order at the request of Washington state Attorney General Bob Ferguson and Democratic officials from seven other states and the District of Columbia who argued that releasing the 3D-printer gun plans would aid terrorists and criminals, providing a serious threat to national security and public safety. The judge’s order temporarily blocked the federal government from enforcing an agreement between Defense Distributed and the U.S. State Department — finalized on July 27 — that removed government objections to the distribution of the gun blueprints. An Aug. 10 hearing in Seattle will determine whether the restraining order should be converted into a longer-term preliminary injunction. “I am thankful and relieved Judge Lasnik put a nationwide stop to the Trump administration’s dangerous decision to allow downloadable, 3D-printed ghost guns to be distributed online,” Ferguson said. “I hope the president does the right thing and directs his administration to change course.” White House review On Tuesday, President Donald Trump tweeted that he was looking into the issue of making “3D plastic guns” available to the public, adding that it “doesn’t seem to make much sense!” A day later, White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said Trump was happy that “this effort was delayed to give more time to review the issue,” adding that the deal with Defense Distributed was made without the president’s approval. Blackman said he and Wilson are watching to see if Trump cancels the State Department agreement, which settled a 5-year-old lawsuit by Defense Distributed, Wilson and the Second Amendment Foundation by providing two concessions: • A license allowing for the “unlimited distribution” of 3D-printer gun blueprints by Wilson and Defense Distributed. • An acknowledgement that “any United States person” can access, use and reproduce the plans for 3D-printed guns. Wilson had announced that his website would make the blueprints available to the public on the first day of August, only to change his mind once he had the State Department settlement in hand on July 27 and the first lawsuits to block publication were filed, Blackman said. “Cody planned to beef up marketing for a few days to get things ready, but he jumped the gun once all this litigation started happening. We posted quickly, and the files were in the public domain for a good five days — perfectly legal,” Blackman said. “You had a safe harbor for five days. We beat the man for five days, we were able to receive all these instructions for five days, but on the fifth day we lost, and that safe harbor is now gone,” he said. Other than Wilson and Defense Distributed, the judge’s restraining order does not directly stop anybody from posting the 3D-printer gun plans online. However, by removing that safe harbor, “people who post this risk a violation of federal law,” Blackman said. “Now, who knows? The government has never prosecuted anyone for this.” Doggett legislation With the 3D-printer gun instructions proliferating on the internet, efforts must shift to containing the damage, said U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, who co-sponsored the Untraceable Firearms Act that was filed Tuesday. The bill would require 3D-printed guns to include a serial number for easier tracking and metal components to make them easier to spot using scanners or metal detectors. “Our bill is a first draft, which will no doubt evolve during the legislative process, and which we are urging to get underway immediately. Meanwhile, we are hopeful that the federal court order from Seattle will maintain some temporary, partial relief,” Doggett said. Gardiner with the Brady Campaign said she was skeptical about the ability to overcome Republican opposition to legislation seen as restricting gun rights. “I’m not optimistic that sensible proposals to stop the 3D printing of guns are going to go anywhere fast with this Congress,” she said. Instead, the Brady Campaign called on Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to issue cease-and-desist letters to websites that republished the 3D-printer gun plans — similar to action the department took against Wilson and Defense Distributed in 2013, when it blocked publication of the blueprints as a violation of federal law governing the export of military weapons.
07.31.2018	The San Antonio Chamber of Commerce hosted the third of its 2018 Congressional Leadership series luncheons Tuesday, this time featuring U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett. The Chamber hosted almost 200 local civic and business leaders for the event at the Marriott Plaza San Antonio on South Alamo Street, near the site where a landmark trade deal, the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), was signed in 1992. Chamber Board Chairman Shaun Kennedy, San Antonio regional chairman for Texas Capital Bank, introduced Doggett as “a true leader and champion for Texas business.” The outspoken Democrat – whose 35th Congressional District includes portions of Guadalupe, Travis, Hays, Caldwell, Comal, and Bexar counties – addressed issues ranging from infrastructure and health care to immigration policy and trade wars. “If you look back over the history of this community, almost from the time of the first founders of the city, trade has been so critical,” Doggett said, discussing the status of current trade negotiations and NAFTA 2.0. “Trade has been very important for San Antonio and remains very important.” Fortunately, he said, the Trump administration dropped its threat to tax every avocado and auto part that came across the border from Mexico and turned toward an issue Doggett says he supports. “There are some very unfair practices by the Chinese,” he said. “There are some real problems there that the president was correct in addressing. But how he addressed it is a big issue.” Doggett wants to see a world that gains, not loses, from trade. “I want it to be on a fair basis. There have been things in our trade agreements that have not been fair,” he said. “But to suddenly terminate NAFTA in Texas, in auto parts, for example, and auto manufacturing, it would be practically impossible to do that because we have things going back and forth between [borders].” For that reason, he’s not in favor of a bilateral agreement with Mexico or Canada, he said, and thinks negotiators will be successful in making needed updates to NAFTA. “I think that despite my very strong feelings about Trump, he does have some good people within the office of the trade representatives that can get us where we need to be.” Doggett was not as supportive of the administration’s policies on infrastructure, saying partisan politics ahead of the midterm elections may get in the way of reaching an agreement on how to pay for infrastructure improvements. “I believe that next year, after a change in Congress, President Trump will be looking for any victory he can find, and this might be an area we can find some middle ground on,” he said. “I hope so because the needs aren’t Republican or Democratic. They are transportation needs that are affecting our economy. We see our competitors in China and elsewhere getting really state of the art, multimodal transportation systems, and we need to be able to compete by having 21st-century infrastructure.” Doggett also answered questions about proposed changes to the Affordable Care Act. Though the administration last week restored what is called risk adjustment payments to try to provide stability in the market, it eliminated some mandates and other protections. It is important to protect the employer-based system and have everyone involved, he said, not just sick people. Nevertheless, “we will see some premium increases this fall,” he said. But the biggest risk involves the issue of pre-existing conditions, which he said could affect “almost 50 percent” of Texans. “We’ll be back to a day when the fine print of your insurance policy … will take away what the large print provides … annual limitations, lifetime limitations, exclusions for conditions, and insurance will not provide protections for what you need when you need it most.” A senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, Doggett is the ranking member on the Tax Policy Subcommittee and also serves on the subcommittees on Trade and Human Resources as well as the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee. Doggett said that during his only face-to-face encounter with Trump, in a meeting about the tax bill, he told the president how much he appreciated one of his tweets referencing the DACA program (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) that seemingly supported immigrants brought the United States as children. “Then this incredible tragedy at the border, with the separation of little toddlers from their families, some of whom I believe will never be reunited with their parents, despite what the administration is saying,” Doggett said. “Ultimately held as hostages over DACA … in order to get this silly wall built.” Doggett said he was pleased to see Southwest Airlines and several chambers of commerce formally oppose – for the sake of the state’s economic well-being – the State of Texas’ lawsuit against the federal government asking to end DACA. “If you want to change the law on immigration, you have to change the lawmakers,” he said. “There are some people who will never change their mind about this issue.” Doggett won the 35th Congressional seat in 2012. As the incumbent, he faces Republican candidate David Smalling and Libertarian candidate Clark Patterson in the midterm elections this fall.
07.31.2018	An Austin company’s plans to release downloadable blueprints for 3-D printed guns on Wednesday has sparked lawsuits, countersuits and threats of legal action as part of a heated national debate over safety, constitutional rights and the wisdom of promoting untraceable, difficult to detect firearms. President Donald Trump joined the conversation Tuesday morning, tweeting that he was looking into the issue of do-it-yourself plastic guns that can be made on 3-D printers. “Already spoke to NRA, doesn’t seem to make much sense!” Trump wrote. Manley: Yes, APD is concerned about 3-D printed guns Senate Democratic Leader Charles Schumer quickly responded, telling Trump that officials within his administration’s State Department had approved the release of the blueprints, adding: “What kind of incompetence and dangerous governing is this?” The debate over printed guns, sometimes called ghost guns because they would be printed without serial numbers or the need for background checks, began in 2013 when Cody Wilson of Austin announced that he had created the first working gun built with a 3-D printer — a single-shot pistol with a short barrel he called the Liberator. Wilson posted the plans online, but the State Department intervened, warning that the publication violated federal law, particularly the export provisions of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations because the information could be downloaded worldwide. Wilson took down the plans and sued the State Department, telling the American-Statesman at the time that he believed the government was improperly infringing on his free-speech right to disseminate information about something that is legal for most Americans to possess: guns. That lawsuit ended in late June when the State Department reversed course, entering a settlement allowing Wilson and Defense Distributed — the company he founded in his Hyde Park apartment in 2012 — to distribute plans for the Liberator and other weapons at the end of July. “The age of the downloadable gun formally begins,” Defense Distributed’s website proclaimed. Law enforcement officials blanched, calling ghost guns a boon to terrorists and criminals. Democrats in Congress vowed to introduce legislation to outlaw what some called the ultimate gun loophole and called on Trump to block the State Department’s approval. “Permitting unlimited access to undetectable guns offers a potential recipe for disaster,” said U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin. “These weapons could be carried into an airplane, a courthouse, a school or anywhere else without detection by screening devices.” “The ball is in the president’s court,” said U.S. Sen. Ed Markey, D-Mass. “Otherwise, Donald Trump will be responsible for every plastic gun on the streets of our country if he does not act.” Gun-rights advocates argued that fears were overblown because printed guns tend to break down quickly when fired, typically hold no more than one or two bullets, require expensive 3-D printers to make and often need metal parts that can be detected. In a July 23 segment on NRA-TV, spokeswoman Dana Loesch said printable guns represented freedom and innovation and voiced doubts that a ban on the information would be enforceable. Plans for the Liberator, for example, were downloaded more than 100,000 times, and posted on other sites, before Defense Distributed removed the plans from its website in 2013. Lawsuits to stop Defense Distributed followed in several courts: • On Friday, a federal judge in Austin rejected an emergency motion sought by the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, Everytown for Gun Safety and the Giffords Law Center to block publication of the plans. Additional action on that lawsuit is not likely, a spokesman for the groups said Tuesday. • Washington state’s attorney general, joined by seven other states and the District of Columbia, filed suit Monday in a Seattle federal court, seeking a nationwide temporary injunction barring the distribution of printable gun plans, calling them a threat to national security and public safety. The lawsuit by Democratic leaders in the states also targeted the Trump administration in hopes of blocking the State Department settlement. • Officials in Pennsylvania and New Jersey, which are part of the Washington state lawsuit, also sued Defense Distributed in state courts. During an emergency hearing in Pennsylvania, the Austin company agreed to temporarily block Pennsylvania internet users from downloading the plans. Separately, Defense Distributed also agreed to block internet users in New Jersey and Los Angeles, where City Attorney Michael Feuer threatened legal action, saying distribution of the printable gun blueprints appeared to violate California law. On Sunday, however, the Austin company struck back, suing Feuer and New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal, saying they “have threatened and intend to drag Defense Distributed before all manner of far-flung criminal and civil tribunals in an effort to silence the organization.” Filed in Austin federal court, the lawsuit was joined by the Second Amendment Foundation and seeks a ruling declaring that legal action by New Jersey and Los Angeles would violate constitutional protections for fee speech and the right to bear arms. In other action, a Monday letter from 21 state attorneys general urged Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Attorney General Jeff Sessions to end the settlement with Defense Distributed, calling it deeply dangerous and a threat to public safety.
07.31.2018	LOCKHART, Texas -- It's been two years since a deadly hot air balloon crash in Lockhart. Sixteen people were killed when the balloon flew into power lines. Federal investigators believe the pilot was probably impaired, and recommended stricter regulations on balloons. Those changes were part of an amendment to the FAA reauthorization bill, which passed the House in April. The section of the bill, titled the "Commercial Balloon Pilot Safety Act of 2018, states:Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall revise section 61.3(c) of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations (relating to second-class medical certificates), to apply to an operator of an air balloon to the same extent such regulations apply to a pilot flight crewmember of other aircraft. Rep. Lloyd Doggett's hot air balloon pilot safety amendment was approved as a part of the act. The bill is co-sponsored by Lamar Smith, the Representative for Texas’ 21st congressional district. The Senate has not voted on the bill yet.
07.30.2018	Our Declaration of Independence proclaims that all of us have been “endowed with certain unalienable Rights” that include “Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness.” Those rights depend on being alive and healthy. That is why more and more of us are declaring that guaranteed health care is a right, not a privilege. But guaranteed health care is an illusion if we cannot afford the medications and treatments that we need. As Americans, we pay the highest drug prices in the world. Indeed, we pay twice. Our tax dollars fund the research that results in those blockbuster medications from which Big Pharma profits. Every single one. That is no exaggeration. A recent study, published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, has found that the development of every single one of the 210 new drugs approved by the federal government from 2010 through 2016 involved research funded by the National Institutes of Health. Our tax dollars fund NIH’s annual research budget, which amounts to over $37 billion in 2018. Yet this tax-supported research does not provide us with affordable drugs. A year ago, the government approved two new cancer-fighting drugs. Both drugs are the result of research conducted and supported by NIH. In fact, one of the drugs is produced using technology licensed from NIH. So, how much must we pay for these treatments resulting from research and technology funded by the American people? The first, known as Kymriah, costs a mere $475,000 for a one-time treatment. The other, Yescarta, goes for the unbelievable price of $373,000! Not only is our government not reining in the prices of prescription drugs, they are doing exactly the opposite. Congressional Republicans have handcuffed Medicare by not letting the program negotiate reasonable drug prices on behalf of its current and future beneficiaries: Our grandparents, our parents, and ourselves. Fortunately, the Democratic Party is determined to do something about it. A number of bills have been introduced to unshackle Medicare. Last week, Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), together with 80 of his fellow Democrats, introduced The Medicare Negotiation and Competitive Licensing Act. In addition to authorizing Medicare to negotiate, it adds teeth, if the drug companies refuse to negotiate in good faith. Big Pharma uses scare tactics to maintain the highest profits of any industry. Putting profits over people, it has threatened that if it is forced to negotiate, it will simply refuse to sell its drugs to people on Medicare. Calling Pharma’s bluff, the Doggett bill stipulates that if Pharma refused to agree to a reasonable price on a given medication, the secretary of Health and Human Services would issue a competitive license to another company, which would be more than eager to produce it as a generic. Allowing Medicare to negotiate and issuing competitive licenses is as American as apple pie. What can be more American than promoting competition, which is exactly what The Medicare Negotiation and Competitive Licensing Act would do. It is time to improve Medicare and extend it from the grave down to the cradle. An important first step is to enact the Doggett bill. After all, life-saving and life-improving medications won’t work if people can’t afford them. It is unconscionable that anyone in the wealthiest country in the world has to choose between buying food and paying for prescription drugs. That is wrong. Donald Trump has talked a good game about bringing down drug prices, but he appears to be in the pocket of Big Pharma. In contrast, if Democrats win in November, they are prepared to pass legislation to lower our unconscionably high drug prices. That will force Donald Trump to either support it or prove beyond a doubt that he is more concerned about the CEOs and shareholders of the pharmaceutical industry than even his base of voters. When you think about the November election, I urge you to vote for candidates who support allowing Medicare to negotiate, issuing competitive licenses and taking other measures that will lower drug prices. Your life may depend on who is elected. Nancy Altman is president of Social Security Works.
07.30.2018	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) reacted to efforts by The Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence and other gun safety groups to stop a Trump Administration-approved agreement for the publication next week of blueprints for undetectable 3D-printed guns: “Permitting unlimited access to undetectable guns offers a potential recipe for disaster. The stated intent of the founder of Austin-based Defense Distributed is to destroy the gun safety movement being led by our students and their allies. While the reliability and cost of printing current designs may be questionable, undetectable, 3D-printed plastic guns could destroy many lives. These weapons could be carried into an airplane, a courthouse, a school or anywhere else without detection by screening devices. This serious danger to our safety results from recent Trump Administration action that will permit instructions for making these plastic guns available next Wednesday, August 1. In suddenly reversing its interpretation of the International Trade in Arms Regulations (ITAR), the Trump State Department apparently relied upon a recent Trump directive: ‘Control of Firearms, Guns, Ammunition and Related Articles the President Determines No Longer Warrant Control Under the United States Munitions List (USML).’ The Trump Administration agreement with the company promoting these plastic guns apparently occurred with no public hearing and no prior notice to gun safety groups. I applaud the efforts of gun safety groups to protect our families.”
07.30.2018	President Trump chaired a meeting Friday of his most senior national security advisers to discuss the administration’s effort to safeguard November’s elections from Russian interference, the first such meeting he’s led on the matter, but issued no new directives to counter or deter the threat. The meeting, which lasted less than an hour, covered all the activities by federal agencies to help state and local election officials, and to investigate and hold accountable Russian hackers seeking to undermine American democracy. This smacks of a just-for-show meeting, the end result of his staff reading polls and deciding that he needed to show he was concerned about the integrity of our elections. Unfortunately, a transparently formulaic meeting with no new funding, no new proposals and no presidential leadership tells us that Trump doesn’t care about election security. His hint via tweet that Russia was going to hack the midterm elections specifically to benefit Democrats was entirely baseless, but it set off alarm bells that Trump might try to discredit election results if Democrats do very well (which is quite likely). Democrats have railed at the president for leaving American democracy unprotected. Appearing on CBS News’s “Face the Nation” on Sunday, Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.) had this exchange: MARGARET BRENNAN: I do want to ask you though about a colleague … of yours in the Senate, Senator Claire McCaskill. She faces a tossup election out in Missouri and she confirmed personally this week that Russian hackers unsuccessfully tried to access her Senate computer system. Microsoft I guess was out there saying she is one of at least three individuals who — who were targeted. Who else is on that list? SHAHEEN: I don’t know who else is on the list but I do know that we’ve had an experience in our office with people getting phishing emails with social media- accounts. There has been one situation that we have turned over to authorities to look into. And we’re hearing that this is widespread at — with political parties across the country, as well as with members of the Senate. So this is a very big issue and it’s something that we need to address in a bipartisan way. It affects both Republicans and Democrats. It’s about the security of our political process and our government functions and we need to work together to address it. Meanwhile, Sen. James Lankford (R-Okla.) on ABC News’s “This Week” gingerly rebuffed the president. “The misinformation’s one side of it, then hacking into computers as they did for the [Democratic National Committee], hacking into state election systems. That’s a separate group within the Russian government, but both of them are actively still at work. So for Americans, they’ve got to be able to pay attention to what information’s coming in front of them.” Asked whether Trump was right that the Russians are only helping Democrats, Lankford conceded, “No, the — the Russians are trying to interfere with everyone’s election, and that’s the part that we lose track of. To them, sowing chaos and sowing uncertainty within our democracy is their key goal.” Republicans aren’t concerned enough about protecting our democracy to call out the president or demand funding. Democrats will try to put their feet to the fire by moving on the Secure Elections Act (“a bipartisan bill designed to improve coordination among federal and state agencies when it comes to sharing information about potential threats to election systems”). Less than two weeks ago, House Republicans refused to authorize more funding for election security, leading to sharp responses from Democrats: Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas, said Republicans’ refusal to spend more money on election security “represents nothing less than unilateral disarmament” against Russia, citing the U.S. intelligence community’s finding that Russia intervened in the 2016 election and charges brought by the Justice Department against Russian officials for hacking Democratic groups. Rep. Steny Hoyer of Maryland, the No. 2 Democrat, depicted the vote on election security grants as a defense of U.S. democracy, citing a comment by National Intelligence Director Dan Coats that warning lights about cyber threats to the U.S. are “blinking red” in a manner similar to those before the 9/11 attacks. “The flashing red light calls us to action!” Hoyer thundered. “Surely we can rise above pandering to party and [Russian President Vladimir] Putin to act on behalf of our freedom and our security.” Democrats broke out in chants of “USA! USA!” as Hoyer spoke. Why is Trump so uninterested in — and Republicans so passive about — the threat to election security? We have a couple of theories. One theory is that Trump simply hates the topic of Russian interference (so his Republican allies hate it, too). Time and again, he has sided with Putin in denying that interference occurred, only to be forced to retreat (usually via a spokesperson). Rightly or not, Trump thinks that the involvement of Russia in the 2016 election on his behalf, if widely accepted, would undercut his victory in 2016 and delegitimize his presidency. If he takes the problem seriously now, the public will be more and more convinced of Russia’s role. This is the “Trump cannot bring himself to believe” theory. The other possibility is that Trump actively wants the help from the Kremlin. He likes the bot farms, the disinformation in social media (which he and his aides have been known to pick up and echo) and, most of all, WikiLeaks. Why would he try to shut any of that down, or expose his BFF Putin’s election interference operation? (Goodness knows what he and Putin actually discussed in Helsinki on this topic.) He might not be publicly calling for Russia to find and release Hillary Clinton’s emails, as he did the day Russian hacking of the DNC began (according to the indictment of Russian hackers in the special counsel’s investigation), but in essence, he has agreed to remain asleep at the wheel. We do not at this point know which is correct, but if Trump knows that the Russian interference is continuing and is deliberately foot-dragging, he’s simply continuing a pattern of, yes, collusion — or a conspiracy, if you will — that involves taking something of value from a foreign national. In plain terms, this would be a grotesque betrayal of American democracy, a vivid example of Russia First policy. He and aides should consider that if one or both houses of Congress flip to the Democrats, they will no doubt conduct an exhaustive inquiry as to what Trump did or did not do to protect our elections. Evidence of deliberate neglect would be stunning and ample grounds for impeachment.
07.29.2018	Democrats pushing to lower drug prices for seniors have found an unusual proponent in the fight: Freedom Caucus Chairman Mark Meadows. The North Carolina Republican, a conservative firebrand and close ally of President Trump, has built a political career around efforts to shrink government and promote free markets. But he also supports the notion of empowering Medicare to negotiate pharmaceutical prices on behalf of seniors — an idea Republican leaders have devoutly rejected since they enacted the Part D drug benefit in 2003. Democrats have fought to grant Medicare negotiating powers for exactly as long, and some of the chief proponents of that design — most notably Reps. Elijah Cummings (D-Md.) and Peter Welch (D-Vt.) — have been in direct talks with Meadows about bringing him on to their bill. The measure currently has one Republican backer: Rep. Francis Rooney (R-Fla.). Meadows, for his part, said he "absolutely" supports the concept, but has been sidetracked by administration efforts to rein in skyrocketing drug costs unilaterally. "We haven’t spent as much time on that as trying to do some of the things more administratively than legislatively," Meadows said. "My preference is legislatively." "Elijah and I continue to have what I’d say [are] sidebar conversations about it," he added. Cummings said Democrats have initially focused on laying out their preferred reforms, with eyes on getting input — and rallying support — from Republicans further down the line. Meadows, he said, is a key part of that recruitment effort. “We wanted to get the Democratic piece first, and then we’ll try to pull in others,” Cummings said. “Hopefully he’ll be on the bill.” “I’m gonna ask him, don’t worry,” he added. “Meadows and I have a great relationship. I’m not saying that just to say it — we do.” The proposal has no chance of advancing in a GOP-controlled House, especially so close to the midterm elections. But Democrats — who have made drug costs a featured piece of their midterm campaign message — want to lay the groundwork for passing a Medicare negotiation bill next year if they win back the Speaker’s gavel. Democrats made a similar promise when they won the House in 2006, and quickly passed a bill through the lower chamber. But it was blocked in the Senate — the only item on their “six for ’06” wish list that wasn’t signed into law. They’re hoping Meadows's endorsement will lend momentum to their proposal, which had the enthusiastic support of Trump on the 2016 campaign trail before falling out of the president’s favor more recently. “We’re much better off having the Republicans’ help,” said Welch, lead sponsor of the Medicare negotiation bill. He was in discussions with Meadows last year about joining forces on legislation, but the talks between the two fizzled out. “I’d love to have his help,” Welch said, adding that it’s been a while since the two of them spoke. “But you’re reminding me, so I’m gonna say, ‘Mark, time to go. Time to team up.’ ” Meadows, hardly known for bipartisanship, has built a reputation for rallying the Freedom Caucus behind conservative policy demands, and then using that bloc of roughly 30 votes to aggravate efforts by GOP leaders to move bills through the House. But he’s joined forces with Democrats to target the pharmaceutical industry over skyrocketing drug prices, endorsing a bill that would ensure generic manufacturers have access to samples of name-brand drugs for research purposes. He’s also been open to Medicare negotiation stretching back to at least May 2017, when he and Cummings were tentatively scheduled to discuss the matter with Trump at the White House. That meeting was scrapped after House Republicans passed their bill to repeal ObamaCare the very same day, as scores of GOP lawmakers were bussed over to the White House to celebrate their victory with the president in the Rose Garden. Fourteen months later, Meadows said he’s ready to take another look at the Democrats’ proposals. “We’ve been talking about drug pricing; on that particularly bill I don’t know. I’ll take a look at it and see if I can sign on,” he said. The talks, he added, “haven’t stopped.” “Mr. Cummings and I continue to talk, but not with any great specificity,” Meadows said. In enacting the Medicare drug benefit in 2003, Republicans faced pressure from pharmaceutical companies and ended up including a provision barring the Department of Health and Human Services from negotiating prices directly with drug companies. Critics of that prohibition contend it prevents Medicare from tapping its bulk-buying power to lower drug costs for seniors — a ban that would be eliminated under Welch’s bill. A similar proposal, introduced Wednesday by Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), would also empower the federal government to negotiate drug prices, while granting Medicare additional authority to pursue generic competitors if negotiations fall through. On the campaign trail, Trump was a fierce critic of the pharmaceutical industry, saying the companies were “getting away with murder” and vowing to “negotiate like crazy” to lower Medicare drug costs. “We’ll save more than $300 billion a year if we properly negotiate,” he said in early 2016. “We don’t do that, we don’t negotiate.” In May, however, his administration released its plan to lower drug costs that excluded new negotiation powers. Democrats have taken every opportunity to point out the contradiction, and their “For the people” campaign slogan for the midterms dedicates one of just three main talking points to lowering prescription drug prices. “The president, during the campaign, you probably remember when he said he was going to ‘negotiate like crazy’ to lower prescription drug prices,” House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) told reporters Thursday in the Capitol. “As I've said to you before, ‘negotiating like crazy’ means not negotiating at all, because that's not what happened.” While the Democrats are scratching their heads over Trump’s reversal, they’re also emphasizing the importance of gaining the president’s support if they’re to have any chance of passing a Medicare drug bill next year. “It was very clear that he understood very much that, A, pharma is ripping us off and, B, it’s good politics to be for lower prices,” Welch said, referring to a meeting he and Cummings had with Trump in March 2017. “So he understands it substantively and politically. It’s a mystery to me why candidate Trump isn’t showing up these days. “If he were supportive, specifically got behind it, it would pass,” Welch added. “We need him.”
07.28.2018	For years the State Department had been fighting back a lawsuit from an online company that was forced to take down a downloadable gun blueprint because the post was a violation of the international traffic in arms regulations. But starting August 1, anyone with internet and a 3D printer will be able to make an untraceable handgun, rifle or assault weapon. The State Department has decided to allow a private company to post gun blueprints on-line for anyone to access. Austin-based company called Defense Distributed plans to launch an online database on August 1st of downloadable blueprints for a wide variety of guns that can be 3D-printed. Lt. Lee Rogers with the Austin Police Department says, “this is something new, this is something that hasn't really been out for that long so I'm not really sure what a 3d printed firearm is going to look like so I don't know what it's going to anticipate." APD says if someone is prohibited from possessing a 3D firearm or regular ones then their department will handle it like how they have been doing. Michael Cargill the owner of Central Texas Gun Works says people visiting from other states have asked him about how to build their own gun. He says he was already on the phone talking with someone on how to get the material in to be able to build a 3D printer. “This is America, it's about the constitution, liberty and freedom. You're talking hours to be able to build something like that. It's not the ideal firearm, the liberator, but it is something that you can do at home,” Cargill says. Representative Lloyd Doggett released a statement saying: “Permitting unlimited access to undetectable guns offers a potential recipe for disaster. The stated intent of the founder of Austin-based Defense Distributed is to destroy the gun safety movement being led by our students and their allies. While the reliability and cost of printing current designs may be questionable, undetectable, 3D-printed plastic guns could destroy many lives. These weapons could be carried into an airplane, a courthouse, a school or anywhere else without detection by screening devices. This serious danger to our safety results from recent Trump Administration action that will permit instructions for making these plastic guns available next Wednesday, August 1. In suddenly reversing its interpretation of the International Trade in Arms Regulations (ITAR), the Trump State Department apparently relied upon a recent Trump directive: ‘Control of Firearms, Guns, Ammunition and Related Articles the President Determines No Longer Warrant Control Under the United States Munitions List (USML).’ The Trump Administration agreement with the company promoting these plastic guns apparently occurred with no public hearing and no prior notice to gun safety groups. I applaud the efforts of gun safety groups to protect our families.” A person from the board of directors from Texas Gun Works tells FOX 7 Austin, “this is something that may not be able to be stopped. Just because you have the right to, doesn't mean you should do it. This will make the world a dangerous place."
07.28.2018	Since 1985 Austin Habitat for Humanity has built 440 homes in the Austin area, and repaired more than 248 existing homes for the elderly, disabled and veterans. For 30 years, the non-profit, along with over 8,000 volunteers a year, have provided affordable homes and resources to homeowners. For the Quiroz family owning a home seemed like an unreachable goal. But with the help from Austin Habitat for Humanity their dream of becoming homeowners came true. "We wanted a place to call our own," said Elida Quiroz. The non-profit builds homes for working families who cannot afford one. "It doesn't matter who you are where you are what your status is everybody needs help sometimes. If we all just help than everybody will be a little bit better," said Habitat for Humanity Vice President of Construction Billy Whipple. Saturday morning dozens of volunteers along with new homeowners came together to celebrate the dedication of four new homes. With the help of more than 3,000 volunteers working around 30,000 hours and donations from local sponsors including donated land from the Guadalupe Neighborhood Development Corporation (GNDC) four homes in east Austin were made possible. "I want to thank God for this thank Habitat GNDC and all the volunteers who were out here countless hours," said Steven Quiroz. Construction for the homes took over six months, each home built to be energy efficient. "They're designed to be NetZero so they are going to produce as much energy as they consume so they have solar panels on them designed with advanced wall construction. So they are going to be the most energy efficient homes that we ever built and provide long time affordability for these families," said Whipple. Congressman Lloyd Doggett said with growing home prices in Austin programs such as Habitat for Humanity give families a chance at building stability and an opportunity. "It's a way people can volunteer with their time, money their old building supplies and make a difference for a neighbor and create the happiness on the faces I've seen on these families their children to know that they now own their own home.," said Doggett. An opportunity the Quiroz family said will always be grateful for. "It's a dream come true. We've been praying for it and asking god for a home," said Elida Quiroz. According to organizers for Austin Habitat for Humanity the families will be able to move in as soon as the city completes inspections. To find out more you can visit the website for Austin Habitat for Humanity.
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives unveiled an election-year tax plan on Tuesday that is unlikely to become law but could energize party voters this autumn by promising permanent tax cuts for individuals and most business owners. Days before lawmakers head home for five weeks of summer campaigning before the Nov. 6 congressional elections, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady rolled out a “Tax Reform 2.0” proposal that would also expand savings opportunities for families and workers while expanding write-offs for start-up businesses. “This is an excellent first step,” Brady, a Republican, told reporters after showing the plan to members of his party. House Republicans plan three pieces of legislation covering permanence, savings and business in hopes of reaping some success in the Senate. Other ideas, including a measure to protect capital gains on business investments from inflation, are also under discussion. Brady expects his committee to vote on legislation in September, setting the stage for a House floor vote. But new tax legislation is unlikely to succeed in the Senate, where Republicans would need support from Democrats, who opposed last year’s overhaul that permanently slashed corporate taxes but provided only temporary reductions for individuals and business owners. Democrats charged that the tax law largely benefited wealthy Americans and corporations. Some $1.1 trillion of the cuts will expire after 2025, a factor contributing to the overhaul’s unpopularity with voters, according to polling. “Don’t expect the sequel to be any better than the original. More of a bad idea is still a bad idea,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Democrat on Brady’s committee. But Republicans hope new legislation could appeal to voters, while helping focus the congressional election campaign on buoyant economic growth, rather than President Donald Trump’s trade wars, immigration policy and federal probes into Russian election meddling. “Voters like tax cuts. I don’t know of too many people who say: ‘Raise my taxes.’ It’s what the people want. They want to keep their money,” said Representative Scott DesJarlais. But some Republicans are concerned about adding hundreds of billions of dollars more to the federal deficit, and the new plan offers no way to pay for an extension of the cuts. Additionally, the proposal would create “fully flexible” Universal Savings Accounts for families, allow education savings to be spent on apprentice fees and give new parents penalty-free access to retirement accounts for child expenses. It also calls for allowing start-up companies to write off more of their initial costs as a way to foster innovation and productivity. While Senate action is unlikely before the November elections, the Senate could use a House measure during the post-election lame-duck session as a vehicle for bipartisan legislation to address provisions of the 2017 overhaul that have had unintended effects, including higher-than-expected tax bills for some corporations. Reporting by David Morgan; Additional reporting by Lisa Lambert; Editing by Bill Trott and Peter Cooney
07.25.2018	House Democrats on Wednesday introduced a bill to allow Medicare to negotiate drug prices, hoping to lay the groundwork for a push on the issue next year. President Trump previously supported the idea, which is usually associated with Democrats, but did not propose it as part of the drug pricing plan he released in May. Democrats have attacked Trump for not going far enough to reduce soaring medication costs. “This bill calls the President's bluff on his drug pricing promises,” said Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), who is a lead sponsor of the bill along with Reps. Peter Welch (D-Vt.) and Elijah Cummings (D-Md.). Doggett said in an interview that lawmakers are introducing the bill now so that it can be fine-tuned and ready for a push next year if Democrats win back the House in November. “We're trying to lay the groundwork for the next session,” he said, saying that Democrats want to be “ready to go with something” to vote on next year. The measure has over 60 Democratic cosponsors. The Trump administration has taken several steps on drug pricing already this year. Last week, for example, officials announced they are exploring allowing importation of drugs to increase competition when there are price spikes on old, off-patent drugs, a potentially significant step. But Democrats want to go farther, and use Medicare’s negotiating power to bring down costs. "It defies logic that the federal government is not using its enormous purchasing power to get a better deal for seniors on prescription drugs,” Welch said.
07.24.2018	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Ways & Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, reacted to the Republican proposal for more tax breaks. Rep. Doggett said: “Don’t expect the sequel to be any better than the original. More of a bad idea is still a bad idea. Fiscal irresponsibility is the Republican monster that will not die. The 2.0 tax plan is no summer blockbuster; it is a budget-buster. Republicans offer a sequel featuring more tax breaks for the wealthy few and an endless trail of red ink. Once again, the few get much and the many get little. “We can already see from the first tax scam that large multinationals and wealthy shareholders have seen windfalls, while wages for working families remain stagnant, and healthcare costs continue to rise under Republican policies. “The fiscal recklessness of the tax scam and its sequel will put Medicare and Social Security at risk, making it harder for Americans to make ends meet when they retire. It wasn’t enough to add over $2 trillion to the debt so that those at the top could get a tax break. Republicans now insist on saddling our kids and grandkids with at least three-quarters of a trillion dollars more in debt, meaning more borrowing from the Chinese and the Saudis. As working families are asked to pay higher health premiums and cope with the future cuts to Social Security and Medicare that Republicans have proposed, all they can think of is further stuffing the pockets of their campaign donors. “Instead of investing in windfalls for the wealthy, and tax breaks for CEOs, we should invest in working families—in affordable health care, more educational opportunity, rebuilding our infrastructure—investments that grow the economy for everyone.” ###
07.24.2018	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Ways & Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, spoke in a trade hearing today regarding the new aluminum product exclusion benefitting a sanctioned Russian company, which was approved by the Trump Administration a mere three days after the Trump-Putin Helsinki summit. Watch his speech here: “On July 16, Mr. Trump surrendered to Mr. Putin at a two-hour meeting, which was so secret that even the director he appointed as the head of the CIA could not attend. A mere three days later, Rusal USA got their exclusion approved by the Commerce Department,” said Rep. Doggett. “They are now permitted to import 3 million kilograms of aluminum commodity billet tariff-free from their parent in Russia, which has been under sanctions.” Rep. Doggett continued, “I want to draw attention to who the people are that are working with Rusal USA from their Russian parent, Oleg Deripaska and Viktor Vekselberg, who are the two largest shareholders. And they remain under individual sanctions because of the malign activity of the Russians and the conclusions of a number of our diplomats in leaked cables that they are two or three of the oligarchs that are closest to Putin and to whom he turns on a regular basis. Mr. Deripaska has been accused of illegal wiretaps, extortion, racketeering, money laundering, and death threats against his business rivals.” “This was one tariff exclusion quickly approved, while over 28,000 exclusions are still unresolved. It certainly looks to me like Rusal got special treatment right after the surrender in Helsinki,” he said. “Secretary Ross avoided answering my specific question to him in March concerning why tariffs were applied globally rather than targeting Russia and other specific countries. Now we have another hearing where Republicans refuse to summon any Administration witness. All Secretary Ross can do is forward a one-page statement about the exclusion process and no one from the Commerce Department or the Administration can come and explain the confusing trade policy of the Trump Administration, the erratic nature of it, this is really, really unacceptable.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: replloyddoggett
07.24.2018	***Media Advisory*** For Immediate Release July 24, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery (202) 225-4865 #EndRxMonopolyPrices: A Bold, Market-Driven Plan to Lower Prescription Drug Prices Washington, DC – Tomorrow, Wednesday, July 25, join Reps. Doggett, Welch, and Cummings as they unveil new legislation to address the prescription drug affordability crisis: The Medicare Negotiation and Competitive Licensing Act. As Republicans continue to fail to address soaring healthcare costs and even promote health tax shelters for the well-off this week, they ignore the needs of working families. One of the top healthcare concerns for Americans is skyrocketing prescription drug prices—and the number one measure that Americans support to rein in those costs is Medicare negotiation. Today, these members are offering the plan that Americans have been demanding: A bold approach to Medicare negotiation that harnesses the government’s purchasing power and relies on market-driven competition to restrain monopoly pricing. Hear directly from a patient affected by soaring prescription drug prices, experts endorsing this plan, and the Members of Congress introducing this proposal to rein in prescription drug costs. WHO: Rep. Lloyd Doggett Rep. Peter Welch Rep. Elijah Cummings Public Citizen President, Rob Weissman Social Security Works President, Nancy J. Altman Patient Affected by Soaring Drug Prices WHEN: Tomorrow, Wednesday July 25, 2018, 11 AM EST WHERE: Rayburn House Office Building Room 2247 ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
07.18.2018	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) today urged Republicans in Congress to not surrender to Trump at a time of sustained Russian aggression. Rep. Doggett said: “Helsinki will be remembered as the place where GOP became shorthand for ‘Government of Putin.’ Just as Trump surrenders to Vladimir Putin, these Helsinki Republicans, congressional Republicans, surrender to Trump. Trump’s own intelligence chief, former senator, lifelong Republican, Dan Coats, says, ‘The warning lights are blinking red again’ on Russian attacks. Yet Helsinki Republicans refuse to act, providing zero to the states to protect election integrity today. Their refusal today to appropriate a dime for state defense against election interference really represents nothing less than unilateral disarmament. Enough excuses! Enough weaknesses! Instead of a President with no scruples and a congressional Republican majority with no spine, we need strong leadership, unafraid to protect our borders, unafraid to protect American families, from the ongoing Russian aggression against our democracy.” Watch his speech here: ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: replloyddoggett
07.18.2018	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) today spoke out against House Republicans’ anti-immigrant resolution, which they have presented under the guise of praising law enforcement. Rep. Doggett said: “Here, the height of hypocrisy, the depth of duplicity. While this Administration relentlessly, baselessly, and desperately attacks federal law enforcement officials—the FBI, the Justice Department, our intelligence agencies, again and again—these same Republicans, so proud of law enforcement in one narrow area today, they are silent. They stand by this tweet-addicted President, who, even this very day, has again denied that Russia poses any threat. Where is your resolution to defend the Federal Bureau of Investigation? Where is your resolution to defend NATO, which has been disparaged by this shameful president? No. What we have today is a shameless, spineless group of Republican congressional enablers who are enabling Trump, who totally ignores those dedicated to defending our borders from Russian aggression. These Republicans claim that we have so much more to fear from little infants and toddlers who cross our southern border, seeking to escape gang and domestic violence, and yet are torn by ICE from their mother’s embrace, than from a murderous Vladimir Putin. Of course we need immigration law enforcement and secure borders. But this resolution ignores many wrongs of ICE, hundreds of claims of harassment, sexual harassment, child separation, and unresponsive bureaucracy. At the same time that they ignore those wrongs, they ignore the wrongs of Trump in impairing other federal law enforcement. Trump’s own intelligence chief, a lifelong Republican that he appointed, warns that our democracy is under sustained Russian assault. Yet they are silent. Trump is impotent in the face of Putin. We need to reject this complicity, the Trump child abuse, and the abuse of federal law enforcement.” Watch his speech here: ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: replloyddoggett
07.18.2018	AUSTIN — What a difference a day makes. President Donald Trump held a joint press conference Monday in Russia with Russian President Vladimir Putin after the two had a two-hour meeting. During the press conference, a journalist asked Trump about Putin and Russian interference in the 2016 election saying, "Every U.S. intelligence agency has concluded that Russia did. Who do you believe?" "I have President Putin, he just said it's not Russia. I will say this. I don't see any reason why it would be," Trump responded. But Tuesday, back in Washington, D.C., Trump said he misspoke. "In a key sentence in my remarks, I said the word 'would,' instead of 'wouldn't,'" he said. "The sentence should have been, 'I don't see any reason why I wouldn't or why it wouldn't be Russia,'" he added. But even with the correction, the president still added a qualifier. "Russia's meddling in the 2016 election took place," he said. "Could be other people also." Austin Congressman Lloyd Doggett told KVUE Tuesday that this wasn't just a slip of the tongue. "This isn't a matter of the word choice he used," Doggett said. "It's not what he said alone, but his whole approach of what he did not say in holding Putin accountable and demanding that these indicted criminals in Russia be presented for trial here," he added. Doggett wants his republican colleagues from Texas and Austin to step up and say something publicly about the president's remarks. Representative Michael McCaul did release a statement Monday. Senator John Cornyn addressed it on the floor Monday saying in part, "I trust our intelligence community. I trust their assessment that there was Russian meddling in the election, but I also trust the investigation so far, which has shown absolutely no collusion." Other republican and democratic lawmakers have condemned the president's remarks. Senator and former presidential candidate John McCain called the comments "disgraceful" and referred to the meeting as a "tragic mistake." United States Speaker of the House Paul Ryan said, "Putin does not share our interests. Vladimir Putin does not share our values." Senate Majority Leader Senator Mitch McConnell said, "Election meddling better not happen again." Texas lawmakers have largely remained silent. KVUE reached out to Senator Ted Cruz and Austin Congressman Roger Williams for a comment, but didn't hear back. Other Republican Congressmen representing Central Texas including Lamar Smith, Bill Flores, and John Carter, didn't release statements either. Political expert and director of the Texas Politics Project Jim Henson said the reason why is mainly politics. "In our last June poll, 88 percent of republicans gave the president a positive job approval. Other republican politicians are very weary of that in an election season. And so, I think the question of the moment is, 'Will the public shift?' How do other republican elected officials gauge that and how do they adjust their own behavior," Henson asked. "As long as Donald Trump has the support of the republican base, you're going to continue to see, you know, in my view, very measured and very careful condemnation of some of these things from republican elected officials, and in ways that reflect the fact that republican officials know that Donald Trump will not hesitate to use the political influence he has right now and to use the bully pulpit of the presidency to criticize them directly and personally, particularly when they're up for re-election. Henson expects national polling on the president's approval rating to be happening now in wake of the president's admitted mistake. The results are something many political insiders will be watching.
07.18.2018	Congressional Democrats on Wednesday railed against indications that the White House is considering an offer from Russian President Vladimir Putin to observe questioning of indicted Russians in exchange for allowing Russian authorities to question American citizens. Numerous Democratic senators and representatives took to Twitter to voice concerns with Trump's apparent willingness to consider the offer, which Putin made during the two leaders' meeting in Finland on Monday. Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) wrote on Twitter that the Senate should take the decision out of Trump's hands. "Congress must come together to prevent Trump from acting on behalf of Russian President Vladimir Putin. This request is absurd," Rep. Colleen Hanabusa (D-Hawaii) tweeted. "Lawmakers and the American people need to know what else Trump promised Putin," she continued. "This is a serious national security issue." At a joint press conference in Finland, Putin said he’d be willing to allow U.S. law enforcement to travel to Russia and observe the questioning of suspects implicated in special counsel Robert Mueller’s probe. In exchange, Putin said he’d want access to U.S. citizens for questioning. Trump appeared receptive to the offer, saying at Monday's press conference that Putin had made an "incredible offer." White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Wednesday that Trump will discuss the offer with other U.S. officials, adding that "there wasn't a commitment made on behalf of the United States." Some Democratic lawmakers responded Wednesday specifically to the suggestion that former U.S. Ambassador to Russia Michael McFaul would be among the Americans to be questioned by Russian authorities. Sen. Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) promised McFaul that he and other lawmakers would support him. Sen. Ed Markey (D-Mass.) warned that Russia was attempting to "create an equivalence" between McFaul and the 12 Russian intelligence officers indicted last week for allegedly interfering in the 2016 election. "America does not expose our nation’s ambassadors to this kind of harassment. Period. Trump must not even consider this," Markey tweeted. Rep. Loyd Doggett (D-Texas) echoed Markey's concerns, adding that Trump's consideration of the offer "shows how far into Putin's pocket he's fallen."
07.17.2018	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) today directly urged his Republican colleagues to defend American values by standing up to Donald Trump’s appeasement of a murderous dictator, Vladimir Putin. Rep. Doggett said, “Putin may well have elected Trump, but Putin is against us all—Democrats and Republicans alike—and he’s against our cherished democracy. Without his congressional Republican enablers, Trump cannot continue to coddle the Russians at the very time when his Director of Intelligence, lifelong Republican Dan Coates, is warning that we’re under sustained Russian attack. Don’t await your retirement to stand up and address the truth of Trump’s betrayal of our country.” Watch his speech here:
07.17.2018	The reviews of President Trump's performance at the summit with Russian strongman Vladimir Putin are in. And let's just say the ones from San Antonio's congressional delegation are on the green-and-squishy end of the Tomatometer. Using the #TreasonSummit hashtag, U.S. Rep. Joaquin Castro described the president's kowtowing press conference as "an act of treachery against the American people." U.S. Rep. Will Hurd, a member Trump's own party, unloaded on the reality show star-turned-president in tweets that highlighted his own background as a CIA officer. "We should not start trade wars with our allies and play nice with communist tyrants," the Republican congressman said. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a Democrat, tweeted with an attached press statement that blasted Trump for his inability to call out Putin's numerous toxic actions on the world stage. "[Trump] appears totally impotent in the face of Putin," Doggett said. "In the struggle to preserve the free world, Trump proudly yields right of way to the oppressor. In all of Trump’s tweets, attacks, and insults, the one person he routinely praises is a ruthless dictator: Vladimir Putin, who poisons his enemies, invades Ukraine, facilitates war crimes in Syria, and disrupts democracies." Democratic U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar took a similar approach, linking a press statement to his Twitter account. "It is troubling that our President sees an equivalency between the unbiased and qualified expertise of our intelligence community and the personal word of Russian President Putin," Cuellar said. "President Trump’s disregard of our intelligence is a disservice to the American people and greatly undermines our Democratic values.” Sen. John Cornyn didn't tweet his assessment. Instead, he told CNN that senators may put together a nonbonding "sense of the Senate" resolution to register objections with Trump's statements during his jaw-dropping news conference with Putin. "I don't think we should be taking a former KGB colonel's word for what their intelligence apparatus is doing or not doing," the Senate Majority Whip said. "I believe our intelligence community." As of this morning, Republican Sen. Ted Cruz's Twitter feed was absent of any mention of the summit. Retiring U.S. Rep. Lamar was also silent on Twitter, this morning retweeting a link to a statement he delivered called "The Future of Fossil: Energy Technologies Leading the Way."
07.17.2018	President Trump met with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday in Helsinki. In a subsequent joint news conference, Trump appeared to endorse Russia’s position that it did not meddle in the U.S. presidential election. Trump also blamed the United States for the worsening relationship. This prompted swift outrage, even from some Republicans. Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) called the remarks “disgraceful” and said “no prior president has ever abased himself more abjectly before a tyrant.” And Sen. Ben Sasse (R-Neb.) said he was “disgusted.” Former CIA director John Brennan wrote, “It was nothing short of treasonous. Not only were Trump’s comments imbecilic, he is wholly in the pocket of Putin.” Another accusation leveled at Trump carries particular historical weight: that Trump is appeasing Russia. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Tex.) worried more about “unknown appeasement in private.” Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Tex.) went further, tweeting that “It was nothing more than the @potus agreeing hand-in-glove with the Russian autocrat.” Appeasement is not a new charge in the history of U.S.-Soviet/Russian summits. What Trump is doing is not appeasement, however. If anything, it could be even more problematic — both for U.S. foreign policy goals and the teetering liberal order that has governed international politics since the end of World War II. Appeasement has been a common charge Throughout the Cold War, U.S. leaders met with their Soviet rivals. At almost every meeting, the president was accused of appeasement. Dwight Eisenhower explicitly rejected the strategy of appeasement. He told the public in 1959 that “The course of appeasement is not only dishonorable, it is the most dangerous one we could pursue.” But when Eisenhower invited Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev to visit the United States in 1959, people called it appeasement. Conservative author William Buckley Jr. gave a speech in which he said, “That he should achieve orthodox diplomatic recognition not four years after shocking history itself by the brutalities of Budapest; months after shooting down an unarmed American plane; only weeks since he last shrieked his intention of demolishing the west; only days since publishing in an American magazine his undiluted resolve to enslave the citizens of free Berlin … Will he not return to Moscow convinced that he heard — with his own ear — the death rattle of the west.” When Richard Nixon went to a summit in Moscow in 1972, he too was accused of appeasement. U.S. Rep. John Ashbrook wrote, “the total history of man indicates we can place very little reliance on treaties or written documents. This is especially true when the agreements are with nations or powers which have aggressive plans. Hitler had plans. Chamberlain’s Munich served only to deaden the free world to reality. The communists have plans. SALT will merely cause us to lower our guard, possibly fatally.” Conservative activist Phyllis Schlafy was even more blunt, saying, “Civilized people don’t dine with murderers and criminals.” Democrats were not immune to making or facing similar accusations. Henry “Scoop” Jackson, a Democratic senator from Washington state, criticized Jimmy Carter’s 1979 summit with the Soviets, saying that “To enter a treaty which favors the Soviets as this one does on the ground that we will be in a worse position without it, is appeasement in its purest form. … It is all ominously reminiscent of Great Britain in the 1930s. … The failure to face reality today, like the failure to do so then — that is the mark of appeasement.” Even Ronald Reagan was called an appeaser. When he held a summit in 1987 with Mikhail Gorbachev, Howard Philips, the head of the Conservative Caucus, announced an “anti-appeasement” group designed to attack Reagan, calling him a “useful idiot for Soviet propaganda” and “a weak man.” The appeasement charge is usually hollow The analogy to British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain’s 1938 appeasement of Adolph Hitler is premised on the notion that if you make concessions to an aggressor, the aggressor becomes more aggressive. Many political scientists have questioned the value of the analogy, however. Appeasement can be useful to buy time to confront adversaries or produce future cooperative behavior. Indeed, taken to its extreme, criticism of appeasement might prevent any concession in a negotiation with an enemy because any concession might then make the enemy become more aggressive. But there is ample historical evidence that the negotiations during the Cold War helped manage crises between adversaries while preventing a global war. Trump’s strategy may be much worse In the end, stretching the analogy to cover Trump’s meeting with Putin may confuse the term appeasement with other, more salient accusations. If the summit was only a political show, it is different than appeasement because it does not involve making substantive concessions on territory or arms. Earlier criticisms — especially of presidents Nixon, Ford and Carter, described how their dealmaking led the United States to adopt an inferior strategic position. At Helsinki, there appears to be no deal. If the summit was only political theater, it not a traditional appeasement strategy. In fact, the criticisms leveled at Trump imply that he is engaging in a far more dangerous strategy than appeasement. No other president blamed the United States for the sour state of a relationship, as Trump did when he tweeted “Our relationship with Russia has NEVER been worse thanks to many years of U.S. foolishness and stupidity and now, the Rigged Witch Hunt!” Moreover, no other president was accused of engaging in appeasement for personal profit, such as when Rep. Nancy Pelosi said his performance “proves that the Russians have something on the President, personally, financially or politically.” To understand the outcry requires changing historical analogies. Trump’s critics are not just accusing him of making bad policy. They are arguing that he is closer to a Manchurian candidate, controlled by Russia. These charges are different but may be even more serious than appeasement. After all, no one believed Hitler had damning videos of Neville Chamberlain.
07.16.2018	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, today issued this statement on President Trump’s meeting with Vladimir Putin and Trump’s refusal to side with U.S. intelligence agencies regarding Russian interference in our election: “Defying even the alert of his own Republican Director of National Intelligence regarding Russian aggression against us, Trump engages in a shameful and dangerous display in public with unknown appeasement in private. He appears totally impotent in the face of Putin. In the struggle to preserve the free world, Trump proudly yields right of way to the oppressor. In all of Trump’s tweets, attacks, and insults, the one person he routinely praises is a ruthless dictator: Vladimir Putin, who poisons his enemies, invades Ukraine, facilitates war crimes in Syria, and disrupts democracies. Perhaps more shocking than Trump’s weakness is the deafening silence of his Republican enablers in Congress. A retirement announcement should not be a prerequisite for Republicans to stand up to Trump and his autocratic buddies.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: replloyddoggett
07.13.2018	
07.12.2018	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, today offered an amendment to ensure that health care plans could not take away protections for people with pre-existing conditions. The Trump Administration is determined to take away such protections. Republicans in committee rejected his amendment on a party-line vote. Rep. Doggett said: “All that my amendment does is make it very clear that the plans purchased through this expansion will not take away in the fine print what they promise in the bold print: that they protect Americans with pre-existing conditions. I think my concern is that with the sustained attacks, the sustained sabotage of the Affordable Care Act, more Americans—almost half of the people in the State of Texas, were found to have a pre-existing condition, defined very broadly in the past before the Affordable Care Act, to include everything from domestic violence to diabetes—that those people not find that they suddenly face limitations or that they’re barred from coverage altogether. I think the problem that we have with this whole package of legislation is that there’s more than a little amnesia about where we were before the Affordable Care Act. And how many of them were being denied or limited in their coverage. We don’t get better health for individuals and we certainly don’t get better health for our economy. If you could afford your coverage, it usually meant it did not cover you when you needed it.” Watch his initial remarks here. And watch his concluding remarks here.
07.11.2018	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, offered a motion to stop and take a week to determine how to pay for legislation that would cost a full $92 billion, while only alleviating health care costs for the wealthy. Republicans in committee rejected his motion on a party-line vote. “We should not be talking about Health Savings Accounts today, we should be talking about saving our health care,” Rep. Doggett says. “Incredibly, some of the legislation before us was introduced less than a week ago, and just as with their tax scam bill, it was hidden as long as possible and not paid for. You don’t keep work you are proud of hidden in the dark.” Watch his remarks on his motion to postpone this rushed, $92 billion bill here:
07.10.2018	WASHINGTON — Since President Donald Trump announced Judge Brett Kavanaugh to serve as the next Supreme Court justice, politicians and advocates have flocked to cable news and social media to share their reactions. The only two Texans with a say in his confirmation — Republican Sens. John Cornyn and Ted Cruz — were quick to praise the nominee, who was appointed by President George W. Bush to the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals after a stint as a top White House aide to Bush. “Judge Kavanaugh is an exceptionally qualified jurist who will be a fair and impartial arbiter of the law and will not legislate from the bench,” Cornyn said in a statement. “Throughout his tenure, Judge Kavanaugh has served with a high moral standard and demonstrated a clear commitment to faithfully interpreting the Constitution.” "Most importantly, and as evidence of Judge Kavanaugh's good judgment, he made the wise decision to marry a Texan," Cornyn joked on the floor of the Senate Tuesday. Kavanaugh's wife, Ashley Estes Kavanaugh, is a graduate of Abilene Cooper High School and the University of Texas at Austin. Cruz had expressed doubts about Kavanaugh and publicly supported Utah Republican Sen. Mike Lee as the best choice, but was quick to fall in line. “Judge Kavanaugh is a serious nominee. By any measure, Judge Kavanaugh is one of the most respected federal judges in the country,” Cruz told The Dallas Morning News at the White House after the announcement. “He has a record that is distinguished with regard to separation of powers, it’s distinguished with regard to reining in the unchecked power of federal agencies, it's distinguished with regards to the second amendment, and it's distinguished with regards to religious liberty,” he said, noting that he expects Kavanaugh to be confirmed by the first Monday in October — the start of the court’s next term. Former President George W. Bush expressed excitement about the nominee. Kavanaugh served Bush as a deputy White House counsel and as staff secretary, the individual who decides what paperwork lands on a president's desk Bush called Kavanaugh “a brilliant jurist who has faithfully applied the Constitution and laws throughout his 12 years on the D.C. Circuit.” He also noted that he is a “fine husband, father, and friend — a man of the highest integrity.” Ashley Kavanaugh also served as a private secretary to Bush while he was Texas governor and later president. A few key votes Whether or not Kavanaugh is confirmed hinges on a few key votes. Republicans have only a 51-49 majority, and with Arizona Sen. John McCain recovering from cancer treatment, they effectively have only 50 votes — some of which are uncertain. Sens. Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska support abortion rights. Collins said last week that she would vote against a nominee who indicated that they didn’t respect Roe vs. Wade — the landmark 1973 case that granted women the right to an abortion — as settled law. Both released cautious statements about Kavanaugh. Collins praised his "impressive credentials and extensive experience" but said she’d have to “conduct a careful, thorough vetting” prior to making a decision. Via Twitter, Murkowski promised a “rigorous and exacting” review of his record. Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky had expressed doubts about Kavanaugh and told some colleagues last week that he would vote no. Monday night, though, he said he’d keep “an open mind.” Three Democrats who are up for re-election in red states — Sens. Joe Donnelly of Indiana, Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota and Joe Manchin of West Virginia — are also seen as possible votes for the nominee. Donnelly and Heitkamp promised a careful and fair review. Manchin emphasized the importance of the Affordable Care Act in his decision. “The Supreme Court will ultimately decide if nearly 800,000 West Virginians with pre-existing conditions will lose their health care,” he said on Twitter. “This decision will directly impact almost 40 percent of my state, so I’m very interested in his position.” Most Democrats opposed The majority of Democrats, senators and otherwise, condemned the nominee. Rep. Louie Gohmert, R-Tyler, said that knee-jerk reaction — including a generic statement the Women’s March issued, slamming the nominee, but with “XX” in place of the name — was outrageous. “They didn't care who the president appointed. They were going to war over it, and it all just continues to destroy their credibility,” Gohmert told Fox News. “You’ve got to overlook his Ivy League background and how they don’t teach much in the way of the Constitution,” said the former judge, who got his law degree at Baylor. Sens. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y., Cory Booker, D-N.J, and Bernie Sanders, I-V.T., spoke at a protest at the Supreme Court on Monday night. Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., called the nominee a “political animal.” “I want to know his values. What he’s revealed so far does not reflect America’s values,” she said on MSNBC, referring to his dissent in the ruling that forced federal immigration officials to allow a undocumented minor to receive an abortion. She also attacked his ideology, questioning whether or not he was truly the originalist that conservatives lauded him as. “He didn’t limit himself to what’s constitutional,” Warren said. “Instead, he thought it was better to substitute his own judgment.” Warren and other Democrats — including Reps. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Dallas and Lloyd Doggett of Austin — also expressed grave concerns about statements Kavanaugh made regarding investigations and indictments of sitting presidents. “Judge Kavanaugh wrote from the bench that presidents should be shielded from investigations or lawsuits during their term, while being part of the team that spent more than four years investigating President Clinton,” Johnson said in a statement. “I am concerned that Judge Kavanaugh's history of contradictions would cloud his judgment on issues pertaining to the investigation into the president and make uncertain his likely claims to defend previous court precedents.” Doggett said that these concerns necessitated delaying Kavanaugh’s confirmation. “In no event should this nominee be considered until Congress reviews Special Counsel Mueller’s report regarding likely Trump collusion with the Russians and obstruction of justice,” he said on Twitter. Other Democrats — including Senate Minority Leader Sen. Chuck Schumer of New York, Reps. Sheila Jackson Lee of Houston and Marc Veasey of Fort Worth, and Colin Allred, who is challenging Dallas Rep. Pete Sessions — focused on fears regarding how Kavanaugh might rule on contentious social issues such as abortion and Obamacare. Critics have already begun poring through more than 300 opinions he authored in 12 years as an appellate judge. “Because of Judge Kavanaugh’s history of voting against working families, a woman’s right to choose, and access to health care, I oppose his nomination to #SCOTUS. He will make it harder for North Texans to get ahead,” Allred said on Twitter. Only the Senate has a formal role in presidential nominations, however. Cecile Richards, former president of Planned Parenthood, said that “every major national anti-choice organization is popping the champagne” over Trump’s selection. At his 2006 confirmation hearing for the appellate bench, Kavanaugh said he’d obey precedent on Roe. “If confirmed to the D.C. Circuit, I would follow Roe vs. Wade faithfully and fully. That would be binding precedent of the court. It's been decided by the Supreme Court,” he said, though he refrained from sharing his personal view on the matter. But Trump chose from a list of 25 potential nominees vetted by the conservative Federalist Society and executive Leonard Leo, who has vowed for years to position the courts to overturn Roe. Trump has repeatedly promised to use his appointment power to do that, as well. Schumer warned that this nomination marks the fulfilment of Trump’s promise to “undo women’s reproductive freedom” and Obamacare. Many Texas Republicans in Congress shared enthusiasm for Kavanaugh and urged the Senate to confirm him. “Judge Brett Kavanaugh is a proven public servant and brilliant legal mind, and I have no doubt he will continue to uphold the rule of law as a member of the U.S. Supreme Court,” Sessions said. Friendswood Rep. Randy Weber called Kavanaugh “a fantastic choice.” Rep. John Ratcliffe of Heath, a former U.S. attorney, said Kavanaugh “will have a lasting impact on our country” due to his “longstanding and unwavering commitment to upholding justice.” Rep. Kevin Brady of The Woodlands hailed him as “a well-respected, pro-life justice that believes in the #RuleofLaw and upholding the Constitution.” Trump, he said, has “transformed our courts. ... The impact is generational.”
07.10.2018	Highlights The president nominated federal appeals court Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. Experts say his confirmation would make the nation’s highest court reliably conservative for a generation. Members of Congress representing Central Texas reacted to President Donald Trump’s nomination of federal appeals court Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court: “In the coming weeks, we will hear a lot about Judge Kavanaugh’s interesting life story, about his long career as a dedicated public servant, his service to his community, and, yes, his strong Catholic faith. … We will defend the record of Judge Kavanaugh, who I believe is a thoughtful and willing public servant, against deliberate attacks to denigrate him. We will not allow others to distort the nature of his previous judicial decisions or use him as a sacrificial lamb in some sort of vengeance campaign against this president.” — U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas “By any measure, Judge Kavanaugh is one of the most respected federal judges in the country. … Senate Democrats, sadly, will try to demagogue this nomination, but their efforts will not be successful. … As a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, I look forward to his confirmation hearing, where Judge Kavanaugh will have the opportunity to demonstrate to the American people that he will uphold the rule of law and interpret the Constitution according to its original meaning.” — U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas “This court of last resort is one of the last effective checks on Trump power grabs. We must make every possible effort to stop his altering the court in a way that will damage America for more than a generation. In no event should this nominee be considered until Congress reviews special counsel (Robert) Mueller’s report regarding likely Trump collusion with the Russians and obstruction of justice.” — U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin “I support @POTUS’s selection of Brett Kavanaugh to be nominated to the Supreme Court. I urge the Senate to swiftly approve this qualified candidate.” — U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Austin, via Twitter “With his pick of Judge Kavanaugh, President Trump named a very qualified and distinguished jurist. I am optimistic that as a Supreme Court Associate Justice Kavanaugh would not legislate from the bench, would adhere to the Constitution and not let his political views influence his legal decisions.” — U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio “I am very pleased with @POTUS’ decision to nominate Judge Brett Kavanaugh to @SCOTUS. He has a strong record of protecting the rule-of-law and upholding the Constitution. I encourage the Senate to proceed quickly to confirm … Kavanaugh.” — U.S. Rep. Roger Williams, R-Austin, via Twitter “Judge Kavanaugh has shown great respect for the Constitution and the rule of law. He will be a worthy successor to Justice Kennedy and will serve the Court admirably.” — U.S. Rep. Bill Flores, R-Bryan, via Facebook “America is founded on the principles of justice & respect for the rule of law. #SCOTUS fulfills a critical check & balance in our democracy & it is crucial for those entrusted with the duty of sitting on the bench to have an unwavering commitment to the Constitution as written. Judge #Kavanaugh’s record indicates a respect for our founding principles and a dedication to uphold the supreme law of the land, the U.S. Constitution.” — U.S. Rep. John Carter, R-Round Rock, via Twitter
07.06.2018	Two Texas lawyers have accused U.S. immigration officials of denying bond to some asylum-eligible immigrants, keeping them locked up and prolonging family separations in violation of a federal court order. At least seven asylum-seekers being held in Texas have been denied bond despite showing that they had a credible fear of persecution or torture if returned to their home country, the lawyers said, adding that immigrants who pass a “credible fear interview” as part of the asylum process are typically eligible for release while their case proceeds. In a setback for the Trump administration, U.S. District Judge James Boasberg of Washington, D.C., ruled Monday that immigration officials cannot arbitrarily detain asylum-seekers who proved they had a credible fear of harm if returned home. In a letter to the deputy director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, requested confirmation that the T. Don Hutto Residential Center in Taylor — where two women were reportedly denied bond last week — is complying with Boasberg’s ruling. “It appears that ICE … has a new policy that deliberately prolongs the pain and anguish of mothers separated from their children,” Doggett’s letter said. “Having made a credible case of fear regarding the home which they fled, legitimate asylum-seekers should not be wrongfully kept from their children and in fear here in America.” According to Doggett’s letter, at least 35 mothers are being held in the Taylor detention center “whose children were seized from them and who still remain separated. Apparently, a number of these women have already passed their preliminary credible fear interviews.” Doggett also asked if there were any directives, formal or informal, to deny bond to asylum-seekers who have passed their interviews or to deny bond to parents whose children are in federal custody. ICE spokesman Matthew Bourke said the agency has not changed its policy for releasing asylum-seekers on bond. “ICE makes custody decisions on a case-by-case basis, weighing several factors, including immigration history and criminal history. Arriving aliens who have passed the credible fear threshold would have to complete a custody redetermination hearing with an immigration judge before being considered for bond,” Bourke said in a written statement. Austin immigration lawyer Kate Lincoln-Goldfinch said she is representing two mothers at the Taylor detention center who were recently denied bond despite passing their credible fear interviews, including one who would have been reunited with her child upon release. The Office of Refugee Resettlement had recently released the child to a family member. Another lawyer, Jodi Goodwin of Harlingen, said five immigrants — four mothers and one father — were denied bond at the Port Isabel Service Processing Center in the Rio Grande Valley despite passing their credible fear interviews. ICE officers previously told detained parents at Port Isabel that they would be reunited with their children if they passed the interview, Goodwin told the American-Statesman. “Each one of those (parents) had been served with their positive credible fear finding, and at the same time they were served with a custody determination of no bond,” said Goodwin, calling the move unusual. “They normally put some bond. Even if it’s a high bond, they normally put something.” Almost 3,000 children have been separated from their parents due to the Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” policy on illegal border crossings. President Donald Trump signed an executive order halting the family separations on June 20 after a widespread backlash. Immigrants who were denied release can appeal the ruling during a bond redetermination hearing in front of an immigration judge. Even so, Goodwin said, that hearing can take up to 10 days to schedule, prolonging parents’ detention and separation from their children. “It’s just another step, another delay. It’s longer until people can get released so that they can get reunified with their kids,” Goodwin said. “It’s tiring, and it’s absurd, and it’s a ridiculous waste of resources on the side of the government.” The Trump administration announced Thursday that it will begin reuniting immigrant families beginning Tuesday with children under 5 years old. The Department of Health and Human Services will use DNA testing to confirm family relationships. HHS Secretary Alex Azar told reporters that entire families may remain in custody, including those claiming asylum, after reunification.
07.05.2018	Rep. Lloyd Doggett has made an official inquiry to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement asking it to explain what appears to be a policy prolonging separation of asylum-seeking immigrants. Such a policy would seem to defy the order of a federal judge which said children separated from their parents under President Donald Trump's "zero-tolerance" policy must be reunited by the end of this month. Doggett, San Antonio-Austin Democrat, fired off the letter after hearing reports of asylum-seeking mothers detained near Austin who were denied release even after proving at a preliminary hearing that they have a “credible fear” of returning to their home countries. While detained, they cannot be reunited with their children, Doggett's office said. "As with many issues, Trump prefers chaos and confusion," Doggett said in a written statement. "The Administration appears to have begun refusing to release mothers even after they have established a well-justified asylum claim. By continuing their detention, Trump ensures that they still cannot be reunited with their wrongfully separated children." Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar today upped his estimate of how many children have been separated by the "zero-tolerance policy." He said nearly 3,000 kids may have been separated from their parents rather than the 2,000 it said it had in its care nine days ago. You can read Doggett's letter here, along with excerpts of letters written by detainees.
07.05.2018	**Press Release** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 5, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 New Trump Policy Appears Designed to Prolong Separation of Mother and Child Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) is concerned by new reports regarding asylum-seeking mothers whose children were seized from them and who are being detained near Austin, Texas, which indicate that they are being denied release even after successfully showing at a preliminary hearing that they have a “credible fear” of returning to their home countries. While detained, they cannot be reunited with their wrongfully removed children. Congressman Doggett has made the attached official inquiry to U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) regarding this apparent new Trump policy that appears designed to prolong separation and offered the following related statement: “As with many issues, Trump prefers chaos and confusion. The Administration appears to have begun refusing to release mothers even after they have established a well-justified asylum claim. By continuing their detention, Trump ensures that they still cannot be reunited with their wrongfully separated children. Initially through his ‘zero tolerance’ policy, then by falsely claiming that he was powerless to end it, followed by the failure of his Executive Order to specify any process or timeline for reunifying families, Trump has shown consistent indifference to the children’s best interest. His Administration is apparently ignoring not only the anguished cries of these mothers but also the orders of two federal judges. “I have sought formal confirmation from ICE of what some of its personnel are saying on the ground in Texas. These immigrants have passed their ‘credible fear interviews,’ but all of us as Americans should have credible fear of an Administration that has so little respect for the rule of law and the bonds of mother and child. The ‘zero tolerance’ policy that I support is zero tolerance for Trump’s bigotry, zero tolerance for his demonization of foreigners, and zero tolerance for caging children.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett |
07.01.2018	As thousands in cities across the nation assembled Saturday in protest of immigration policies that have separated families at the United States-Mexico border, several hundred gathered in San Antonio’s Main Plaza to call for reuniting immigrant parents with their children. “My heart is broken. I can’t believe this is the U.S.A.,” said Pam Bryant, a RAICES volunteer who brought her grandsons to the “Families Belong Together” Day of Actionrally. Organized locally by the grassroots ACLU People Power and others, the demonstration was one of more than 700 related rallies across the country all anchored to a similar event in Washington, D.C., that drew an estimated 30,000 protesters. Earlier in the day, another rally in nearby Travis Park brought together about 50 people on the other side of the issue. The “America First” event was held to “take a stand in support of President Trump’s conservative common sense approach to safety and security at the border,” according to its organizers, the Texas Leadership Institute for Public Advocacy. “What is the point of having a nation if you don’t have a border?” asked George Rodriguez, a conservative commentator and Tea Party member, to the group assembled in the square. “Those liberal politicians at the other [rally] will take our freedoms away. … I don’t really care about the greater good of the community because unless as an individual I am free and have my freedoms and liberties, my personal and economic freedoms, the rest doesn’t matter.” A half-mile away, at the “Families Belong Together” rally, protesters wore T-shirts urging people to vote, and waved U.S. flags and posters that expressed both outrage and patriotism – from “We Do Care,” and “Free Los Niños Now” to “Liberty and Justice for All.” From the stage in front of San Fernando Cathedral, Viridiana Carrizales of the social activism group SA Rise, shouted, “We condemn the horrible policies of the Trump administration that is tearing families apart. We will not stay silent. An injustice against one of us is an injustice against all of us.” Local members of the Society of Native Nations opened the rally with traditional native songs and dances of healing, led by Laura Yohualtlahuiz of the Kalpulli Ayolopaktzin in San Antonio. Speakers at the event included elected officials and representatives from organizations that support immigrants: Lenna Baxter of the Interfaith Welcome Coalition (IWC), Jessica Azúa of the Texas Organizing Project, Carolina Canizales of SA Stands, Cynthia Paredes of San Antonio Alliance, and Jennifer Falcon from Refugee and Immigrant Center for Education and Legal Services (RAICES). IWC volunteers collected donations of picture books, coloring books, crayons, and translation dictionaries for detained immigrant children. More than 2,000 immigrant children are reportedly separated from their families, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Austin) told the crowd. “Our first priority at events like this all over the country is to get these children and their parents back together,” Doggett said, but not detained indefinitely or deported without a fair hearing. “We are always proud in San Antonio to call ourselves Military City,” he said. “What city wants to be known as ‘Internment Camp City?’ Our military bases are about keeping America safe, not interfering in the lives of these families coming here to seek asylum.” “On the eve of July fourth, that’s not what America is all about.” A Democrat whose district includes parts of San Antonio and Austin, Doggett has criticized the Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” immigration policy announced in April. The policy calls for prosecuting all undocumented immigrants crossing the border, resuting in families being separated and children held in detention centers while the adults await trial. However, U.S. Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Kevin McAleenan said earlier this week immigration officials have stopped referring for prosecution unauthorized adults who cross the border with children. Doggett implored protesters to demonstrate, volunteer, and participate in elections. In response, protesters waved their flags and banners, and chanted, “Vote! Vote! Vote!” State Rep. Diego Bernal (D-San Antonio) also spoke to the crowd, saying that as a parent, he understands that when a baby cries, “he is looking for his parents,” he said. “Babies are not looking for food. They are looking for their parents to feed them … to comfort them. That is what this is about.”
06.27.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 27, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 This Congress: All Lapdog & No Watchdog Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) spoke on the floor of the House today on his limitations amendment that would have prevented military bases from being turned into child internment camps, joined by 41 of his colleagues. But his effort was blocked in the Rules Committee on a party-line vote, as Republicans prevented its consideration on the floor of the House. Rep. Doggett said, “All lapdog and no watchdog, for this Congress, even terrified toddlers torn from their mother’s embrace are not beyond the limit…I will never yield to a President that knows no limits, and we will not yield in raising the issue of these children.” Watch his speech here. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett |
06.26.2018	
06.26.2018	The Trump administration’s new tax form, which Republicans celebrated being the size of a postcard instead of the standard two pages, could end up leading to additional paperwork for millions of Americans. A draft copy of the new 1040 income tax form obtained by The New York Times showed that while the new tax form is smaller, it will require additional paperwork for multiple popular deductions, including student loan interest. Taxpayers will now have to search for these deductions, which are available on one of six separate worksheets. “The longer form 1040, which all taxpayers have used for decades, is being replaced with Republican mythology that will only complicate tax filing,” Texas Congressman Lloyd Doggett, the highest-ranked Democrat on the Subcommittee on Tax Policy told the Times. The form, he said, “only adds needless complexity and confusion.” Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin announced the postcard would be released last week. “We will be unveiling the new 1040 [form], and it will be a postcard as we’ve promised, and hardworking taxpayers won't have to spend nearly as much time filling out their taxes,” he said. President Donald Trump has been a vocal supporter of the tax form postcard. “It’s going to make life very simple,” Trump said in November in a meeting, where he kissed a draft of the postcard. One of Trump's campaign goals was to “reduce the headaches Americans face in preparing their taxes and let everyone keep more of their money,” according to an outline of the tax plan. The shorter tax form is made possible by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which Trump signed into law in December. The tax plan reduced the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent and repealed the 20 percent corporate alternative minimum tax. The plan also increased after-tax income by an average of 2.2 percent. “Thanks to the historic tax cuts that I signed into law, your paychecks are going way up, your taxes are going way down,” Trump said at a rally in February. “America is once again open for business.” In December, Trump tweeted, “Jobs are kicking in and companies are coming back to the U.S. Unnecessary regulations and high taxes are being dramatically Cut, and it will only get better. MUCH MORE TO COME!” he said. Nancy Pelosi, the House Minority Leader called the tax plan “pathetic” in February after it was signed into law. "The bonus that corporate America received versus the crumbs that they are giving to workers to kind of put the schmooze on is so pathetic," Pelosi said. "It’s so pathetic."
06.26.2018	The Trump administration’s new “postcard” tax form still must be mailed in an envelope, unless you want your neighbors to see your Social Security number. It will save a little bit of time for some taxpayers but could add pages more paperwork for millions of others. A draft copy of the new version of the standard 1040 income tax form, obtained by The New York Times, shows the administration has succeeded in its goal of shrinking the form that most Americans send to the Internal Revenue Service every year. The new form eliminates more than half of the 78 line items from the previous form, reducing it from two full pages of text to one double-sided half page. Check out the old form and the draft new form: Image Image Smaller is not necessarily simpler. The new form omits a variety of popular deductions, including those for student loan interest and teaching supplies, forcing taxpayers to search for them — and tally them up — on one of six accompanying worksheets.
06.26.2018	AUSTIN – Two women are demanding investigations into their allegations of sexual abuse at an immigration detention center be reopened and that the facility be audited for compliance with federal law. The women, whose cases are being handled by the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund, said they were sexually abused beginning more than a year ago by staff members at the women's only T. Don Hutto Residential Center in Taylor, a rural community northeast of Austin. After the complaints were lodged, local law enforcement and the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement found the claim unsubstantiated. However, U.S. Reps. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, and Joaquin Castro, D-San Antonio, and more members of Congress have asked for an audit of the facility. “It is unconscionable that those fleeing abuse abroad may be subject to abuse while in government custody," Doggett said Monday, adding "more audit work remains to ensure compliance with the law.” Reps. Doggett and Castro One of the woman who complained, asylum seeker Laura Monterrosa-Flores from El Salvador, has gone public with her allegations. The other woman has not so her identity is not being published. According to a letter sent Monday by MALDEF to Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen and other federal authorities the women said they were abused by female staff members and that federal authorities failed to protect the people in custody at the 500-bed facility. "DHS failed to take action that could have prevented the sexual abuse of MALDEF’s clients and continues to leave other detainees vulnerable at the Hutto detention center by refusing to provide proper oversight and supervision of detention center staff," the letter said. The demands from the detainees come amid heightened public awareness of conditions at immigration detention centers as the Trump administration pursues its "zero-tolerance" policy toward people who enter the United States without legal permission. Monterrosa-Flores was released from the center in March but has not publicized her whereabouts. She reported being subjected to physical and emotional abuse. Abuse allegations have surfaced in the past against staff members at the Hutto center. In 2012, a federal judge in Austin sentenced Donald Dunn, a former residential supervisor when the facility was called the T. Don Hutto Correction Center, to a year in prison after he was accused of groping women while pretending to do searches. John C. Moritz covers Texas government and politics for the USA Today Network in Austin. Contact him at John.Moritz@caller.com and follow him on Twitter @JohnnieMo. Related coverage
06.25.2018	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) released the following statement on today’s Supreme Court decision regarding the Texas redistricting case: “This weekend I will be home in Texas, as usual, on I-35 doing my best to represent families from South San Antonio to North Austin. Republicans deliberately placed them, along with many other Texans, in districts designed to reduce the accountability and accessibility of their elected representatives. In too many places, access means a cardboard likeness of their Congressmember at citizen-organized gatherings. Today’s Supreme Court decision makes clear that the district which I serve will not change an inch from its original 2011 gerrymandered shape. The powerful dissent of Justice Sotomayor makes clear ‘the serious costs to our democracy’ and great harm to underrepresented minority voters arising from the Court ignoring Republican wrongdoing. Real change depends on whether Texans change the composition of the State Legislature after the 2020 Census.”
06.22.2018	Austin Congressman Lloyd Doggett released a video thanking his constituents for speaking out against separating immigrant families at the Texas border. He also said he will be pushing for legislation AUSTIN -- Following President Donald Trump's executive order on family separations at the United States-Mexico border, Austin Congressman Lloyd Doggett released a video outlining his legislative plans moving forward. Trump signed the executive order Wednesday after days of negative feedback regarding his administration's "zero tolerance" policy. "And with the rescinding of his executive order … he failed to give any direction about what happens to those children," Doggett said. Doggett spoke with KVUE on June 19. He said that the Department of Homeland Security lied about having a policy to separate immigrant families. He also said the administration is using the love between immigrant family members as a weapon against them. In a video released June 21, Doggett thanked constituents who have spoken out about the border crisis. "Know that I will be advancing an amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill to try to restrict the use of our military reservations to separate children," Doggett said in the video. "(Know) that I will be looking for every other way and welcome your recommendations for other steps we can take to see an end to this horrifying practice." He said he also plans to join nationwide protests planned for June 30, to say, "'No' to this destruction of families, and 'yes' to affirming the value that recognizing asylum seekers who have legitimate claims -- that that's what the Statue of Liberty and that's what America was all about."
06.20.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 20, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Rep. Doggett on Trump Executive Order & GOP Bills: Heartless, Toothless Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) issued the following statement on the cruel Trump policy to separate and detain families seeking asylum and his new executive order: “President Trump’s sudden reversal on family separation shows clearly that no law, no court, no Democrat has prevented him from stopping his horrifying policy. With their silence and double-talk, our Republican colleagues have been his enablers. Clearly, Trump could already have ended his self-imposed wrongdoing as fast as he saluted a North Korean General. Now, he needs to explain how soon these terrified toddlers can be returned into their mother’s arms and to apologize for the great pain and child abuse that he has inflicted. Neither the latest order from the ever-vacillating Trump nor pending House Republican legislation will keep innocent children out of lock-up. Both are heartless and toothless. It is neither just to lower the well-established standards for child welfare nor to keep asylum seekers together with their families on a high speed, one way return ticket without access to legal counsel or a fair hearing. Instead, we must write into law a restriction on Trump’s power to promote any further, unjustified family separation.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
06.20.2018	AUSTIN -- Austin Congressman Lloyd Doggett says the Department of Homeland Security lied about having a policy to separate immigrant families. This after the KVUE defenders exposed how immigrants seeking asylum were separated despite breaking no laws when they entered the U.S. After KVUE’s story in February, members of Congress sent a letter to the Homeland Security secretary requesting the department’s policies and initiatives for separating families at the border. In response, Homeland Security claimed no such policy exists. Then, a lot changed. The focus now is how to enforce the law against entering the U.S. between checkpoints, especially when migrants have children. Current policy says zero tolerance. We found it impacts those who also enter the U.S. legally. “I’m very happy to be together with my wife,” said Miguel Bruce Verano when he was released from detention earlier this year. Minna Abreu Garcia and her husband, Miguel, fled persecution in Cuba. They broke no laws when they crossed the border. The married couple seeking asylum was separated at the U.S. port of entry in Laredo even though a Round Rock family waited to support them. “They put a $15,000 bond as if he was a criminal,” said Minna. That bond placed on Miguel kept the couple separated for months. “It’s a relief. At least they’re united again,” said James Johnson, Miguel and Minna’s sponsor. U.S. Representative Lloyd Doggett says few seeking asylum in the U.S. have that help from people like James Johnson and Angela Huber. “For most of these immigrants, couldn’t begin to post a bond of that size … KVUE spotlighted one couple and explained that this is not just numbers, this is human beings,” said Doggett. Rep. Doggett and 75 other lawmakers asked DHS to explain its separation policy. DHS said it didn’t have one. Then, Attorney General Jeff Sessions issued a zero tolerance policy. “I found the Department of Homeland Security not be straight forward on these matters and too often not be responsive,” said Doggett. Rep. Doggett says it’s time to stop using the love between immigrant family members as a weapon against them. “I know we want to help people, couple by couple, person by person, but we need to address the broader issue of how these families are being separated and they are being separated very roughly,” said Doggett. Both Democrats and Republicans want to stop separating immigrant families. Their calls come as images from inside federal detention centers have surfaced. Not only Congressman Doggett is involved from Washington. U.S. Senators John Cornyn and Ted Cruz have also proposed legislation to keep families together. And now, some Texas lawmakers like Texas Speaker of the House Joe Straus and State Representative Cesar Blanco are getting involved, asking President Trump and Governor Greg Abbott Governor to take action.
06.19.2018	
06.17.2018	U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, on the House floor this week compared a slate of bills targeting the opioid epidemic to the equivalent of using a garden hose to fight a wildfire. Congress is considering more than 30 bills to address what health experts have characterized as an ongoing crisis. More than 42,000 people died from opioid overdoses in 2016, the deadliest year on record, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In Travis County between 2006 and 2016, opioid overdoses nearly doubled, contributing to the deaths of 590 people, health data show. “America does have a fire when it comes to opioid crises,” Doggett said Wednesday. “What we’re getting this week and next, instead of experienced professional firefighters with a plan to put out that wildfire, we’re being offered a collection of garden hoses. It won’t get the job done.” Many of the bills were adopted this week under expedited procedures because they were not controversial, meaning they didn’t get a roll call vote. They included things such as creating interagency task forces and advisory committees. “I am not opposed to these bills,” said Doggett, whose district includes parts of Travis and Bexar counties. “Most of them just don’t do any good.” A few controversial bills did make the cut, including one adopted Thursday that will set aside as many as 10,000 Section 8 housing vouchers for people recovering from opioid addiction and other substance use disorders. Opponents of the bill worry the vouchers would be diverted from other needy recipients. Lawmakers, seeking to prevent the import of synthetic opioids through the U.S. Postal Service, approved a bill that would require international shipments to include electronic tracking data and a list of package contents. The American Postal Workers Union had opposed the measure, saying it would force the postal service to cut costs in other areas “to the detriment of the American public,” according to a letter penned to congressional representatives. Congress also approved a bill introduced by Rep. John Katko, R-NY, which will create a new class of controlled substances for various compounds of the drug fentanyl, a strong synthetic opioid that is contributing to the rise in overdose deaths. The bill, if adopted, will allow the attorney general to add other drugs to the new category. The bills have been rolled into a larger package that will likely be considered by lawmakers next week on a second vote. Doggett said none of the measures set aside any money for treatment services, which are greatly needed to solve the opioid problem. He said cuts in Medicaid will further reduce the availability of services, particularly in Texas. The Texas Health and Human Services Commission has said the state desperately needs more medication-assisted treatment programs and struggles to find permanent funding to fight the opioid crisis. “My feeling is, as too often happens in Congress, this is the appearance of action rather than action,” Doggett said Wednesday. “We need serious responses to a problem that is costly and that is complex.” Doggett, who sits on the House Ways and Means Committee, had introduced several amendments to the bills that were considered, none of which were approved. He had hoped to see the U.S. Justice Department join states and municipalities in suing pharmaceutical companies for reimbursements for their part in creating the opioid crisis. Texas and Travis County this year both filed lawsuits seeking reimbursements against drugmakers for misrepresenting the risks of medications like OxyContin. “If every one of the bills being considered, all 30 of them, are approved, few of those who really need treatment are going to get it as a result of this,” Doggett said. “And none of those responsible for this crisis will be held accountable.” Doggett also had pushed to reduce costs for the drug naloxone, which reverses the effect of an opioid overdose. The medication has skyrocketed in price in recent years amid the epidemic. “With the increased demand on these drugs to equip police, emergency medical providers, schools, families and friends, the burden on public programs has become overwhelming,” Doggett wrote to the White House last month. “Access to the drug is literally a matter of life and death.”
06.13.2018	***Press Release*** FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 13, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery 202-225-4865 Legislation to Confront Opioid Crisis: Garden Hoses Against a Wildfire Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Tax Policy, spoke on the floor of the House about the very modest opioid bills the House is considering this week. He detailed the ways in which these measures fall far short of confronting the dire opioid crisis and holding Big Pharma accountable. You can watch his speech here or read the remarks below. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett House Floor Speech, June 13, 2018 America does have a fire when it comes to opioid crises. What we're getting this week and next, instead of experienced professional firefighters with a plan to put out that wildfire, we're being offered a collection of garden hoses. It won't get the job done. If words, if speeches, if the President's tweets could resolve this problem, we could be here today celebrating a victory. But instead we have a piecemeal program around the edges of the crises. And you only have to look at the President's tweets and his near meaningless declaration of the health care emergency at how he's handling the problem to know how serious these Republicans are about it. I think the President views this as just another one in a series of political reality television shows that he is producing daily. Because instead of turning to a physician, a firefighter, a scientist, a drug policy expert, he's turned over the leadership of his entire opioid crisis effort to a political consultant and double-talk expert, Kellyanne Conway. We haven't seen much other than talk over there. And with these 30 bills that are being considered today, making modest changes around the edges of the problem, we're not going to advance very far. Of course there is a reason for this in this Congress. We can only consider legislation that a majority of the Republican Caucus says we can consider. And they applied a test to get these 30 bills to exclude other ones. The test was twofold: If it costs much of anything, the bill couldn't be considered here. Second, if Big Pharma opposed it, certainly it couldn't be considered here. So like Trump, the Republican Congress offers more words, a few bills that may help a few people, but does not address the central issue in the crisis. What we need is substantial additional resources for treatment. Instead of going in that direction, the Republicans turned about-face and they are trying to drag us backward so we'll have even fewer treatment options than we do today. The President's latest assault on all Americans who have a pre-existing condition to deny them access to health care, his assault to cut billions out of Medicaid will deny the very places that so many people now can turn to for opioid treatment. So they won't add resources, they won't permit us to add resources, and they want to take away the resources that exist today. Of course much of the treatment that is out there is necessary because of the wrongs committed by pharmaceutical manufacturers in promoting these opioids in the first place. And here again the test is not approved for bringing legislation on the floor because Big Pharma opposes it. I believe we should be following the lead of 41 State Attorneys Generals across America who are saying, let's look at what Pharma did to cause this problem. Why make the taxpayer pay for everything when Big Pharma played such a role? We ought to have accountability for those that helped to create the opioid crisis. And yet the federal government, though, again Trump talked about it, but he didn't do anything. After talking about it, the Justice Department and Trump Administration has done nothing. In one single year, Medicaid paid out $9.3 billion associated with this opioid crisis. Billions and billions of dollars and yet when I tried in the Ways and Means Committee to get involved in terms of getting back the money Medicare has paid out, other billions of dollars, it was rejected on a party-line vote. And at the very time that we're being told our police and first responders across America and indeed individual citizens should be carrying Naloxone, a drug that can reverse the effects of overdoses and prevent a death. We have seen an incredible spike from Big Pharma in the cost of that. I see headlines, “How does a $575 lifesaving drug jump to $4,500?” Because these pharmaceutical manufacturers think they can hijack America and particularly our law enforcement sources. We need more than a photo-op type of version of these measures. If every one of the bills being considered, all 30 of them, are approved, few of those who really need treatment are going to get it as a result of this. And none of those responsible for this crisis will be held accountable. This crisis is a true hurricane. It's being treated like a dust devil. So approve these modest proposals that do no harm, but then let's move forward with a Congress that really wants to solve the problem. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
06.07.2018	UNITED STATES CONGRESS For Immediate Release June 7, 2018 Contacts: Kate Stotesbery (Doggett) 202-225-4865 Alexa Papadopoulos (Cummings) 202-225-4741 Reps. Doggett & Cummings: DOJ Response to Whistleblower Immigration Judge Inquiry Fails to Address Allegations and Renews Concerns of Politicization Washington, D.C.— Today, U.S. Representative Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) and Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) issued the below joint statement after the Department of Justice (DOJ) responded to a letter they sent on April 17, 2018, along with Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA) and Joaquin Castro (D-TX), alleging that the Executive Office for Immigration Review and the Department of Justice engaged in illegal political discrimination when hiring immigration judges and members of the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA): “The Department of Justice’s response to our inquiry provides further evidence—in additional examples of delayed appointments—that the Trump Administration may have delayed multiple immigration judge appointments for political reasons. Only after we made this issue public and requested an Inspector General review did the Department finally end some of these delays and appoint six of those judges. Unfortunately, the Department refused to provide many of the documents we requested and failed to address several detailed allegations that the Trump Administration may have violated the same law previously violated by the Bush Administration—by targeting candidates based on their perceived political or ideological views. The Department needs to produce the documents we requested, including those relating to candidates who did not receive offers, as well as internal communications relating to alleged attempts to use a pretext to cover up political bias. At a time when immigration courts face massive backlogs and critical shortages of judges, the Trump Administration has been slow to fill positions, and there are cases in which judges appear to have met every qualification except the Administration’s anti-immigration litmus test. Following our letters, at least six more judges will be appointed. Hopefully, as we requested last month with our colleagues on the House and Senate Judiciary Committees, the Inspector General will fully investigate these troubling revelations to ensure that immigration judges are selected without regard to politics.” Yesterday, DOJ responded to the Members’ inquiry in a letter and provided documents that largely consisted of publicly available records. The Department denied the allegations, but only provided some requested information about delays in hiring of certain candidates. The Department failed to provide much of the information the Members requested, including communications about these delays necessary to evaluating the truth of these allegations. On May 8, 2018, these Members of Congress, along with Sen. Richard Durbin (D-IL), Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), and Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) – the Ranking Members of the House and Senate Judiciary Committees and Immigration Subcommittees – requested that the DOJ Inspector General investigate the matter after more whistleblowers came forward. As noted in the Members’ previous letter, in 2008, an investigation conducted by the Inspector General and the Office of Professional Responsibility found that aides to then-Attorney General Alberto Gonzales “considered political or ideological affiliations” when evaluating immigration judge candidates and candidates for the BIA. The report warned that “both Department policy and federal law prohibit discrimination in hiring for career positions on the basis of political affiliations.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
06.04.2018	Re: “Trump drug plan doesn’t go far enough,” Editorial, May 24. Overpromising and underdelivering defines the Trump administration. As your editorial correctly notes, President Donald Trump’s prescription “blueprint” stops far short of needed reforms. While there’s no wonder drug to cure prescription price gouging, more effective solutions exist — Medicare negotiating prescription drug prices like the VA does already, allowing importation of safe drugs, and more competition by ending patent abuse. Lower prices abroad only demonstrate that we have no “deal-maker in chief” here to protect Americans. Nonsense to believe that even if we could force foreigners to pay more, we would pay less. Trump’s failure hurts people like Elaine in San Antonio, whose monthly $815 drug bill for saving her eyesight “makes it so difficult to finish my senior years with dignity.” With drug prices soaring at 10 times the inflation rate and aware that an unaffordable drug is 100 percent ineffective, our Affordable Prescription Drug Task Force will not give up. We just need some new House members who care enough about Elaine to stand up to Big Pharma. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-San Antonio, 35th Congressional District
06.02.2018	4:45 p.m. update: U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett joined dozens of protesters in downtown Austin to condemn the separation of immigrant families trying to enter the United States. “It strikes me as fundamentally wrong that we literally tear babes from the arms of their mothers,” Doggett said at a rally in Republic Square Park. “This kind of separation causes permanent scars on these children.” Earlier: Protesters will rally in downtown Austin on Friday to denounce the separation of unauthorized immigrant and asylum-seeking families by U.S. officials as they enter the United States. People from several activist coalitions will gather at 4:30 p.m. at Republic Square Park as part of the National Day of Action for Children. Several speakers, including U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett and state Rep. Eddie Rodriguez, both Austin Democrats, will talk about family separation, actions by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, immigration reform efforts and how the community can get involved. After the rally, the group will march for five blocks from the park to Brazos Hall, 204 E. Fourth St. Texas Republican Sen. Ted Cruz and U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Austin, will be speaking at Brazos Hall at 6 p.m. Friday to launch this weekend’s conference for the Maverick political action committee.
06.01.2018	Protesters will rally in downtown Austin on Friday to denounce the separation of some unauthorized immigrant families by U.S. officials as they enter the United States. People from several activist coalitions will gather at 4:30 p.m. at Republic Square Park as part of the National Day of Action for Children. Several speakers, including U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett and state Rep. Eddie Rodriguez, both Austin Democrats, will talk about family separation, actions by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, immigration reform efforts and how the community can get involved. After the rally, the group will march for five blocks from the park to Brazos Hall, 204 E. Fourth St. Texas Republican Sen. Ted Cruz and U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Austin, will be speaking at Brazos Hall at 6 p.m. Friday to launch this weekend’s conference for the Maverick political action committee.
05.30.2018	
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON— Reps. Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Joaquín Castro (TX-20), and Lloyd Doggett (TX-35) secured an amendment to H.R. 5515, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2019 to improve utility service infrastructure for Joint Base San Antonio (JBSA) and the City of San Antonio. Congressman Cuellar said: “San Antonio is experiencing rapid population growth in Bexar County and it is one of the fastest growing areas in the U.S. The increasing need for wastewater services is an essential part of that growth. However, the existing wastewater pipeline, serving over 500,000 people in Southwest San Antonio and JBSA-Lackland AFB, is in poor condition and must be replaced. The segment that runs through the base has experienced numerous sewer overflows, some of the most in the county. Due to these and other sewer discharges in the system, the City of San Antonio was mandated by the EPA to inspect, rehabilitate and replace parts of the sewer pipeline running through JBSA. The San Antonio Water System (SAWS) and JBSA have participated in lengthy negotiations, seeking a solution to replace the aging wastewater pipe. We have tried for a long time to resolve this amicably— In April, Congressman Joaquin Castro and I held a meeting with Executives from the Air Force, San Antonio Mayor Ron Nirenberg, Councilmember Clayton Perry, and SAWS CEO Robert Puente. Additionally, I spoke over the phone with the Air Force Chief of Staff, General Goldfein, in efforts to find out how we could move this vital project forward. Unfortunately, we were not able to come to a definitive agreement. That is why Reps. Castro, Doggett, and I introduced this amendment which brings together JBSA and the City of San Antonio to forge a path forward to replace the pipeline. Specifically, this provision compels the Air Force to conduct a core sampling study at Lackland Air Force Base which is the most effective way to see what potential contaminants are present and will allow this necessary project to get underway. Having the Air Force conduct these soil samples, and allowing this construction project to proceed as planned, the City of San Antonio and customers of the city’s utilities will save over $100 million by avoiding extensive route adjustments. I would like to thank my fellow colleagues from Texas for helping me include our amendment in the final passage of the bill. I would also like to thank Rep. Marc Veasey (D-Fort Worth) for helping us bring this language to the forefront and seek an environmentally responsible solution to this issue. Replacing this pipeline is critical to improving the health, safety, growth, and wellbeing for the City of San Antonio.” Congressman Castro said, “Moving forward with soil samples for this pipeline project is critical for the environment, public health, and San Antonio Water System (SAWS) ratepayers. Failure to do so would result in continued sewer spills, uncertainty for the surrounding community concerning soil contamination, and rate increases for SAWS customers. This amendment allows the Air Force and SAWS to find a path forward for this project while simultaneously helping our community to continue to grow responsibly.” Congressman Doggett said, “Today is a good step forward to ensuring we can safely meet the needs of our growing population. Long ago, I learned the wisdom of the old adage ‘measure twice and cut once.’ This amendment ensures we will soon be armed with all the facts so we don’t take a problem and make it worse. As our Military City, U.S.A. continues to grow, I salute the partnership between SAWS, the City of San Antonio, and JBSA, that addresses the need to sustain our community for future generations of San Antonians.” “Congressman Cuellar continues to step up for our community to find ways to solve difficult issues for San Antonio,” said Robert R. Puente, SAWS President/CEO. “SAWS commitment to Military City USA, and to our customers will be strengthened through Rep. Cuellar’s leadership.”
05.23.2018	Washington, D.C. — Today, the Republican Chairman had our Ways & Means Tax Subcommittee hold a public relations hearing on the effect of the tax law on small businesses. But the best time to devote some attention to the impact of the tax code on small businesses would have been before this new tax law was approved, not after, when it’s too late to have any impact. Today’s hearing attempted to put the best face on legislation that was poorly written and ill conceived—legislation that was designed to provide a windfall to Wall Street Banks and other multinationals and for which small business was an afterthought. For small business owners, the Republican tax law was “bait and switch.” After dressing up the pass-through provisions as a benefit for Mom and Pop small businesses, we have learned that that almost half of the overall tax benefits associated with it go to those making more than a million dollars a year. Within a few years, two-thirds of pass-through small businesses will be left with only four percent of this benefit, while more than half of it will go making to those making at least a million each year. If the length of this hearing was proportionate to the share of the benefit small businesses received in this new tax law, we would need to have concluded before the first witness even testified. Apparently to the Majority, “small business” seems to mean real estate moguls like the Trump family. While continuing to hide his tax returns, Trump has over 500 pass-through entities that may benefit from his signing this travesty into law. When the final tax bill emerged from behind closed doors, tucked into the conference report was an additional tax break—not in any prior version—tailor made for real-estate moguls looking to benefit from the new break. The provision offered a special tax cut to LLCs that have few employees and large amounts of depreciable property assets, namely buildings: rent generating apartment and office buildings. Small businesses deserve a level playing field. Look who they choose as winners and losers. Since the recession, small businesses have created two out of every three private sector jobs. Instead, the Republican tax bill put large multinational corporations before Main Street businesses. If you’re a multinational with armies of tax lawyers and operations around the globe, you get new tax incentives to create jobs overseas, and to use accounting tricks to shift profits to island tax havens. If you’re a small business making investments and employing workers here in America, you pay full freight. It’s just not fair when Pfizer—with its 157 subsidiaries in tax havens—pays a much lower tax rate to fund our national security, infrastructure, and education than the corner pharmacy. We have recently learned how one multinational corporation plans to use its windfall. Since September of 2017, when Speaker Ryan visited a Harley-Davidson plant in Wisconsin to tout the gold at the end of the corporate tax break rainbow, what has the company done with its windfall? It shuttered a plant, leading to 350 layoffs, and it showered its wealthy shareholders with $700 million worth of stock buybacks. The company plans to also open a new factory in Thailand, and thanks to the GOP tax scam, it may get a tax break for doing so. Ultimately, small businesses are among those who will foot the bill. Those who will pay the price are the small goods and services retailers, who are usually too busy to spend much time in Washington. The small construction companies that do not have offshore accounts. The plumber that cannot hire a high-priced lawyer. Or the tech startup that will have a harder time getting access to capital. When I talk to small business owners, one of the biggest challenges they raise is having access to capital. The trillions in additional debt will not make things easier. Interest rates will rise as we borrow more and more from the Chinese and the Saudis, crowding out private investment, and constraining access to capital. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
05.23.2018	Austin - In response to the most recent school shooting in Santa Fe which left 10 dead and an additional 13 wounded, Gov. Gregg Abbott on Tuesday hosted the first of three roundtable events to evaluate solutions to gun violence in Texas. Administrators and school officials from across the Lone Star State gathered at the Texas State Capitol to discuss topics that address safety and security at Texas schools on Tuesday at 1:30 p.m. Tuesday’s meeting included school superintendents, law enforcement, and lawmakers, and focused on school and community safety. The governor told each of them to participate, bring ideas to the table, and said he had one goal in mind: to gain as much information as possible from each person in the room. Governor Abbott told media they talked about ideas such as more mental health counselors at schools, rewards for students who share information, and the importance of putting officers on school property. Round Rock Police Chief Allen Banks spoke to KVUE immediately after the meeting. “It was exciting to be around a table of people that are actually willing to sit, and try to get this resolved. Enough of the talk, it’s about actions right now,” said Banks. Banks is in talks with Round Rock ISD about starting their own school district police department. “When I have a city that’s growing and expanding the way it is, and I have 12 SROs -- two of which are sergeants that are taking care of nearly 55,000 students. I’ve got three different law enforcement entities within that 55,000 students and 55 schools. It’s important that we have one school system law enforcement under that district,” said Banks. Banks said an important part of keeping students safe in schools is identifying the threat. “We’ve got to identify the students that are going to be the threat to our school and to our other students. I have a vested interest. I have a kid that’s in Round Rock ISD right now, and the last thing I want is a phone call saying that my kid was shot and killed by somebody that we knew was going to be a threat and we didn’t take any actions on it,” said Banks. Banks talked about preparing for not just active shooters, but active killers saying it’s focus on more weapons than firearms. The governor also mentioned the Hays County Sheriff’s Office and trying to implement some of their school safety plans statewide. Lieutenant Jeri Skrocki with the Hays County Sheriff Office attended the meeting Tuesday. “I am so incredibly pleased at what I had the opportunity to be a part of, to listen to the governor and everyone that was assembled in that room, with the absolute commitment of making our children safe,” said Skrocki. Skrocki told KVUE she will now meet with the school safety center and share their plans. Skrocki said officials show students, teachers and faculty members a safety video. She said they work to prepare everyone for different scenarios and go through a mock 9-1-1 call. But Skrocki said the important part is talking to students, parents and the community about what to do. “That’s the key to this: communicating not only at the law enforcement level, but also with all of our districts, and including our children, and preparing them for best case scenario. And of course what to do if something horrendous happens, and quite frankly looping in their parents, and making them part of the message as well,” said Skrocki. Skrocki feels it’s time to have tough conversations. "Let our kids know you need to have this dialogue with your parents at home. We know statistically that kids that self-evacuate don’t get injured, and so those are the kinds of things that it's very hard for people to think about their kids running out of a school. But at the same time, for them to recognize the fact that we typically don't see children that are fleeing from a school getting hurt, and so those conversations, parents have to have, they have to spend the time talking to their kids and learning what that means," said Skrocki. Some have urged Abbott to call a special session on this issue. When asked that question Tuesday, the governor said that's a “policy question,” and right now they're still looking for solutions. Abbott said in a press release that last Friday's massacre was “one of the most heinous attacks that we've ever seen in the history of Texas schools.” Although Abbott asked the country for support, for both the families impacted and first responders, his calls for action supersede prayers. “We need to do more than just pray,” Abbott said. “It's time in Texas we take action to step up and make sure this tragedy is never repeated.” Safety options such as providing fewer entrances to school buildings or having children arrive at earlier times were proposed by Patrick on ABC's "This Week." He stated that preventative measures must be taken in order to protect students, a movement that he said will take not only take work and money but creativity. “We have to look at ourselves,” said Patrick. “Can there be gun regulation, gun control? I believe that starts at home. Every person who owns a gun must be accountable for their guns at home.” Straus (R-San Antonio) also extended his condolences in a Facebook statement following the tragedy at Santa Fe High School, stating that talking about school safety is not enough. "The events today at Santa Fe High School represent the worst nightmare of every parent and educator, and it is my hope that the safety of our school campuses will be a top priority when the Texas Legislature convenes in 2019,” wrote Straus. “Elected leaders should take significant, concrete action to prevent school shootings. Just talking about school safety is not enough.” U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) issued the following statement about gun violence, the exclusion of the leadership of state teacher organizations and of two prominent gun safety groups from development of a state plan to address it: “Seeing the horror and grief in Santa Fe, I thought: This could have been my granddaughter’s school. It could have been the school of a member of your family. And then, before Friday even ended, there was another shooting at a Georgia school. Gun violence is increasingly the way that some disturbed people project their anger, their hate, or their fear. We’ve had enough moments of silence. We need some moments of action to prevent more and more families from suffering like this. While there is no legislative panacea, this NRA-beholden Congress refuses to even approve a Commission to study gun violence. I agree that we should strengthen school security, though we’ve done that pretty well in our area already, and that we need to improve access to mental health services—the very kind that Republicans have opposed. But that is just not enough. Personally, I grew up in Texas with guns. I recall one November morning, when my father won a Winchester 30/30 for bringing in the first deer in the county. We were mighty proud. But you just don’t need a military-style assault rifle for that. And gunowners have nothing to fear from a quick, universal background check. We need officials with the courage to stand up to the gun lobby and stand up for our schoolchildren—not to endlessly praise the NRA, as Governor Abbott, Governor Dan Patrick, and our Senators did up in Dallas just this very month. An Abbott roundtable, like the one President Trump conducted, or appointing just another committee—that’s just not enough.” The next roundtables will be held on Wednesday and Thursday at the capitol.
05.22.2018	In a closed door meeting, Gov. Greg Abbott sat down with fellow lawmakers and other experts Tuesday afternoon for the first day of scheduled roundtable discussions on school safety and gun violence following a massacre at Santa Fe High School last week. Abbott, a Republican, said the discussions are designed to develop strategies that will prevent further shootings. “We have one single goal over the next few hours that we will be here, and that is to gain as much information as possible out of each person in this room,” he said surrounded by Texas officials in his public reception room at the Capitol. Attendees of Tuesday’s discussion, which began around 1:30 p.m., included leaders from the Texas House and Senate and the heads of the Texas Education Agency and the Texas Department of Public Safety. There were also local law enforcement and school officials, including the district attorney who will lead the prosecution against 17-year-old Dimitrios Pagourtzis, the accused shooter in Friday’s killings. The discussions were expected to include topics like arming teachers — a practice many Texas schools have already adopted — and mental health, according to a news release from the governor’s office Monday. Since the shooting, Abbott has mentioned some relatively uncontroversial measures, like speeding up background checks and enacting policies to keep guns away from dangerous people. Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick, who also attended the roundtable discussions, raised some eyebrows when he mentioned shortly after the shooting Friday that a possible solution could be to remodel Texas schools to limit the number of entrances and exits. One of the invited attendees Tuesday was an architect who was expected to “lend expertise on school design.” Wednesday's discussion will focus on gun regulations, mental health solutions and underlying causes of gun violence, Abbott said just before the meeting. It will include advocates both for and against further gun restrictions, mental health experts and even social media experts, he said. Thursday will be a day for the victims of mass shootings in Texas, including the school shooting in Santa Fe that killed 10 and one at a church in Sutherland Springs last fall that killed 26. The exact list of attendees for those days have not yet been released. Democrats have largely welcomed a discussion on gun violence but criticized the effectiveness of any changes currently proposed by Republican leadership. State Rep. Chris Turner of Grand Prairie, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, said Friday that the state should also pass universal background checks and require the reporting of stolen guns. And in a news release Tuesday morning, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, said excluding several groups who want stricter gun regulation, including Moms Demand Action and March for Our Lives, will limit the potential for meaningful action. Texas Gun Sense, which advocates for further gun restrictions, is expected to attend Abbott’s discussion Wednesday.
05.22.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 22, 2018 Contact: Kate Stotesbery, 202-225-4865 Stand with Our Children, not Gun Lobby: Bold Action Needed to Confront Gun Violence Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), an active member of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, issued a statement about the epidemic of gun violence and the exclusion of the leadership of state teacher organizations and of two prominent gun safety groups from development of a state plan to address it. You can view Rep. Doggett’s video statement here and read his statement below. Please reach out if you would like the video file in a different format. “Seeing the horror and grief in Santa Fe, I thought: This could have been my granddaughter’s school. It could have been the school of a member of your family. And then, before Friday even ended, there was another shooting at a Georgia school. Gun violence is increasingly the way that some disturbed people project their anger, their hate, or their fear. We’ve had enough moments of silence. We need some moments of action to prevent more and more families from suffering like this. While there is no legislative panacea, this NRA-beholden Congress refuses to even approve a Commission to study gun violence. I agree that we should strengthen school security, though we’ve done that pretty well in our area already, and that we need to improve access to mental health services—the very kind that Republicans have opposed. But that is just not enough. Personally, I grew up in Texas with guns. I recall one November morning, when my father won a Winchester 30/30 for bringing in the first deer in the county. We were mighty proud. But you just don’t need a military-style assault rifle for that. And gunowners have nothing to fear from a quick, universal background check. We need officials with the courage to stand up to the gun lobby and stand up for our schoolchildren—not to endlessly praise the NRA, as Governor Abbott, Governor Dan Patrick, and our Senators did up in Dallas just this very month. An Abbott roundtable, like the one President Trump conducted, or appointing just another committee—that’s just not enough.” Rep. Doggett added, “Excluding representatives of Moms Demand Action, March for our Lives, and the leadership of state teacher organizations from the roundtable indicates that any state plan will not be well rounded and that, despite the goodwill of some who are participating, the potential for meaningful action is minimal. We need truly bold action to prevent more deaths by confronting gun violence. It’s time to stand with our children, not the gun lobby.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
05.21.2018	
05.18.2018	There will never be enough horrifying shootings to force this NRA-controlled Congress to enact reasonable gun safety measures. The only way to ensure greater protection for our children is to replace this Congress with those committed to act. Enough moments of silence, we need moments of action to prevent other families from suffering the pain being suffered in Santa Fe.
05.18.2018	Washington, D.C.—Today, the Affordable Prescription Drug Task Force, led by U.S. Representative Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) and Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT), joined Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-MD) to call on the Trump Administration to step in to lower the cost of naloxone drugs. The Task Force urged the Administration to grant a request submitted by the Baltimore City Health Department and Public Citizen to use existing federal authority to address the soaring cost of naloxone drugs during the opioid crisis. With approximately 115 Americans dying per day from an opioid overdose, there is a true national emergency. And yet the price for naloxone, lifesaving overdose reversal drugs, has risen dramatically throughout the epidemic. In one of the most egregious price spikes, Kaleo Pharmaceuticals increased the price of its auto-injector Evzio by nearly 700%. With the increased demand for these drugs to equip police, emergency medical providers, school, families, and friends, the burden on public programs and state and city budgets has become overwhelming. Reps. Doggett, Cummings, and Welch were joined by Reps. Ro Khanna, Mark Pocan, Pramila Jayapal, Raul Grijalva, Keith Ellison, Rosa DeLauro, Jamie Raskin, Jan Schakowsky, Chellie Pingree, Judy Chu, Marcy Kaptur, and Michelle Lujan Grisham. “Government-approved monopolies will continue to charge monopoly prices and exploit the opioid crisis until this Administration steps in to restrain them,” said Congressman Doggett. “Law enforcement and public health budgets are buckling under ballooning prices while overdose deaths continue to rise. The Trump Administration has the authority and responsibility to step in and lower the price of these lifesaving drugs.” Congressman Cummings said, “The President’s own Opioid Commission recommended that the Trump Administration negotiate directly with drug companies to lower these prices, but President Trump has ignored this recommendation for the better part of a year while communities like Baltimore are forced to ration their supplies. “As the opioid crisis ravages communities in Vermont and across the country, the price of Naloxone is skyrocketing. It’s time for the government to stand up to price gouging by the pharmaceutical industry, said Congressman Welch. “I hope that the administration uses its authority to step in and lower the price of this lifesaving drug and end the stickup by Big Pharma that is holding hostage the suffering of American families.” To read the letter, click here. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
05.17.2018	Congressional Art Competition Winner ​​Maya Diaz, a junior at Brackenridge HS, placed first in Congressional District 35 in the United States Congressional Institutes nationwide Congressional Art Competition. Each spring, the Institute sponsors a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district. District 35's Lloyd Doggett presented Diaz the honor on May 14, 2018, at the school library. Diaz's artwork will be on display in Washington, D.C. at the U.S. Capitol for a year. Sarah Estrada, a junior at Jefferson HS, placed third in Congressional District 20 and recieved recognition from Joaquin Castro earlier this month.
05.17.2018	Washington, D.C.— Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX35) and Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (D-ME1) introduced the Reducing Drug Waste Act, a bicameral bill to reduce single use drug waste and save taxpayer money. An identical version of the Reducing Drug Waste Act, a bipartisan bill, was introduced in the Senate by Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and Chuck Grassley (R-IA). The United States spends millions of dollars each year on prescription drugs that go to waste due to the size of single-use vials or other drug delivery systems. A 2016 study found that Medicare and private insurers waste billions each year on cancer drugs due to vial sizes that are too large – the drugs are ultimately discarded. Recently, pharmaceutical companies have been charged with federal crimes for repackaging these leftover drugs and illegally reselling them, risking cancer patients’ health and wellbeing. “Wasted medications waste taxpayer money and burden consumers,” said Congressman Doggett. “While Americans are forced to spend an excessive amount on prescriptions, pharmaceutical companies are producing oversized drug vials. This legislation will require federal agencies to investigate this inefficient use of resources and develop an action plan to reduce drug waste and spending.” “Every day, millions of Americans have to make a choice between their prescriptions and other basic needs,” said Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (D-Maine). "It’s unconscionable to me that, given how many people are struggling with high drug prices, we’re still wasting so much product through inefficient packaging. Our common sense bill would push FDA and CMS to study this issue and come up with an action plan to cut down on waste.” The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Office of the Inspector General (OIG) has found that using different vial sizes in addition to those currently approved could significantly reduce the amount of drug waste. OIG analyzed 20 single-use vial drugs and found Medicare Part B program wasted $195 million on discarded drugs. The Reducing Drug Waste Act would require the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), in coordination with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), to develop a Joint Action Plan to reduce drug waste and better manage costs with respect to drug vial sizes and other drug delivery systems. The bill would require the FDA and CMS: Consult with healthcare providers and patient advocates (including relevant Federal advisory committees). Utilize data from Medicare claims on how much of a single‐use drug was not administered. Examine single‐use vial sizes in other countries. Analyze the drug approval process for alternative vial size safety and efficacy approaches. Submit a report to Congress within one year that includes the Joint Action Plan and recommendations for any legislative action needed to reduce drug waste and better manage costs with respect to drug vial sizes and other drug delivery systems. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
05.15.2018	Two democratic San Antonio Congressmen — Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, and Joaquin Castro, D-San Antonio — are speaking out against the proposed Farm Bill and cuts to the supplemental nutrition assistance program, also known as SNAP. The bill would introduce stricter work requirements and reduce the amount of money provided to recipients. Castro and Doggett appeared at the San Antonio Food Bank along with Food Bank CEO Eric Cooper Monday to detail how the bill would be detrimental to needy recipients of SNAP. Democratic critics say the current version of the Farm Bill could potentially cut SNAP benefits by $20 billion over 10 years — an estimate disputed by Republicans on the House Agriculture Committee. A House vote on the farm bill could come this week. SNAP benefits go by many names, including food stamps, Electronic Benefits Transfer, or here in Texas, the Lone Star Card. In Bexar County, there are approximately 300,000 people receiving benefits. Statewide, it's about 3.7 million people. The Texas Department of Health and Human services said it distributed $421 million in SNAP benefits to Texans this past April. Each SNAP household in Texas received an average $264 per month. Doggett said the bill included major pushes from House Speaker Paul Ryan as Ryan finishes his final year in Congress. “He’s always wanted to have cutbacks in this area and other public assistance programs so there’s a lot on the line for him here,” he said. The changes in the farm bill include requiring “work capable adults” ages 18-59 to work at least 20 hours per week or participate in an equal amount of job training to qualify for SNAP benefits. “America needs a Farm Bill to lay the framework for the agriculture producers and American consumers,” said Congressman Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio, in a statement via email. “The bill takes meaningful steps to encourage able-bodied and work age individuals to move from the SNAP program into the workforce while ensuring that the neediest still receive SNAP benefits as the program was designed.” Castro said there’s misconception that SNAP recipients are not in the labor force. He said many are working, and cutting benefits will make it harder for those working families to put food on the table. “These are often times working people who work in jobs where the wages are not high enough to support themselves and their family members,” Castro said. If the cuts go through and benefits are reduced for some individuals, Cooper said that could put a bigger strain on organizations like the Food Bank, which provides additional food to the recipients. “I think ultimately the farm bill cuts are going to be bad for the poor,” he said.
05.14.2018	Pictured Left to Right: Brackenridge High School Principal Yesenia Cordova, Art Teacher Theresa Ybanez, 2018 Congressional Art Competition Winner Maya Diaz, and U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett San Antonio, Texas – Today, local arts leaders, Brackenridge Principal Yesenia Cordova and art teacher Theresa Ybanez, joined a celebration for Maya Diaz, a junior at Brackenridge High School in San Antonio, who was the winner of U.S. Representative Lloyd Doggett’s (D-San Antonio) annual Congressional High School Art Competition. Maya’s original piece, Picture Perfect, featuring the reflection of light against objects that remind her of her parents, will hang in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. for a full year, providing her with national exposure as she represents San Antonio. Maya’s passion for art extends past the classroom; she currently serves as the President of Brackenridge’s Art Club and will be applying to colleges to pursue art. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDogget
05.14.2018	Proposed cuts to the Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program (SNAP) would leave an estimated 10,000 Bexar County residents without food assistance, according to estimates from U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett's office. The farm bill championed by the Trump administration and GOP lawmakers would slash $20 billion from SNAP over the next 10 years. Along with tougher work requirements, it would rein in provisions that let the state offer SNAP — formerly food stamps — to Texans earning slightly above the federal poverty line. “These cruel cuts hurt those most in need," said Doggett, a Democrat who will be in San Antonio Monday to discuss the bill. "I have seen personally the invaluable work of the San Antonio Food Bank and the Presa Community Center in battling food insecurity for so many in our community.” Texas already requires SNAP recipients to enroll in a work and training program. However, the bill's "one strike and you're out" rule could strip people of benefits for a full year for being underemployed for more than a month. The farm bill recently passed the House Agriculture Committee on a party-line vote. Democrats maintain it was written behind closed doors without their input. More than 305,000 Bexar County residents receive SNAP, which includes 158,204 children and 19,294 seniors, according to state records.
05.14.2018	San Antonio, Texas – Today, Monday, May 14, U.S. Representative Lloyd Doggett (D-San Antonio) and U.S. Representative Joaquin Castro (D-San Antonio) will stand alongside the San Antonio Food Bank to sound the alarm on the huge cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) in the proposed 2018 Farm Bill that the House is expected to vote on this coming week. Rep. Doggett will detail the devastating effects these proposed cuts would have in our community if passed, including the ways this bill would slash vital assistance lifelines to many food insecure families and individuals in Southwest Texas. He will shine light on the important ways that the SNAP program currently ensures that so many San Antonio children, people with disabilities, veterans, and seniors do not go hungry. Press are encouraged to attend. WHO: U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-San Antonio) U.S. Rep. Joaquin Castro (D-San Antonio) Eric Cooper, President and CEO San Antonio Food Bank WHEN: Monday, May 14, 2018 at 1:30 PM WHERE: San Antonio Food Bank 5200 Enrique M. Barrera Pkwy, San Antonio, TX 78227 ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
05.10.2018	Democrats say President Trump's decision to scrap the Iran nuclear deal sets a high bar for ensuring denuclearization — a standard they plan to hold him to ahead of his planned talks with North Korea's Kim Jong Un next month. “By declaring that the extensive enforcement provisions against Iran are grossly deficient, in what he described as ‘the worst deal ever,’ Trump sets the standard by which he himself should be judged in Korea," Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas). “We cannot settle for some broad statement of principles,” he continued. “We need to know that he will secure a more stringent inspection regime in Korea — even more intrusive than that which he has unjustifiably condemned in Iran." Trump long decried the deal negotiated under his predecessor between Iran, the U.S. and five other global powers — including Russia and China — before announcing the U.S. withdrawal this week. The agreement, finalized in 2015 after roughly two years of intense negotiations, aimed to block Iran from building nuclear weapons in exchange for the removal of long-standing international oil and financial sanctions. Widely viewed as the most prominent foreign policy achievement during President Obama's tenure, the accord demanded sharp reductions in Iran's reserves of enriched uranium, backed up by tougher international inspections. In abandoning the accord on Tuesday, Trump argued that the deal was a gift to Tehran that offered no guarantees the country would make good on its vows to curb its nuclear weapons program. “This was a horrible, one-sided deal that should have never, ever been made,” Trump said at the White House. John Bolton, Trump’s newly placed national security adviser, also painted the deal as an abject failure — one that’s allowed Tehran to fund violence across the Middle East while “the Iranian people have suffered at home” from both a stagnant economy “and a spiraling environmental crisis.” “Its very premise has been betrayed by its own abysmal track record over the past two years,” Bolton, a defense hawk who helped champion the Iraq War under former President George W. Bush, wrote Wednesday in an op-ed in The Washington Post. Trump's decision to reimpose sanctions on Iran, which was announced ahead of a Saturday deadline, comes as he presses toward a historic meeting with Kim next month following an easing of tensions between the U.S. and North Korea in recent weeks. Central to those talks, which are scheduled for June 12 in Singapore, will be the future of North Korea’s nuclear weapons program. The program has long been considered a threat to the region and particularly to South Korea, where tens of thousands of U.S. troops are stationed. "We will both try to make it a very special moment for World Peace!" Trump tweeted Thursday. But Democrats say that by exiting the Iran deal this week, Trump has essentially set a new threshold for himself when it comes to handling North Korea's own nuclear program, which has been a point of growing concern for years. “If you find an agreement that’s working and meeting all of its metrics inadequate because your predecessor signed it,” said Rep. Gerry Connolly(D-Va.), “then here’s your standard — your own standard — for North Korea: Absolute denuclearization; absolutely verifiable. “Anything less than that is a failure, Mr. Trump.” In hammering Trump’s decision to leave the Iran accord, Democrats are warning of both the threat to global security and the credibility of the U.S. when it comes to negotiating future peace pacts. “How will the world, how will our allies or our adversaries in the future believe that a president, a future president, can commit this country to a treaty or other obligation if it won't outlast the next election?” Rep. Adam Schiff (Calif.), senior Democratic on the House Intelligence Committee, said Thursday. “That is, I think, the far-reaching and damaging consequence also of this action.” While most Republicans have continued to oppose the Iran deal, some prominent GOP voices are warning that the president’s decision will accelerate Tehran’s ability to produce nuclear weapons. Rep. Ed Royce (R-Calif.), chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said this week that while Obama’s Iran deal had its flaws, the best way to fix the shortcomings is to remain a part of the multinational pact. “That toothpaste isn’t going back into the tube,” Royce said on Tuesday, referring to cash payments made to Tehran as part of the deal. “It also won’t help galvanize our allies into addressing Iran’s dangerous activities that threaten us all. I fear a withdrawal would actually set back these efforts. And Congress has heard nothing about alternatives.” House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) also emphasized the fact that Trump, while promising new sanctions, proposed no replacement to Obama’s agreement. “If there is no Plan B, how do we make sure that the world knows that we are committed to nuclear nonproliferation?” she said.
05.10.2018	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), senior Member on the House Ways & Means Committee and co-Chair of the Affordable Prescription Drug Task Force, spoke at a press conference with House Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Senate Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY), and other Members of the Task Force on the need to rein in the skyrocketing cost of prescription drugs. You can watch Rep. Doggett’s remarks here and read the full remarks below. Rep. Doggett said: “Unfortunately, there is just no wonder drug that will cure the problem of prescription price gouging. And when you have the price of drugs going up ten times the rate of inflation, and knowing that an unaffordable drug is 100% ineffective, there are so many Americans that are finding there is no drug answer for them. “Almost three years ago, I formed the Affordable Prescription Drug Task Force to support policies for continued drug innovation, but to restrain those who rely on a government-approved monopoly to charge monopoly prices—as much as the sick and dying will pay. “We have watched President Trump so often say the right thing about this problem, but take none of the right actions, and he has entrusted his agenda to the very people who only months before were spiking the drug prices. We need a better deal, a better deal that relies on negotiating reasonable prices and on transparency for excessive increases." With drug prices soaring at a rate 10 times that of inflation and pharmaceutical corporations price gouging patients, there is a true drug pricing crisis in the United States. Even in the face of the opioid epidemic, a devastating national public health emergency, the price of naloxone, a lifesaving overdose reversal drug, has been spiked by almost 600%. The Task Force also released a list of priorities that any meaningful Administration proposal must include: Negotiate prescription drug prices under Medicare to harness the purchasing power of the federal government, as the President has previously proposed; Shed light on the pharmaceutical corporation’s drug pricing system through genuine transparency to reveal the true cost of drug production, as the President has previously proposed; End patent system abuse by eliminating tactics that thwart competition like pay-for-delay deals, patent evergreening, and Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (REMS) abuse; Allow safe importation of prescription drugs from other countries, as the President has previously proposed; and Ensure access to affordable drugs by crafting fair trade agreements. During the initial sixteen months of his Administration, the President has spoken about this serious problem but has taken no real action to address it. Rep. Lloyd Doggett’s Full Remarks As Delivered May 10, 2018 Unfortunately, there is just no wonder drug that will cure the problem of prescription price gouging. And when you have the price of drugs going up ten times the rate of inflation, and knowing that an unaffordable drug is 100% ineffective, there are so many Americans that are finding there is no drug answer for them. Almost three years ago, I formed the Affordable Prescription Drug Task Force to support policies for continued drug innovation, but to restrain those who rely on a government-approved monopoly to charge monopoly prices—as much as the sick and dying will pay. We have watched President Trump so often say the right thing about this problem, but take none of the right actions, and he has entrusted his agenda to the very people who only months before were spiking the drug prices. We need a better deal, a better deal that relies on negotiating reasonable prices and on transparency for excessive increases. President Trump promised that drug prices would “fall very substantially.” He said “it’s going to be beautiful.” That’s what my friend Elaine, in San Antonio, who’s suffering from glaucoma, needs. She’s paying $815 a month to try to preserve her eyesight. She says, “drug costs are making it so difficult for me to finish my senior years with dignity.” She needs deeds, not tweets. Her doctor never tells her to “Take two tweets and call me in the morning.” Tomorrow, when President Trump belatedly delivers his big Pharma speech, it appears to be for Pharma, not for consumers like Elaine. Once again, he is cozying up with Big Pharma by turning to his favorite tactic no matter what subject—blame foreigners—foreigners are responsible for all the problems. They are getting a better deal for their consumers on drug prices than President Trump is capable of getting for American consumers. This is an illusion, raising prices for consumers abroad will not mean lower prices for people here in America. Whatever happened to President Trumps complaint about drugs and Medicare? “They don’t bid them out. They say like $300 billion could be saved if we bid them out. We don’t do it. Why? Because of the drug companies.” So, the question on his speech tomorrow is: Will he stand up to those drug companies, fulfil his promise, or yield to all the influence peddlers that are here saying once again continue doing nothing for American consumers? ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
05.10.2018	Washington, DC – Today House and Senate Democrats outlined a recently released report that exposed the alarming trend of rising prescription drug prices under the Trump administration and called on President Trump to support Democrats’ “Better Deal” proposals to lower prescription drug prices. Under the Trump Administration, the 20 most prescribed drugs under Medicare Part D have seen an average annual 12 percent price hike, while 12 of those drugs saw price hikes of over 50 percent, and the remaining six drugs saw price hikes of 100 percent. Despite harsh campaign rhetoric denouncing the pharmaceutical industry, President Trump has done nothing but line the pockets of pharmaceutical company executives through his tax giveaway to the wealthiest Americans and largest corporations while drug prices continued to climb. Five of the largest pharmaceutical companies have invested their savings from the tax windfall on $45 billion dollars in new stock buyback programs to benefit shareholders instead of working to make prescription drugs more affordable for the public. The report also highlights how Trump’s failure to act on rising prescription drug prices has left millions of Americans struggling to afford essential medication, endangering both the health and financial well-being of American families. Specifically, the Democrats’ Better Deal proposal to lower prescription drug prices would create a new “price gouging” enforcer to stop outrageous behavior in its tracks, allow Medicare Part D to negotiate drug prices, and require drug manufacturers to publicly release hard data and information justifying any significant price increase. “America’s prescription drug market is broken, forcing hard-working families to pay more and more for life-saving medication as their cost of living surges and their incomes stay stagnant,” said Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA). “While Republicans vote to raise families’ health costs, sabotage their affordable, quality health care and give massive tax breaks to big pharma, Democrats are offering A Better Deal on Prescription Drug Prices. We have a bold, ambitious plan to lower the soaring cost of prescription drugs, and fight for the children, seniors and working families who are being devastated by this crisis.” “Outrageous prescription drug prices are just another example of how President Trump is failing to deliver on his promises to the American people.” said Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY). “Time and time again, the Trump administration has prioritized lining the pockets of the biggest corporations and special interests over the needs of average consumers and middle-class families. Americans deserve a better deal when it comes to lowering the cost of prescription drugs, and President Trump should support our plan that would actually lower prescription drug costs for working families and seniors around the country.” “Last year, I joined Rep. Peter Welch at the White House to meet with President Trump about our bill to finally allow the government to negotiate with drug companies for lower drug prices,” Congressman Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) said. “Unfortunately, President Trump ignored us and our proposal has been collecting dust for more than a year. The President has a long history of saying one thing and doing the opposite, but I’ll be the first to commend him if he finally endorses this proposal or offers one that is better. The American people are tired of waiting, and now is the time to take real, comprehensive action on this issue so all Americans can afford the medications they desperately need.” “The president has said for over a year and a half that drug companies are ‘getting away with murder,’ but all he’s done about it is give them a ‘get out of jail free’ card,” U.S. Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR) said. “Trump promised health care for everybody at a lower cost, now families are stuck with high premiums and junk plans. There’s no reason to believe real relief will be coming this time from Trump and his Republican allies in Congress.” “There is no wonder drug to stop prescription price gouging,” said Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX). “Almost 3 years ago, I formed an Affordable Prescription Drug Task Force to support continued innovation, while restraining drug makers with government-approved monopolies from charging monopoly prices—whatever the sick or dying will pay for relief. We’ve watched President Trump say many of the right things about spiraling costs, but take none of the right actions, while entrusting his agenda to the very people previously responsible for spiking prices. We need a better deal by negotiating reasonable prices and insisting on transparency for excessive increases.” “During the campaign, candidate Trump told us that the prescription drug companies were ‘getting away with murder’ and he was right. But as President, Trump has not done a single thing to lower the price of prescription drugs,” U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT) said. “I say to President Trump: Talk is cheap. If you are serious about lowering drug prices, allow Medicare to negotiate prescription drug prices and stop providing tax breaks to big drug companies that are ripping off the American people.” “The skyrocketing costs of prescription drugs are forcing millions of American families to make impossible choices every day,” Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) said. “No one in this country should have to decide between putting food on the table and paying for the life-saving medications their children need. But pharmaceutical corporations will keep raising their prices for one simple reason: because they can! We need to face this crisis head-on. Lukewarm, PhRMA-friendly approaches just won’t work. We need President Trump to do much more than just ‘check the box’ of appearing to take action on prescription drug prices. Failing to take truly meaningful action could mean the difference between life and death.” “It’s long past time to take action to bring down skyrocketing prescription drug prices. We have put solutions on the table—most of which have bipartisan support—that we could pass immediately to give the American people a better deal. We must make prescription drugs more affordable for all Americans by lifting the ban on Medicare negotiating prices directly with drug companies on behalf of the 41 million seniors in the Part D program and stopping anticompetitive tactics—like brand-name companies denying generic companies access to samples or using ‘pay-for-delay’ deals to keep their generic competitors out of the market. Americans are waiting, there is no time to waste” said U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN). “Drug companies make pain-relieving and life-extending drugs, but their rip-off pricing is killing us,” said Congressman Peter Welch (D-VT). “Too often the price is so prohibitively high as to make the drug unaffordable. Congress must provide the authority to intervene to stop unjustified price spikes.” ###
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON – Texas lawmakers split sharply Tuesday on President Trump's plan to claw back more than $15 billion in congressionally-approved spending, nearly half of which would come from a children's health program that provides coverage for 400,000 kids and pregnant women in the state. The Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), which Congress recently extended for six years, has become a flashpoint in an effort by the administration to calm conservative budget hawks who were angered by a $1.3 trillion spending bill that Trump signed in March. Texas received more than $1.2 billion in federal funding for the CHIP program in the 2016 budget year, according to the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Commission, a non-partisan legislative branch agency that provides policy and data analysis for the government. Administration officials said the CHIP funds in Trump's proposed budget "rescission" represent unspent moneys from the previous year and would not affect current benefits. But many Democrats sounded a skeptical note. "These proposed rescissions reflect the same Republican indifference as last year when their repeated delays in renewing CHIP resulted in both damaging uncertainties for our local health providers and many alarmed families," said U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a Democrat from Austin. "Republicans are already breaking their word on our agreement reached a mere two months ago. They are wrongfully demanding that we eliminate federal resources that would otherwise go to meet children's needs." Some also cast it as a political gesture. "There's no logical reason for the Trump administration to cut spending from the Children's Health Insurance Program when Congress passed a bipartisan CHIP package in January to authorize the program for six more years and save the government hundreds of billions of dollars," said Houston Democrat Gene Green. "This gesture is solely symbolic to save face with Republican voters." Republicans, meanwhile, welcomed the savings. "There is no denying it, Washington has a spending problem," said U.S. Rep. Kevin Brady of The Woodlands, in a statement on Twitter. "I support President @realDonaldTrump's decision to cut wasteful government programs and roll back over $15 billion in spending." Budget analysts say the savings, if passed by Congress, would reduce government spending by less than 0.5 percent. But the rescission debate has been fueled by friction over the nation's growing budget deficits, which Democrats blame on the $1.5 trillion Republican tax cut in December. Brady and other Republicans pushed back Tuesday, cheered by a Congressional Budget Office report showing that the federal government took in a record tax haul in April, producing a monthly surplus of $218 billion. April, a month when many taxpayers settle up with the IRS, is generally a strong month for government revenue, though this year's receipts were 13 percent higher than in April 2017. Trump's rescission plan is subject to approval by Congress. Though its prospects are good in the House, they are less certain in the closely-divided Senate.
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON — Texas’ Republican senators endorsed President Donald Trump’s decision Tuesday to pull out of the Iran nuclear agreement, but House Democrats from San Antonio contended the world will be less safe as a result. Sen. John Cornyn, the Senate’s No. 2 Republican, said Trump was right in rejecting a “bad deal” negotiated under President Barack Obama and U.S. allies. “We know Iran has long thumbed its nose at the international community and has potentially violated this one-sided agreement. Any new agreement must prevent Iran from obtaining and employing weapons of mass destruction and be subject to congressional scrutiny,” Cornyn said in a statement. The International Atomic Energy Agency, which is responsible for monitoring Iran’s compliance, recently verified that the nation has met all of its commitments outlined in the multinational deal. Sen. Ted Cruz, who has been unsparing in criticizing the Obama administration’s signature foreign policy achievement, asserted that Trump had acted boldly in assuring that the United States “will not be bound by an agreement that advances the interests of an enemy committed to the destruction of our nation and our allies.” Cruz said in a statement that the deal had given Iran the resources to expand across the Middle East “and created an incentive for the international community to turn a blind eye to Iranian military activities and atrocities.” He added: “There is little doubt that Iran poses an immediate threat to the United States. Iran is the world’s foremost state sponsors of terrorism and has been caught plotting to launch attacks on American soil. They have sought to acquire nuclear weapons. They continue to hold American citizens hostage.” El Paso Democrat Beto O’Rourke, who’s challenging Cruz in the November election, said on Twitter: “Although the Iran deal is far from perfect, it is a critical international effort to ensure Iran doesn't acquire nuclear weapons. The United States of America shouldn't be giving up on diplomacy.” San Antonio Democrat Joaquin Castro, who sits on the House Intelligence Committee, asserted that the administration’s decision makes the world less safe by giving Iran incentives to develop a nuclear weapon as soon as possible. “While the president certified Iran’s compliance twice, withdrawal from the agreement severely damages critical relationships with our allies, isolates America abroad and jeopardizes U.S. credibility as we head towards high-stakes denuclearization negotiations with Pyongyang,” Castro said. Republican Rep. Will Hurd of San Antonio said Wednesday, “Our goals should be to deny the Iranian Government a path to a nuclear weapon and to terminate its support for terrorist groups. The JCPOA has not and would not achieve either. I hope during the wind down period before re-imposition of sanctions that we can work with our Allies to make Iran accountable to international norms, because the only way to achieve our goals is through international cooperation.” The deal reached three years about by the U.S. and its allies does include a permanent ban on nuclear weapons in Iran. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-San Antonio, who worked three years ago to counter House opposition to the Iran deal, cited reports that 96 percent of Iran’s enriched uranium has been removed and two-thirds of its centrifuges dismantled. Doggett said bluntly that pulling out of the agreement is a prelude to war. “The alternative to this successful diplomacy has always been war. With American troops already on the ground in multiple Middle Eastern countries, President Trump is forcing us along a path to violent military confrontation,” he said in a statement.
05.08.2018	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), senior Member on the House Ways & Means Committee, issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s impending withdrawal from the Iran Nuclear Agreement. In 2015, Rep. Doggett, along with Reps. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) and David Price (D-NC), led a successful House whip effort to counter Republican obstruction of Obama Administration nuclear negotiations. You can view Rep. Doggett’s video statement here, and read his statement below. Full statement: “I have no illusions about the Iranian government, but both our military experts and international inspectors verify that Iran is in full compliance. The alternative to this successful diplomacy has always been war. With American troops already on the ground in multiple Middle Eastern countries, President Trump is forcing us along a path to violent military confrontation. “President Trump recklessly imperils our security, the integrity of America’s word, and the prospects for a verifiable North Korean agreement. With 96 percent of its enriched uranium removed, two-thirds of its centrifuges dismantled, and ongoing intrusive, rigorous inspections giving us valuable insight into Iran, and an enforceable commitment continuing to deny Iran nuclear weapons, this agreement has made us much safer. How fortunate we would be to obtain a verifiable accord with North Korea as strong as this Iran agreement that Trump so wrongfully condemns. How ironic that Trump praises the North Korean leader as ‘very honorable,’ while refusing to join with our allies to ensure continued strict enforcement of this hard-won agreement.” You can read more about Rep. Doggett’s 2015 effort here. Additionally, Rep. Doggett, along with more than 180 Members of Congress, including those who both voted for and against the Iran Nuclear Agreement, urged the President to honor the Iran Nuclear Agreement last fall. That letter can be found here. Since his original effort, he has been a leading voice on the need for strict enforcement and to prevent any breach of the agreement. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
05.08.2018	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), senior Member on the House Ways & Means Committee, issued the following statement regarding President Trump’s impending withdrawal from the Iran Nuclear Agreement. In 2015, Rep. Doggett, along with Reps. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) and David Price (D-NC), led a successful House whip effort to counter Republican obstruction of Obama Administration nuclear negotiations. Rep. Doggett said: “With 96 percent of its enriched uranium removed, two-thirds of its centrifuges dismantled, and ongoing intrusive, rigorous inspections giving us valuable insight into Iran, this agreement makes us much safer, and Iran less of a nuclear threat. By ignoring the conclusion of both our military and international inspectors that Iran is in full compliance, President Trump recklessly imperils our security, the integrity of America’s word, and the prospects for a verifiable North Korean agreement. How fortunate we would be to obtain a verifiable accord with North Korea as strong as the Iran Agreement that Trump so wrongfully condemns.” An additional statement and video recording will follow after the President’s speech. Congressman Doggett will also participate in a press call today with other Members who have been actively involved in this issue at 2:30pm CT / 3:30pm ET. Where: Conference line: (605) 472-5494; Access Code: 823-492 When: Tuesday, May 8, 2018 at 2:30pm CT / 3:30pm ET RSVP: Please email Kate.stotesbery@mail.house.gov if you plan to join the call You can read more about Rep. Doggett’s 2015 effort here. Additionally, Rep. Doggett, along with more than 180 Members of Congress, including those who both voted for and against the Iran Nuclear Agreement, urged the President to honor the Iran Nuclear Agreement last fall. That letter can be found here. Since his original effort, he has been a leading voice on the need for strict enforcement and to prevent any breach of the agreement. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
05.07.2018	WASHINGTON — In his State of the Union address in January and again in New Hampshire in March, President Trump made a bold promise: “You’ll be seeing drug prices falling very substantially in the not-too-distant future,” he said, “and it’s going to be beautiful.” Not if the pharmaceutical companies can stop it. Big Pharma is pouring money into a lobbying campaign to thwart any serious efforts to rein in prescription drug prices ahead of a presidential speech this month where Mr. Trump plans to lay out his drug pricing proposals. “There is apprehension across the industry,” said Bruce Artim, who retired recently after 11 years as the director of federal affairs at Eli Lilly and Company. “Pharma folks are nervous.” Drugmakers spent $171.5 million lobbying the federal government last year — more than insurance, electronics, oil and gas or any other industry, according to data compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics, an independent group that tracks money in politics. Spending by the main lobby for the industry, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, surged in the first quarter of this year, to $10 million, up from $8 million in the first quarter of last year and $6 million in the first quarter of 2016, the trade association said in reports filed with Congress. Its spending is on pace to top the annual totals it reported in recent years, $25.4 million in 2017 and $19.6 million in 2016. Drug companies and their trade associations deployed 882 lobbyists last year, more than two-thirds of whom had previously worked for Congress or federal agencies, the center said. And as Mr. Trump moves to flesh out one of his more popular campaign promises, drugmakers may have reason to mobilize. During the presidential campaign, Mr. Trump embraced positions on this issue long held by Democrats — and long opposed by his party and the pharmaceutical industry. He said, for example, that Medicare officials should negotiate prices with drug manufacturers, and that consumers should be allowed to import prescription drugs from Canada and certain other countries where brand-name drug prices are generally lower than in the United States. The American people are very likely to back him. A recent poll by the Kaiser Family Foundation found that 80 percent of Americans believe that drug costs are unreasonably high. “The president’s concerns are born out of this populist impulse that we have to acknowledge: that patients are paying more for their health care, more for their medicine,” said Stephen J. Ubl, the president and chief executive of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America. Efforts to attack the problem, even by the president, face stiff headwinds. The numbers bear out Mr. Trump’s statement that “pharma has a lot of lobbies and a lot of lobbyists and a lot of power.” With its deep pockets and sophisticated lobbying, the drug industry has beaten back many efforts to reduce the payments it receives from Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs. “Big Pharma has made a huge investment in Congress, with extensive lobbying and massive campaign contributions,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas. Still, the industry is not immune. Drugmakers suffered a major setback in February when Congress required them to give deeper discounts to Medicare beneficiaries. The action by Congress, which will cost drugmakers billions of dollars, “scared the bejesus out of them,” said Jayson S. Slotnik, a consultant to drug and medical device companies. They are now worried about the proposals Mr. Trump may push to lower drug prices. Their anxiety is heightened by Mr. Trump’s unpredictability. Drug company lobbyists say they are confident that Mr. Trump’s campaign ideas will not be endorsed by Alex M. Azar II, the secretary of health and human services, who used to work at Lilly, or Dr. Scott Gottlieb, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, who was a frequent consultant to drug companies before he returned to government last year. But the lobbyists worry that Mr. Trump could easily veer off script, either on Twitter or in extemporaneous remarks in the coming weeks. The Trump administration, like the Obama administration, has made clear that it wants to slow the growth of spending on drugs under Part B of Medicare, which covers many cancer drugs and other expensive medicines administered in doctors’ offices. The reimbursement formula used in this part of Medicare creates “perverse incentives for prescribing higher-priced drugs” and discourages drug companies from competing on price, the White House Council of Economic Advisers said in a recent report. Some of the alternatives being considered by the Trump administration, to inject competition into Part B of Medicare, have caused concern among drugmakers. Drugmakers that spent the most on lobbying last year included Amgen ($10.6 million), Pfizer ($10.5 million) and Novartis ($8.6 million). Lobbying is just one way drugmakers and their employees can exert influence. They also make campaign contributions, spend large sums on advertising and donate to patient advocacy groups whose members depend on the drugs they make. Campaign contributions since January 2015 total $31 million, according to the Center for Responsive Politics — compared, for example, with $58 million from the commercial banking industry. Kantar Media, an ad tracking company, says that drug companies spent $6.1 billion on advertising aimed at American consumers last year, more than twice as much as the nation’s largest corporate advertiser, Procter & Gamble. Every major industry lobbies for its interests, but congressional aides said that lobbyists for pharmaceutical companies were special: They outnumber the lobbyists for many other industries. Congressional aides said it was not unusual for the industry to dispatch 10 or 15 lobbyists to meet with two congressional aides. In addition, they said, drugmakers are fierce opponents of proposals they dislike, and are often reluctant to suggest alternatives of their own when Congress is seeking ways to save money. The pharmaceutical industry’s intransigence has begun to irk even staunch Republican allies. It contrasts with the industry’s support for adoption of the Affordable Care Act in 2009 and 2010 and its role in shaping the prescription drug benefit added to Medicare under a 2003 law. Drug companies say their lobbying reflects the fact that they are concerned about myriad issues, including Medicare and Medicaid, trade and taxes, patent rights, drug regulation, opioids and the budget for biomedical research. They have prepared an elaborate response to criticism of their pricing practices. In an ad campaign, drugmakers boast that they are producing cures and treatments for cancer, hepatitis C and other diseases. They blame “middlemen” — insurers and pharmacy benefit managers — for the high costs that consumers often incur. High-deductible health plans, which may require consumers to spend thousands of dollars out of pocket, are another culprit, they say. The industry has a bipartisan stable of lobbyists who worked on health legislation for influential members of Congress. A longtime aide to former Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, works for the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America. An aide to former Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, who was the chairman of the Senate health committee, is now a top lobbyist for Merck. The door swings in both directions. For six years, Gary Andres was the Republican staff director of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which is responsible for legislation that affects prescription drugs and the F.D.A. In February 2017, he became a senior executive vice president of the Biotechnology Innovation Organization, a trade group that lobbies for biotech companies. Then he returned last month to Capitol Hill to become the Republican staff director of the Ways and Means Committee, which has jurisdiction over Medicare, including its payments for prescription drugs. Ryan Long, former chief health counsel at the Energy and Commerce Committee, joined BGR Government Affairs in February 2013. In lobbying disclosure reports filed by BGR, he was listed as a lobbyist for Amgen, Celgene, Gilead, Lilly and Merck, among other clients. He returned to the committee this March as the deputy staff director. Retired lawmakers also show up as lobbyists. Among those who are listed as having lobbied for the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America in recent years are former Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona and former Representative Bill Paxon of New York, both Republicans. Former Representative Ed Whitfield, Republican of Kentucky, is listed as lobbying for AstraZeneca, Genentech and Johnson & Johnson, among other companies. Whether that firepower will still be effective is an open question. “Nearly every major decision in this administration so far has favored the pharmaceutical industry,” said Ronny Gal, a securities analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. “But investors are apprehensive about the long-term horizon. Every other country has acted to control drug costs, and the view is that eventually the United States will have to do so.”
05.03.2018	WILLIAMSON COUNTY — An advocacy group that helped an asylum seeker gain her release from an immigrant detention center in Taylor plans to put officials “on trial” Saturday, when alleged abuses at the facility will be aired during an unofficial hearing outside the center. Williamson County Sheriff Robert Chody and the Williamson County Commissioners were invited to the hearing “for their role in the abuse through maintenance of the T. Don Hutto contract and oversight for the facility and crimes committed by CoreCivic employees and ICE officials,” according to a news release from Grassroots Leadership, a local advocacy group. None of the Williamson County officials who received a “people’s subpoena” to the event at the T. Don Hutto Residential Center plans to attend. “I have no intention of going,” said Chody. “I believe it’s an opportunity for them to try to publicly shame me for something I don’t have a lot of control over. I am willing to meet with them privately.” The event from 2 to 4 p.m. Saturday, called a “people’s tribunal,” will involve people released from immigrant detention centers acting as “judges” and women formerly detained at the detention center delivering a verdict. It is part of a series of tribunals the Detention Watch Network has been holding nationwide about alleged abuses at detention centers. “If they want change, they have to go after federal policy,” said Williamson County Commissioner Terry Cook. Other county commissioners had no comment about the unofficial hearing or said they couldn’t attend because of other commitments. Officials from Immigration and Customs Enforcement will not be on hand either, said Adelina Pruneda, an ICE spokeswoman. If no local officials attend the tribunal Saturday, someone will stand in to represent them, said Bethany Carson, a researcher for Grassroots Leadership. The two-hour event comes after representatives from GrassRoots Leadership and other community members asked Williamson County Commissioners at meetings this spring to address issues at the detention center. The county commissioners never put the item on their agenda, the Grassroots Leadership news release said. The group has previously asked Chody to investigate sexual assault allegations at the facility, which houses female asylum seekers. Chody has said he referred the issue to the FBI. In March, GrassRoots Leadership helped Laura Monterrosa — an asylum seeker from El Salvador who has alleged a female guard at the facility sexually assaulted her — gain her release from the center. Monterrosa’s release came after U.S. Reps. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, and Joaquin Castro, D-San Antonio, wrote to ICE officials in February, asking them to “direct an investigation of ICE’s handling of sexual assault cases in Texas immigration detention facilities.” Forty-four other members of Congress co-signed the letter, which said five detainees reported being sexually assaulted at the T. Don Hutto center between 2007 to 2011, according to Doggett’s office. CoreCivic, which owns and operates the facility, pays the county approximately $8,000 per month for the costs and expenses associated with employing a county representative to serve as a liaison between Williamson County, ICE and CoreCivic. The county can’t close the independently owned facility, but it can cancel the contract with CoreCivic and ICE, Williamson County spokeswoman Connie Odom has said.
05.02.2018	After a decade of dedicated service, Lee Ann Calaway will transition from district director in my Austin office to Chief of Staff to Travis County Sheriff Sally Hernandez. Lee Ann has been an invaluable member of my team, and I am very grateful for her public service and dedication. I know she will continue to succeed as she contributes to our community by working with our great Sheriff. With Lee Ann’s departure near the end of May, Erin Gurak will take over running the Austin office. Erin originally came to Central Texas as an Americorps volunteer working with College Forward at Lehman High School in Kyle. Most recently she has worked with TreeFolks, Austin's urban forestry nonprofit. She is a longtime volunteer with the Human Rights Campaign Steering Committee of Austin, where she chaired the 2018 HRC Austin Gala. Thank you, Lee Ann, for your partnership and service, and welcome, Erin, to the team! And if you are coming by our Austin office, know that we have temporarily moved to the 4th floor, just right off the elevators, while some improvements are underway on the old Federal Building.
05.01.2018	If you’d like to send a little Tricentennial cheer around the globe, the U.S. Postal Service during May will be using a special pictorial postmark to celebrate San Antonio’s 300th anniversary, available only at the Arsenal post office, 1140 S. Laredo St. San Antonio Postmaster Robert Carr Jr.’s staff began the process of getting the postmark approved some 10 weeks ago, and he unveiled it Monday with U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, City Councilwoman Shirley Gonzales and Tricentennial Commission Director Carlos Contreras. “It’s harder than you might think,” Carr said. “We worked on the design and sent it up to D.C. and they’d say, ‘Try again,’ and send it back. We want to thank the congressman for all his work behind the scenes to make this happen.” For the nonphilatelic, this is not a paper stamp, but the official black-inked mark that generally goes across the stamp to keep it from being used again. According to Linn’s Stamp News, it “not only includes the circle giving date and town data, but also all the extraneous markings indicating routing, directory service, postage due, special delivery” and so forth. Special postmarks like the Tricentennial one require special training for postal clerks who will apply it by hand, said Carr — “you only get one chance to do it right” — and the wooden stamps used to create the cancellations must be destroyed after May. The postmark will read: “Tricentennial Station” (at the top) and “San Antonio, TX 78205 May 1, 2018” (on the lower half). For the month of May, the Arsenal post office officially will be known as the Tricentennial Station. Philatelists say in today’s world, a special postmark will not necessarily make any envelope or stamp more valuable, but unique postmarks have indeed made some very old letters more wanted by collectors. If you can’t come to the Arsenal Station in person, you should get an envelope or postcard bearing at least the minimum first-class postage, then address it to yourself or others. Stick a letter-sized piece of cardboard in the envelope to keep it sturdy and tuck in the flap. Place this envelope or postcard in a larger envelope and address it to: Pictorial Postmarks, Arsenal Station, San Antonio, TX 78205.For those who want the Tricentennial postmark on their letters, you must follow this process: Those who come in person can bring that self-addressed stamped envelope and present it to a clerk for processing, or they may buy, for 63 cents, an envelope that already bears a stamp and the Tricentennial postmark. The postmark debuts Tuesday morning.
04.30.2018	San Antonio, Texas — Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett, with Mayor Pro-Tem Councilwoman Shirley Gonzales, Executive Director of San Antonio Tricentennial Commission Carlos Contreras, and San Antonio Postmaster Robert D. Carr Jr. unveiled the City’s official Tricentennial Pictorial Postmark from the U.S. Postal Service, an exciting federal recognition of our City’s 300th year to kick-off Commemorative Week. Starting tomorrow, May 1st, San Antonians will be able to use the commemorative pictorial postmark all month long on their mail presented for postmarking at the retail window at the Arsenal Station Post Office, located at 1140 S Laredo St., San Antonio, TX 78204, in honor of the City’s Tricentennial celebrations. The Postmark can be found below. “The Tricentennial Pictorial Postmark will give San Antonians an opportunity to share the history and celebration of San Antonio’s 300th year across the country and world and save our city’s story as special memorabilia,” said Congressman Doggett. “As we commemorate San Antonio’s rich achievements this week, may we leave our mark on history as we look forward to the next 300 years and beyond.” “This is the perfect opportunity to connect your family and friends who do not reside in San Antonio with our colorful, 300-year-old ‘cultura’,” said Councilwoman Shirley Gonzales, District 5. “A postcard or letter featuring this special Tricentennial postmark is an easy and limited edition gift that I’m sure many would appreciate.” “This unique commemorative cancellation postmark showcases San Antonio’s excitement in celebrating and remembering 300 years of history, people and traditions,” said Carlos Contreras, Executive Director of San Antonio Tricentennial Commission. “The stamp will serve as an invitation to those receiving their mail around the world to come visit San Antonio and discover its rich history and diverse culture.” "The San Antonio Post Office is honored to provide this special pictorial postmark, which commemorates the 300th Anniversary of San Antonio," said Postmaster Robert Carr. "On letters traveling near and far, this special postmark will serve as a lasting memento and special reminder of our city's long, colorful and rich heritage." Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
04.27.2018	Aiming to prevent further tragedies similar to the fatal hot air balloon crash that killed 16 people near Lockhart in 2016, an Austin congressman won passage of legislation Friday in the U.S. House that would require balloon operators to obtain a medical certificate. In October, the National Transportation Safety Board had found that the Federal Aviation Administration’s refusal to require balloon operators to obtain a medical certificate contributed to the Caldwell County crash. The wide-ranging FAA bill that passed Friday includes an amendment by U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, that ends the exemption. “The FAA should have corrected this long ago,” Doggett said this week as he introduced his amendment. “Now with adoption of this amendment, I am hopeful that no other family will ever suffer the same horror as this tragedy near Lockhart.” The safety board concluded that a cocktail of prescription drugs, including oxycodone, Valium and enough Benadryl to approximate the effects of drunken driving, contributed to pilot Alfred “Skip” Nichols’ pattern of poor decision-making. Safety board officials said Nichols’ depression and ADHD also might have played a role. Since the crash, the issue of medical certificates, which are designed to ensure pilots are physically fit to fly, has united lawmakers across the political spectrum. After the federal safety board in October recommended that the FAA require medical checks for commercial balloon pilots — as it does for helicopter and airplane pilots — both Doggett and U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, issued statements in support of the safety board’s recommendation. Medical checks are designed to uncover the use of prohibited medications, potentially impairing medical conditions and any history of driving while intoxicated. Nichols had a lengthy criminal history involving drunken driving and drug convictions that he never disclosed to the FAA. Countries such as England, Canada and Australia require such certificates for balloon pilots. But the FAA, which said in October it would “carefully consider” its sister agency’s recommendation, had sent signals that it planned to resist calls for greater balloon pilot oversight. In October, for example, the agency, which for years has rejected the safety board’s calls for better balloon oversight, issued a news release praising an industry-led, voluntary safety program developed by the Balloon Federation of America as something that will “enhance safety and professionalism, and allow consumers to be better informed before they choose a commercial balloon ride operator.” In October, National Transportation Safety Board Chairman Robert Sumwalt called it “sad” that the FAA was putting safety oversight in the hands of an industry group and not providing the same amount of regulation for balloon pilots that it does for helicopter and airplane pilots. “I’m disappointed the FAA appears to be shirking its responsibility,” Sumwalt said. The legislation now moves to the U.S. Senate. Doggett on Thursday said “only legislative action by us will address this problem.”
04.27.2018	San Antonio, Texas — On Monday, April 30, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett, with Mayor Pro-Tem Councilwoman Shirley Gonzales, Executive Director of San Antonio Tricentennial Commission Carlos Contreras, and San Antonio Postmaster Robert D. Carr Jr. will unveil the City’s official Tricentennial Cancellation Postmark from the U.S. Postal Service, an exciting federal recognition of our City’s 300th year to kick-off Commemorative Week. Starting May 1st, San Antonians will be able to use the commemorative pictorial postmark all month long on their mail at the Arsenal Station United States Postal Service in San Antonio, in honor of the City’s Tricentennial celebrations. Press are encouraged to attend. Who: U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett Mayor Pro-Tem and Councilwoman Shirley Gonzales Carlos Contreras, Executive Director of San Antonio Tricentennial Commission & City of San Antonio Assistant City Manager San Antonio Postmaster Robert D. Carr Jr. Where: Arsenal Station United States Postal Service Lobby 1140 S. Laredo St. San Antonio, TX 78207 When: Monday, April 30, 2018 2:00 PM Visuals: Pop-up signage with the Tricentennial logo and poster-sized artwork of the cancellation postmark ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
04.26.2018	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett’s (D-TX) hot air balloon pilot safety amendment, was approved as a part of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act. Rep. Doggett’s amendment is designed to prevent more tragedies similar to the fatal hot air balloon crash that killed 16 people near Lockhart in 2016. He delivered remarks on the House Floor, which can be found here. Rep. Doggett also said, “The FAA should have corrected this long ago. Now with adoption of this amendment, I am hopeful that no other family will ever suffer the same horror as this tragedy near Lockhart.” 2016’s hot air balloon crash was the deadliest aviation disaster since 2009. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) found that the FAA’s refusal to require balloon operators to obtain a medical certificate contributed to the Caldwell County crash. Rep. Doggett’s approved amendment ends this exemption to ensure no more families risk injury or death from an impaired pilot. In his remarks, Rep. Doggett pointed to the photograph below, which illustrates what was left after the accident. In October 2017, the NTSB Chair Robert Sumwalt said, “I am disappointed that the FAA appears to be shirking its responsibility.” Rep. Doggett also spoke on his amenment on the House Floor yesterday, which can be found here. Photo: NTSB Report ###
04.26.2018	Remains from the July 2016 balloon flight near Lockhart. PHOTO: NTSB An Austin congressman, whose district runs into parts of San Antonio, has offered up federal legislation to make hot-air balloon flights safer. It's a response to the balloon crash that killed 16 people near Lockhart in 2016. The National Transportation and Safety Board's investigation discovered that the balloon pilot had drugs in his system, including Valium and oxycodone, a prescription opiate. U.S. congressman Lloyd Doggett introduced an amendment to a Federal Aviation Administration Reauthorization Bill that aims to improve safety on all commercial balloon flights, including ensuring pilots' physical health. “The NTSB found that the FAA’s refusal to require commercial balloon operators to obtain a medical certificate that they are suitable for flying contributed to this crash. My bipartisan amendment would end this exemption,” Doggett said. The legislation with Doggett’s amendment is up for a vote this week. Ryan Poppe can be reached at mailto:rpoppe@tpr.org/ or on Twitter @RyanPoppe1
04.25.2018	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) delivered remarks on the House Floor on an amendment he authored, designed to prevent more tragedies similar to the devastating hot air balloon crash that killed 16 people near Lockhart in 2016. Rep. Doggett’s full remarks can be found here. In part, Rep. Doggett said: “Since 2016, I have repeatedly urged the FAA [Federal Aviation Administration] to adopt a safety measure, long recommended by the NTSB [National Transportation Safety Board], to help avert other such tragedies. The NTSB found that the FAA’s refusal to require balloon operators to obtain a medical certificate contributed to the Caldwell County crash. My bipartisan amendment would end this exemption and ensure no more families risk injury or death from an impaired pilot. Continued inaction is inexcusable and risks condemning more unsuspecting passengers to death. “Uniting in an early morning prayer at the Caldwell County Courthouse to remember the victims, a bell was rung sixteen times for each person lost. You cannot unring a bell. We cannot bring these precious lives back. But from their loss, we can pass my amendment and help ensure no other family must so needlessly suffer.” 2016’s hot air balloon crash was the deadliest aviation disaster since 2009. In his remarks, Rep. Doggett pointed to the photograph below, which illustrates what was left after the accident. In October 2017, the NTSB Chair Robert Sumwalt said, “I am disappointed that the FAA appears to be shirking its responsibility.” Rep. Doggett’s amendment was approved for Floor action as part of the Federal Aviation Administration Reauthorization Act and may be considered on Thursday or Friday. Before any bill can be considered in the House, a rule outlining the procedure for consideration and time allotted must be approved. Rep. Doggett spoke on this rule. Photo: NTSB Report ###
04.23.2018	The McCallum High School sophomore said she hears the statistics, in some form or another, over and over again as adults try to quell her fears and reassure her that she won’t be the next student to take a bullet while cowering in a classroom. Kelsey said her father was telling her the same thing on Feb. 27 when she received an alert to stay away from an Austin Community College campus after a man with a gun was reported at the DoubleTree Hotel in downtown Austin. She hears the same words as teachers lock their classroom doors during active shooter drills, preparing for the worst — “It probably won’t be us.” “But what about our siblings and our best friends? The faces we see when we walk down the hall? Will they be OK, too?” Kelsey said. “It’s not fair to hope and pray that it won’t be you or I, because without change, it will be someone. Close or far, it will be someone. Someone like us, ripped from this world too quickly, a classmate that will never walk across the stage at graduation, a child whose parents never got to send them to college through heartfelt goodbyes, a person who wanted to leave high school with their whole life ahead of them, but instead is leaving in a body bag.” Kelsey was one of thousands of Central Texas students who walked out of their schools Friday to participate in the National School Walkout, the latest in a string of student-led protests calling for stricter gun laws they say could prevent mass shootings like the massacres at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. in February, and Columbine High School on April 20, 1999. Friday’s protests fell on the 19th anniversary of the Columbine mass shooting, and multiple schools observed 13 minutes of silence to honor the students and teacher who died. Hundreds of similar walkouts were held around the nation Friday — organizers expected students at 2,700 U.S. schools to participate — although crowds in many places were reported to be smaller than at previous student-led demonstrations for gun control. At Stoneman Douglas High, about 50 students left the school to protest at a park, far fewer than the thousands who participated previously. Elsewhere, more than 1,000 gathered at Iowa’s state Capitol in Des Moines, several hundred gathered in New York’s Washington Square, and more protesters gathered outside the White House on Friday. In Austin, Elijah Stephens, a junior at McCallum, said a close friend was placed on lockdown a few days after the Parkland shooting when a threat was made against another Austin school district campus. “That was terrifying because she’s my oldest friend and I’ve known her forever. I’m tired and it’s absolutely ridiculous and there’s no reason for anyone to have access to guns like these people are using,” Elijah said. “I’m here because I’m tired of being looked over. I’m tired of being scared that something is going to happen.” Hundreds of students also poured out of McNeil High School in the Round Rock school district on Friday morning. They held signs that read “make murder more difficult,” “gun rights or human rights” and “don’t fight firearms with firearms” while observing a moment of silence for students who lost their lives in violent attacks. A handful of students who opposed the walkout stood on the outskirts of the rally, including 18-year-old Andrew Ulcak. People cause problems, not guns, Andrew said. “They are carrying a sign that says ‘Books not Bullets,’ but they are skipping class and it is an unexcused absence,” he said. More than 2,000 students left their schools, boarded buses or hopped in cars and gathered at Wooldridge Square Park before marching to the Capitol for an afternoon rally. But many more participated in events on campus at virtually every high school in Austin, and at some middle schools. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, told the students who walked out of their schools that they had to do so because too many elected officials had walked out on them already. He said students protesting across the United States are the only reason there is still a national conversation about gun violence. Mahalia Norton, a Hays High School student who attended the Capitol rally, said there were two shooting threats at her school on Thursday. “I could not study for any of my tests to safe my life,” she said. “I don’t like feeling threatened where I go to learn.” Mahalia said she would like to see the gun debate become a less polarizing issue. Austin High School freshman Olivia Hoffman was one of the student organizers behind the rally. “I appreciate America’s history and the role guns had to play in that. However, we do not deserve a country controlled by a political pressure group hell-bent on bringing absolutism to the Second Amendment,” Olivia said. “We deserve to get an education without the annihilation. We don’t need hardened schools, we need hardened laws.” Staff writers Mary Huber and Claire Osborn contributed to this report.
04.18.2018	Attorney General Jeff Sessions during a roundtable discussion about immigration and sanctuary cities, hosted by President Donald Trump in the Roosevelt Room of the White House, in Washington, March 20, 2018. PHOTO: DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES WASHINGTON - Two San Antonio congressmen on Tuesday demanded that Attorney General Jeff Sessions answer allegations that the Justice Department is improperly rejecting candidates for immigration judges and the Board of Immigration Appeals based on politics. U.S. Reps. Lloyd Doggett and Joaquin Castro, both Democrats, said in a letter to Sessions that they have “grave concern” about whistle blower allegations that ideological and political considerations have blocked hiring despite backlogs in immigration cases. “These allegations are extremely troubling not only because they may violate federal law and repeated the mistakes of the past, but also because they further aggravate the critical need for more immigration judges and BIA (Board of Immigration Appeals) officials to address the massive backlogs in immigration hearings across the country,” the letter read. More than 600,000 cases are pending in front of the Executive Office for Immigration Review, the court system that adjudicates immigration cases. “These allegations come at a time when the entire immigration system is being wielded as a political tool to press the Trump administration’s political agenda,” the letter added. The allegations are expected to be raised Wednesday in a Senate Judiciary subcommittee examining the immigration court system. The Justice Department did not immediately respond to a request for comment. U.S. Reps. Elijah Cummings, D-Md., ranking Democrat on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, and Don Beyer, D-Va., also signed the letter. The congressmen said they had received information from unnamed sources that the Justice Department had “targeted multiple candidates” whose applications for immigration judges or Board of Immigration Appeals positions were delayed or withdrawn. The Board of Immigration Appeals is a 21-member administrative body that interprets immigration laws and decides appeals usually by reviewing cases rather than hearing oral arguments. The congressmen demanded hiring documents, including a list of candidates whose applications have been pending for over a year, and another a list of those who have been appointed during that time. The House members said they were aware of Justice Department memos noting candidates whose immigration views do not align with those of the Donald Trump administration. An applicant who was offered an immigration judge position nearly a year and a half ago and who passed a background check last summer said in an interview that politics is likely the reason that the Justice Department hasn’t been in touch about when to start work. “My number one concern is that it’s an attack on the institution of the immigration court system. When they’re starting to make judgments about someone’s politics, it’s communicating that people are unable to check ideology at the courtroom steps and apply the rule of law,” said the applicant, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. In the George W. Bush administration, an investigation concluded that a top aide to then-Attorney General Alberto Gonzales had violated Justice Department policy and engaged in misconduct by choosing immigration judges and filling other positions with candidates who espoused conservative positions when they were interviewed. Candidates told investigators that they were asked about matters that included abortion, same-sex marriage and party affiliation. The investigative report, co-authored by the department’s inspector general and internal ethics office, observed that “both department policy and federal law prohibit discrimination in hiring for career positions on the basis of political affiliations.” Doggett said in an interview that he was troubled by “a series of steps that this administration has been taking to constrict and restrict the justice system for people who have a refugee claim. It’s as if Trump is not satisfied with just building a wall at the border. He wants to build a wall at the court house.” The Justice Department drew criticism from immigrant advocates this month for suspending funding for legal orientation programs at immigration detention centers. Immigration advocates also questioned the administration’s recently announced plan to impose quotas on immigration judges. The judges will be required to complete 700 cases annually to receive a “satisfactory” performance rating. The average at present is 678. Doggett, a former Texas Supreme Court justice, said he is concerned that “the integrity of the immigration system is preserved and that the Trump administration appears to be seeking ideologues rather than civil servants who will act on a nonpartisan basis.” blambrecht@express-news.net
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, and Representatives Joaquin Castro (D-TX), Elijah Cummings (D-MD), and Don Beyer (D-VA) have questioned Attorney General Jeff Sessions about whistleblower allegations that the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) and the Department of Justice (DOJ) may be using ideological and political considerations to illegally block the hiring of immigration judges. You can read the full letter here and the letter text can be found below. Rep. Doggett said: “The Trump Administration seems determined to do everything possible—even impairing the integrity of the judiciary—to weight the scales of justice against immigrants. Offers to potential judges seem to be withdrawn and indefinitely delayed for political motives. Massive backlogs in immigration hearings are not being addressed in a way to achieve justice but with crackdowns on asylum-seekers, cuts to immigrant legal assistance, quotas for judges, separating children from parents, even terminating the San Antonio immigration help desk. Our courts should not be wielded as tools to further slam the door on the American Dream. Not satisfied with building a costly and unnecessary wall at the border, Trump is already building one at the courthouse.” Full Letter Text: The Honorable Jeff Sessions Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Mr. Attorney General: We are writing to express our grave concern regarding allegations we have received from whistleblowers indicating that the Department of Justice may be using ideological and political considerations to improperly—and illegally—block the hiring of immigration judges and members of the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA). We have confirmed that the Department has delayed multiple offers for these positions for unusually long amounts of time and, in one case, withdrew an offer with an explanation that raises suspicions about the actual motive for the withdrawal. If these allegations are true, they could violate federal law and Departmental policy, just as they did a decade ago when the Inspector General and the Office of Professional Responsibility concluded that the George W. Bush Administration engaged in similar illegal political discrimination when hiring immigration judges and BIA officials. These allegations are extremely troubling not only because they may violate federal law and repeat the mistakes of the past, but also because they further aggravate the critical need for more immigration judges and BIA officials to address the massive backlogs in immigration hearings across the country. We are writing to request information and documents to determine whether the immigration court hiring process once again has become illegally politicized. Allegations of Politicization in Immigration Judge and BIA Hiring Our offices recently received information alleging that the Department of Justice has targeted multiple candidates for immigration judge or BIA positions based on their perceived political or ideological views. These candidates reportedly have had their offers suspended or withdrawn due to these improper considerations. The information we received also indicates that there may be internal communications within the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) and elsewhere within the Department discussing the perceived immigration policy views of these individuals not aligning with those of the Trump Administration. We also understand that career Department employees may have counseled against taking action against these individuals because it could be considered illegal discrimination based on political viewpoint, but that advice may have been ignored. Our staff has confirmed lengthy delays in the immigration judge hiring process in multiple instances, including offers that still have not been finalized several months after the completion of a candidate’s background investigation. In one instance, EOIR reportedly withdrew a BIA offer after it had been pending for more than a year. Less than a week later, EOIR published a final rule increasing the size of the BIA from 17 to 21 board members. The notice explained: “recognizing the challenges the Board faces in light of its current and anticipated increased caseload, the Department has determined that four additional members should be added to the Board.”[1] In light of the Department’s stated need for additional BIA members, the decision to withdraw a BIA offer a week earlier could not have been based on a lack of need for well-qualified BIA members. Prior Illegal Practices in Immigration Judge and BIA Hiring In 2008, an investigation conducted jointly by the Inspector General and the Office of Professional Responsibility found that Monica Goodling and other aides to then-Attorney General Alberto Gonzales “considered political or ideological affiliations” when evaluating immigration judge candidates and candidates for the BIA, both career positions.[2] The report found that the “evidence showed that the most systematic use of political or ideological affiliations in screening candidates for career positions occurred in the selection of IJs, who work in the Department’s Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR).”[3] The report stated unequivocally that “both Department policy and federal law prohibit discrimination in hiring for career positions on the basis of political affiliations.”[4] Following the report’s release, then-Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey stated that he was “disturbed” by the report’s findings and vowed to implement “institutional change” at the Department.[5] Request for Information and Documents These allegations come at a time when the entire immigration system is being wielded as a political tool to press the Trump Administration’s political agenda, including through the suspension of the Legal Orientation Program that provides crucial information to immigrants about their legal and constitutional rights, the imposition of case clearing quotas on immigration judges, and your decision to personally perform multiple certifications of key immigration court decisions.[6] For the reasons set forth above, we request that you produce, by April 27, 2018, the following documents and information: a list of candidates for immigration judge or BIA positions whose applications have been pending for more than one year since they were given an offer, including the candidate’s name, current or most recent employment, and whether the candidate has already passed a background check; a list of all individuals who have been appointed as immigration judges or appointed to the BIA since January 20, 2017, including the candidate’s name, the date of the candidate’s temporary appointment, the date of the candidate’s permanent appointment, and the date of the candidate’s training for the position; and for anyone who has passed a background check for an immigration judge or BIA position but has not been given an appointment or had his or her offer withdrawn, all communications regarding the status of that individual’s application. We also request that the Department provide a briefing to our staff, no later than April 27, 2018, on the EOIR hiring process and the issues detailed in this letter. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, and Congressmen Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Ted Lieu (D-CA), and David Cicilline (D-RI) introduced the Special Counsel Transparency Act, a bill that would preserve the important work of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation in the event that President Trump fires him. Rep. Doggett said: “Amid President Trump’s ongoing baseless attacks on Special Counsel Robert Mueller, we move ever closer to a crisis that will impact the entire country,” said Congressman Doggett. “As Trump tries to insulate himself from accountability, we must ensure that the Special Counsel’s work is not buried and our democracy is not destroyed. This legislation would ensure that a President, who has shown so little respect for the rule of law, cannot seize and secret any evidence of misconduct already gathered by law enforcement.” Congressman Jamie Raskin said, “We must do everything in our power to stop the Special Counsel from being fired, but if he is fired, we must at all costs prevent the White House or its designees from destroying more than a year’s worth of evidence and work product of the Special Counsel. We must preserve the evidence.” “Firing Special Counsel Mueller would be an assault on our democracy,” said Congressman Ted Lieu. “The American people have a right to know the findings of this investigation. If the President tries to obstruct justice by firing Mr. Mueller, we have a duty to preserve the integrity of the investigation. This bill does just that. It ensures documents and relevant materials aren’t tampered with or destroyed, and as such allows the investigation to proceed.” “As President Trump continues to threaten the Special Counsel’s investigation, there is a clear need to ensure he cannot bury any evidence that’s already been uncovered,” said Congressman David Cicilline. “This bill will preserve Special Counsel Mueller’s work regardless of any action the President takes in the days ahead.” The Special Counsel Transparency Act has been endorsed by Open the Government, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, the Sunlight Foundation, and Project on Government Oversight. “The Special Counsel Transparency Act would protect the Special Counsel's investigation by triggering the disclosure of evidence to Congress in the event of the Mueller's dismissal, which helps prevent a cover-up, protects any evidence of wrongdoing, and reasserts Congress's relevance to the investigation, all at the same time,” said John Wonderlich, Executive Director of the Sunlight Foundation. “Congress should carefully consider and then pass this bill, and quickly.” “We strongly support the Special Counsel Transparency Act of 2018, because it’s imperative that Congress exercise its oversight power to see Robert Mueller’s investigation through to the end,” said Open the Government Executive Director Lisa Rosenberg. “All documents that pertain to this investigation must be preserved and conclusions shared, so we can protect our system of checks and balances, ensure the peoples’ right to know, demand accountability if wrongdoing occurred, and increase trust in future elections.” The Special Counsel Transparency Act would: In the event the Special Counsel is removed, require the Special Counsel to provide a report to congressional leadership and the House and Senate Judiciary Committees detailing the status of the investigation and facts found as of the date of dismissal. This report shall include any evidence of criminal activity that implicates the President, any person within the Executive Office of the President, or any political officer, including evidence protected by grand jury secrecy rules. Prohibit the prosecution of the Special Counsel for any disclosures made to Congress pursuant to this bill. Require the Department of Justice to provide a comparable report to Congress detailing the status of the investigation and facts found. ###
04.16.2018	Highlights GOP Rep. Michael McCaul and Sen. John Cornyn praise the president’s actions. Rep. Lloyd Doggett and some other Democrats say Trump should have sought congressional approval. U.S. lawmakers from Central Texas and across the state had mixed reactions Saturday to President Donald Trump’s decision to launch airstrikes at Syria, with some applauding the action and others saying he first needed congressional approval. The airstrikes were in retaliation to a suspected chemical weapons attack by the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad on his own people. On Saturday, Trump declared the strikes a success, tweeting “Mission accomplished!” U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Austin, said the attacks send a “clear message to the Assad regime the U.S. and our allies will not tolerate the use of chemical weapons.” “Russia and Iran must end support for this barbaric regime and work with international community to end the slaughter and bloodshed in Syria,” he said. But U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, said Trump had “no strategy for success or legal authority” to order the strikes, adding that attacks on a Syrian target in 2017 “accomplished nothing.” “The danger of escalation remains real, but the potential for stopping more Assad murders is minimal,” he said. “Now, like George W. Bush’s bizarrely premature declaration of ‘Mission Accomplished’ in Iraq, Trump has now tweeted ‘Mission Accomplished.’ What Mission? What accomplishment?” U.S. Rep. Joaquin Castro, D-San Antonio, said U.S. leaders faced a “terrible, tough choice,” adding “missiles don’t solve long-term challenges.” He urged the president to consult with Congress on any future military action against Assad and future foreign policy challenges. “It is nearly impossible to employ a sensible diplomatic strategy without the infrastructure for diplomacy in place,” Castro said. “We have no confirmed secretary of state and a new national security advisor who has a track record of politicizing intelligence and inflating the dangers of Syria’s biological and nuclear weapons program during his previous public service.” U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar, D-Laredo said the chemical attacks “make it clear” that, as a global leader, the United States must lead efforts to prevent more attacks on Syrian civilian. “Although it is disappointing that we do not have unanimity on the United Nations Security Council on this issue, we cannot let it deter our commitment to this matter, or allow it to diminish our moral, Democratic obligation” he said. In a series of tweets, U.S. Rep. Beto O’Rourke, D-El Paso, said the American people should be the decision-makers when it comes to military attacks on other countries. “We may decide that use of chemical weapons requires a military response,” he said. “But we must decide that lawfully, as a country, through our representatives in Congress. Holding the president to the law and Constitution doesn’t mean we condone Assad nor does it preclude military response.” O’Rourke also criticized the White House for its refusal to accept Syrian refugees. “We are on pace to welcome only 44 this year — FORTY FOUR — in the wealthiest most powerful country the world has ever known,” he said in a tweet. While those Texas representatives had a lot to say, Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, had a one-word reaction to the president’s announcement: “Good.” He did not respond to a request for further comment.
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, delivered remarks on the House Floor opposing Republicans’ hypocritical and fiscally irresponsible Balanced Budget Amendment. You can view his full remarks here and find the full transcript below. Rep. Lloyd Doggett Remarks as Delivered House Floor April 12, 2018 “Like some stormy sermon from Trump on the virtues of chastity, I believe these House Republicans today deserve a gold medal for hypocrisy. After approving their budget-busting, trickle-down, trillion-dollar tax breaks and refusing to pay a dime for their huge increases in military spending, they have the audacity to advance a balanced budget amendment. “Choosing words over deeds, they shamelessly preach the gospel of “Do what I say, not what I do.” “I have already voted to seek a balanced budget when I voted against launching an unnecessary war on borrowed money. I voted for a balanced budget when I voted to reject the distorted Republican theology that when the question is taxes, less always means more. The more tax cut theology is proven wrong over and over and over again, the more the Republicans demand another tax cut to drive us ever deeper into debt. “Dripping in red ink, Trump’s tax bill that he is promoting right now at the White House certainly validates his boast that he is “the King of Debt” and that House Republicans are his supplicants. Our children and grandchildren are being saddled with over two trillion dollars more in debt over a decade just because of this one bill. All so that Trump, his wealthy buddies, and a few large multinational corporations can receive windfall tax breaks. “For Trump and his congressional enablers, “fiscal responsibility” is just a hollow, political slogan used to undermine the vital education, health care, and retirement security initiatives like Medicare, which they have never truly supported. They would surely let Medicare “wither on the vine,” as one of the King of Debt’s loudest troubadours. Reject this proposal.” ###
04.12.2018	The attempted display of fiscal responsibility fell flat among some conservatives who are still smarting over the Republican-controlled Congress’s recent spending spree. PHOTO: PETE MAROVICH WASHINGTON — With tax rates falling, spending rising and deficits soaring, House Republicans dusted off a long-debated proposal on Thursday to amend the Constitution to require a balanced budget — only to watch it fail. The amendment was supported by 233 House members but opposed by 184 others, leaving it well short of the two-thirds support needed for approval under the Constitution. The amendment was almost certainly going nowhere, since it would have needed a two-thirds vote in the Senate as well, followed by ratification by three-quarters of the states. In the abstract, the vote on Thursday was an opportunity for Republicans in the House to demonstrate their concern for the government’s fiscal health, even if recent actions by their party suggest otherwise. But the symbolic move was derided on both sides of the aisle. “It is an effort to fool the American people into believing that this Congress is financially responsible when quite clearly, based on the votes of the past year, it is wholly and completely irresponsible,” said Representative Mo Brooks, Republican of Alabama, who nonetheless voted for the proposal. Tim Phillips, the president of Americans for Prosperity, a group backed by the Koch brothers, was similarly unimpressed. “If lawmakers think they can use a balanced-budget amendment as a fig leaf of fiscal responsibility after just voting for such an irresponsible spending bill,” he said, “they should think again.” It has been a painful few months for those worried about growing budget deficits. In December, Republicans celebrated the passage of an overhaul of the tax code, which the Congressional Budget Office now says will add nearly $1.9 trillion to budget deficits from 2018 to 2028, a figure that includes lost revenue as well as additional interest costs. This year, Congress approved a two-year budget deal to increase strict limits on military and domestic spending, and lawmakers subsequently approved a $1.3 trillion spending plan that provides big increases in funding. On Monday, the budget office released an updated forecast that took into account the tax bill and the spending legislation, and the consequences were grim. The deficit is now projected to exceed $1 trillion in 2020, and deficits over the next decade are expected to total $11.7 trillion, up from the $10.1 trillion that had been expected last June. “This Congress and this administration likely will go down as one of the most fiscally irresponsible administrations and Congresses that we’ve had,” Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, observed this week. Yet on Thursday afternoon, House Republicans took to the floor of their chamber to proclaim the peril of the rising national debt, which has topped $21 trillion. For Republicans, the debate over the proposal amounted to an opportunity to vent — but not much more than that. Representative Robert W. Goodlatte, Republican of Virginia and the proposal’s sponsor, said the constitutional amendment would apply needed “external pressure” to force Congress to make difficult decisions — a “stop me before I kill again” argument that has long propelled the balanced budget amendment. “It’s time for Congress to stop saddling future generations with the burden of crushing debts to pay for current spending,” Mr. Goodlatte said. “We should not pass on to our children and grandchildren the bleak fiscal future that our unsustainable spending is creating.” But the attempted display of fiscal responsibility did little to soothe some conservative critics of the Republicans’ recent spending spree. “The base does not want to see a stupid bad bill and then go get patted on their head,” said Adam Brandon, the president of FreedomWorks, a conservative advocacy group. Amending the Constitution to require the federal government to have a balanced budget has been discussed for decades, and proposed amendments failed in the House and Senate in 2011. The vote held on Thursday fulfilled a commitment that the Republican leadership in the House had made to conservative lawmakers last year. But Democrats assailed Republicans for preaching fiscal responsibility not long after voting for a tax bill that is projected to widen deficits. They warned that the proposal, if it ever became reality, would lead to deep cuts to Social Security and Medicare, programs that are driving up spending as the population ages. “Like some stormy sermon from Trump on the virtues of chastity, I believe these House Republicans today really do deserve a gold medal for hypocrisy,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas. In addition, economists critical of the idea of a balanced-budget amendment argue that it would essentially tie the hands of the government in the event of a recession, making economic conditions even worse. “It would force the government to kick the economy when it was down, because it would force the government to raise taxes and cut benefit programs, or any other type of spending, when times were bad — which is exactly the opposite of what you want to do,” said Richard Kogan, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a left-leaning research organization. In another sign of the discomfort being felt by Republicans over the recent spending bill, the White House and congressional Republicans — including Representative Kevin McCarthy, the majority leader — have been discussing whether to try to rescind some previously approved spending. Using procedures laid out in a 1974 budget law, such an effort could pass the Senate with only a majority, allowing Republicans to sidestep Democrats whose votes were needed to pass the spending bill last month. But even that would be a difficult threshold to reach, given the Republicans’ razor-thin majority in the Senate. The idea of clawing back already-approved funding has quickly run into resistance from some Republican lawmakers who are not eager to chip away at what had been a painstakingly negotiated spending plan. Lawmakers are already looking toward coming up with spending legislation for the next fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1. By going back on what had been a bipartisan agreement, future negotiations would presumably become more difficult. On Thursday, House Republicans also unveiled their farm bill, which includes significant new work requirements for recipients of benefits through the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, which provides food aid for around 40 million low-income Americans.
04.12.2018	April 11--U.S. House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wisconsin, will end his 20-year political career on Capitol Hill, he announced Wednesday. Ryan said he would complete the rest of his term, which ends in January. Members of Congress from Central Texas reacted to Ryan’s announcement. Here’s what they said: ”As speaker of the House, Paul has served our country honorably. I appreciate his leadership in both policy and in character, and I was proud to work with him to achieve historic tax reform. I wish him well in his future aspirations and thank him for his service.” -- U.S. Rep. Roger Williams, R-Austin “Speaker Ryan, long mute in the face of increasingly erratic and dangerous Trump behavior, should now find his voice and allow a vote to protect special counsel Robert Mueller from being fired.” -- U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin ”Speaker Ryan has provided conservative leadership needed to enact important legislation for the American people. His legacy in Congress will be that of fighting for taxpayers -- last year the House passed and the president signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the biggest update to the tax code in more than 30 years. The bill reduced taxes, has given bigger paychecks to families and is continuing to result in new jobs for Americans.” -- U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio ”Speaker Ryan has served with distinction for almost 20 years and because of his leadership, the House has pursued a bold agenda that has ushered in a new tax code, ended sequestration and worked to rebuild our military. It has been a privilege to work alongside him and call him my friend. While his remarkable leadership in the House will be greatly missed, I wish him the very best as he embarks on this new journey with his family.” -- U.S. Rep. John Carter, R-Round Rock ”Paul dedicated his legislative career to overhauling our broken tax code. Under his leadership, House Republicans passed the first comprehensive tax reform in three decades, delivering real relief to hardworking Americans across the country, but especially here at home in Texas. His steadfast leadership has also been crucial in rebuilding our broken military and restoring America’s leadership on the global stage.” -- U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Austin ”Under Paul Ryan’s leadership as speaker, we have been able to provide hardworking American families and businesses with much-needed tax reform and regulatory reform, we have begun rebuilding our military, and we have put forward an agenda to restore confidence in America. I am grateful for his bold leadership, his commitment to conservative principles and, especially, for his friendship. I wish him the best of luck as he moves on to be with his family after 20 years of public service. I will deeply miss him in Congress.” -- U.S. Rep. Bill Flores, R-Bryan
04.09.2018	Before U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett and state Rep. Eddie Rodriguez sounded off against opponents of gun safety legislation during a town hall Sunday to discuss school shootings, students who shared the panel with them took a moment to describe the daily tensions they experience on campus. Julia Heilrayne, a sophomore at Austin High School, relayed a story from a friend during a lunch period. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, left, talks to LASA students, left to right, Jack Kappelman, Kari Siegenthaler and Conor Heffernan, all 18 years old, at the Town Hall For Our Lives at Travis High School on Sunday. Photo: Jay Janner “Someone just popped a chip bag in the cafeteria, and I’ve never heard a whole room of high schoolers go so quiet so fast,” she said. “These tiny little things, they freak us out. We’re all on edge at school right now, and that’s not OK.” And Ari Miller-Fortman, a freshman at the McCallum Fine Arts Academy, recalled when her school had a fire drill the week after the Parkland, Fla., shooter killed 17 at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. The shooter pulled a fire alarm to draw the students from their classrooms before he started shooting — a fact that was not lost on McCallum students. “Nobody got up once the fire alarm went off. Nobody wanted to get up because we were all scared — what if this isn’t a drill? We shouldn’t be sitting here not getting up during a fire drill — which is a practice for our safety — because we’re scared of getting shot at our own school,” she said. Hundreds of people were in attendance at Travis High School on Sunday as 26 students joined Doggett and Rodriguez, both Democrats from Austin, on stage to discuss why enacting gun safety legislation in response to school shootings has seemed nearly impossible. Sunday’s event was a follow-up to last month’s March for Our Lives rally. More than a million people attended the march in cities across the country, including about 20,000 in Austin. After the success of those demonstrations, David Hogg, a student survivor of the Parkland massacre, wanted to channel the energy of the demonstrations into town halls, and through an effort they now call Town Hall for Our Lives, Hogg and other march organizers raised a call for a town hall in every congressional district in the U.S. “Everyone should call for a town hall with their representative on April 7th,” Hogg wrote in a March 25 tweet after the demonstrations. “Call your rep today to organize it and if they refuse to show up just invite their opponent.” If representatives refused to attend or ignored town hall invitations, organizers were encouraged to display an empty chair. According to organizers, Austin’s event at Travis High is one of roughly 215 across the country, which include town halls, “empty chair” town halls, campaign events and conference calls with representatives. Twelve events have been organized in Texas, according to a member of the group. U.S. Rep. Roger Williams, R-Austin, has been invited to speak at an event scheduled May 5 in Austin, and U.S. Rep. Beto O’Rourke, the El Paso Democrat challenging U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz for his seat, has organized a campaign event April 15 in Georgetown. Cruz, Sen. John Cornyn and Rep. Michael McCaul — all Republicans — received invitations to Sunday’s event, but only Cruz gave a response: “Senator Cruz sends his sincere apologies because he had a scheduling conflict,” said Jack Kappelman, a Liberal Arts and Science Academy senior. Unchallenged by Republican representation at the event, Doggett and Rodriguez took aim at their GOP colleagues and the National Rifle Association. “The reason we don’t have a ban on assault weapons or magazines or universal background checks, it’s the same answer for everything: there’s an NRA ownership over Congress,” Doggett said. “We have a logjam right now, where NRA now stands for ‘No Republican Action.’ ” Photo: Jay Janner "Keep this intensity going," state Rep. Eddie Rodriguez, D-Austin, said at Sunday's town hall at Travis High. “We have to match their ... Read More Rodriguez, who is no stranger to filing gun control legislation in the firearm-friendly Texas Capitol, implored the students to match the NRA’s level of tenacity. “Keep this intensity going,” he said. “We have to match their intensity and then some. … That’s where I see this movement going — becoming a political force.” “I assure you there will be many bills filed that y’all can support,” he said, speaking of Texas’ upcoming 86th legislative session. As the students and politicians discussed continuing the pressure on Capitol Hill, it wasn’t long before the crowd was reminded of how mass shooting events resonate in Austin. Karen Collins was earning her master’s degree at the University of Texas the same year Charles Whitman opened fire from the UT Tower, killing 14 people and wounding nearly three dozen on Aug. 1, 1966. On Sunday, she held the crowd in thrall as she painted a grim picture of that day. “I watched my fellow students get shot; I watched them fall to that hot, blistering pavement; I watched them die; I watched policemen die; I watched an armored car finally come and protect those that were laying on the pavement and pick them up and drive them away. I watched them carry a body out of the tower, and I can tell you — you can see from my age — you never get over it,” she said. Collins commended the students for trying to force congressional action. “I want you to run for office as soon as you can,” she said to wild applause and a standing ovation. For many students who are still under voting age, they must first turn 18 and register. And for Kappelman, that day is today. “You can expect a new voting bloc to come out of this movement,” he said.
04.06.2018	Saturday, April 7, 2018 "SAHA Wheatley Park Senior Living Ribbon Cutting" Starts at 10:00 a.m. East Meadows, 910 N Mittman St. San Antonio "March for Our Lives Community Forum" Starts at 1:00 p.m. La Trinidad United Methodist Church, 300 San Fernando St. San Antonio "Paseo Por El Westside" 2:00 p.m. Rinconcito De Esperanza, 816 S Colorado St. San Antonio Sunday, April 8, 2018 “Town Hall for Our Lives” Starts at 2:00 p.m. William B. Travis High School, 1211 E Oltorf St. Austin
04.04.2018	Central American migrants taking part in a caravan headed toward the United States line up for food at a sports field in Matias Romero, Mexico. VICTORIA RAZO/GETTY IMAGES WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump said Tuesday he’s preparing to send the military to guard parts of the border with Mexico, escalating his campaign against illegal immigration and his fight with Congress over funding the border wall. The president, who has closely monitored conservative media accounts of a “caravan” of Central American migrants in Mexico, offered no details on what sort of military presence he wants or when troops might be deployed. But seated next to Defense Secretary Jim Mattis at the White House, Trump said he had spoken with the retired Marine Corps general about “doing things militarily.” “Until we can have a wall and proper security, we’re going to be guarding our border with the military. That’s a big step. We really haven’t done that before, or certainly not very much before,” he said. At a news conference later alongside Baltic leaders, the president referred again to the Central Americans that were moving north and to “horrible, horrible and very unsafe laws in the United States” on immigration, an offensive he has stepped up on his Twitter account since the weekend. It was unclear from the remarks if the president had issued a firm policy directive to the Pentagon or whether sending troops to the border was something he simply was mulling while taking heat recently on immigration from elements of his base. National Guard troops have periodically been deployed to the border by the federal and state governments, and serve only in support roles to immigration and law enforcement officers. Today, the Texas National Guard maintains only a light footprint on the border, with 100 soldiers and airmen serving there at a cost of just under $1 million a month, said Lt. Col. Travis Walters, a spokesman based at Camp Mabry in Austin. The president’s demand for troops on the border drew immediate reactions from across the political landscape. “It’s just a really, bad, dangerous idea,” said U.S. Rep. Beto O’Rourke, an El Paso Democrat running against incumbent Republican Sen. Ted Cruz, who was endorsed Tuesday by the national Border Patrol union. “We do not want the military in our communities patrolling the border. We want the military being able to serve our country overseas, or at military installations like Fort Bliss or Fort Hood in Texas,” O’Rourke added. But Republican Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick applauded the decision. “Texas has added 500 additional troopers on the border and the Border Patrol has also increased manpower. Military troops can make an immediate difference in securing the border and help protect Texas communities and the rest of America,” he said. State Sen. José Menéndez, D-San Antonio, said Trump’s position “further cements my frustration at the $800 million that the state of Texas is wasting on the border” that instead could be spent on education or infrastructure. “How about the families of the men and women who are serving, who are spread so thin across the globe, and then ask them to go guard a border with not only one of our allies, but one of our strongest trading partners? It just seems so ignorant,” said Menéndez, the son of immigrants — his mother from Mexico, and his late father from Cuba. “It’s another example of the fact that we have a showman, a celebrity, a reality star in the White House who is playing a role that he just doesn’t know how to play. He lacks the skills to be a statesman or even a politician,” he said. The president has embraced the conservative media portrayal of the migration north of Hondurans and others from Central Americans as an effort to flout American immigration laws. The annual protest, which drew more participants this year, is led by Pueblo Sin Fronteras, which translates to “People Without Borders.” Mexican immigration officials this week began registering the migrants, many fleeing turbulent political and economic conditions. Some may qualify for humanitarian visas and or temporary permits to remain in Mexico, Mexican officials said, and some were deported. The president has stewed over immigration matters since Congress last month approved just $1.6 billion of the $25 billion he wants for the border wall, stipulating that much of the money was for fencing and imposing restrictions. But his repeated assertions of a border out of control conflict with a long trend of declining immigration. Apprehensions of unauthorized immigrants on the Southern border have declined from a peak of 1.6 million in 2000, to about 304,000 last year. The president’s intentions are unclear, and perhaps in their infancy, but the use of National Guard troops on the border is not new and generates debate over legalities. The Posse Comitatus Act bars the military from civilian policing, including “search, seizure, arrest or other similar activity” while supporting civilian law enforcement. In 2006, President George W. Bush announced the deployment of up to 6,000 National Guard troops to support the Border Patrol, and between 2006 and summer 2008, some 30,000 Guard members took part in what was called Operation Jump Start. The Guard units, under control of border state governors, took part in engineering, aviation, border entry identification teams and support activities other than what is deemed law enforcement. In 2007, Gov. Rick Perry ordered 604 Texas Guard troops working in “security platoons” to patrol the Rio Grande as part of what was described by state officials at the time as a “rolling surge.” More than 6,800 people in all were involved in that operation, with personnel coming from the Texas Guard, police departments, sheriffs’ officers, the Department of Public Safety, Texas Parks and Wildlife and the U.S. Coast Guard In 2010, President Barack Obama, although referring to immigration as “inherently the job of the federal government,” announced 1,200 National Guard troops would be deployed to assist the Border Patrol. Then last year, the Trump administration considered mobilizing 100,000 National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexico border, an idea that was quickly disavowed, according to a draft internal document obtained by the Associated Press. The president’s declaration is certain to roil Congress. Texas reaction to the idea was either muted or split along party lines, with the most strenuous objections coming from some border district Democrats. U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar, D-Laredo, remarked: “What the president fails to understand is that deploying troops to secure a border and constructing a 14th-century concrete wall, are outdated and inadequate answers to protecting our nation’s borders.” Rep. Joaquin Castro, D-San Antonio and a leading member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, asserted that we shouldn’t turn border communities into “militarized zones. In fact, using military troops for that purpose may violate the Posse Comitatus Act. President Trump should let Border Patrol do its job and let our military service members focus on the important duties they signed up for.” U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-San Antonio, said that, like holding a military parade in Washington, sending troops to the border diverts the military from its missions. “Ignoring the law, the cost to taxpayers, and umpteen campaign promises, Trump’s effort to militarize our border is just another of his bad border ideas,” Doggett said in a statement. U.S. Rep. Filemon Vela, a Brownsville Democrat, had harsher words for the president. “Trump is a racist and an idiot,” Vela said. “Mexico is an ally, not an enemy.” In Houston, U.S. Rep. Gene Green, a Democrat, also spoke out against the idea. “President Trump’s plan to deploy troops along the Rio Grande will likely harm our state’s border communities and turn immigrants seeking safety and a better life into the enemy,” he said. Many Republicans in Congress, taken by surprise, remained silent on the president’s comments, noting they fell short of a fully-developed plan. U.S. Rep. Ted Poe, a Houston-area Republican, who gave partial support to Trump’s idea, called instead for the National Guard to be deployed to the border upon the request of state governors. “Protecting American sovereignty and the American people is a constitutional requirement of the federal government,” Poe said. Staff Writers Peggy Fikac and Sig Christenson contributed to this report.
03.30.2018	U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-San Antonio, holds a town hall at La Trinidad United Methodist Church last year. He is among a few. Not talking with constituents says our representatives would rather talk to donors. We value political leaders who connect with the full range of people they serve. Unfortunately for the residents of Texas, most of our congressional representatives are throwing away a golden opportunity to provide such leadership. Thousands of Texans phone their members of Congress to express their opinions about the important issues facing our nation. But when it comes to in-person conversations, our members of Congress are pretty hard to find. They could be helping to bring us together by holding town halls and leading dialogues with their constituents on the important issues facing our country. Many of our political leaders used to do this. But now, too many are nowhere to be seen during congressional recesses. Texans deserve better. During the current session of Congress, the three members of Congress who represent me have held a grand total of zero open, in-person town halls. Only one person who represents the Austin area, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, has hosted a town hall that was open to anyone who wanted to attend. More than half of the 38 people who represent Texas in Congress have not held a single town hall since January of last year. This widespread failure to hold town halls suggests that our representatives do not care about our views, or perhaps that they see their donors rather than the voters in their districts as their primary constituency. Either possibility cheapens their office and their relationship to those whom they are elected to serve. Before every recess, I call the offices of my members of Congress, asking about upcoming town halls. Every time, I get the same vague promises — “none at this time, but we can put you on a mailing list to be told about future town halls” or “the schedulers are working on it” — and every time, there is no town hall. Even though I have no expectation that this pattern will change anytime soon, I keep calling to make a point. Elected officials and constituents need a chance to regularly meet, not simply to air opinions, but to put faces to real people who hold those opinions. Dialogue between people who disagree is not a zero-sum game that I lose if someone who disagrees with me is able to state his opinion in my presence. Nor is it for the fainthearted. Effective dialogue requires strength of mind from all parties, both the strength to listen calmly and respectfully to criticisms of our ideas and the confidence that both we and our beliefs can withstand the challenge of engaging with opposing views. I do this every day in my classrooms. Apparently, it is asking too much to expect my members of Congress to do the same. Fortunately, dialogue is not a war, a costly last resort for dealing with conflict where one side defeats the other once and for all. It is an ongoing process without which a healthy and vibrant community life cannot exist. Regardless of whether we change any minds, we often become more comfortable with opinions different from our own when we have had a chance to explain our views and hear conflicting ideas from people whom we may already know from the gym or church or the bus ride to work. If we have such conversations, our sense of community can embrace, rather than preclude, a range of different viewpoints. It is easy to understand why our representatives might hang back from holding town halls these days. No one likes to be yelled at, or to get bad press. And security is on everyone’s mind. But when our representatives use these legitimate concerns as a justification for not representing us, they send a terrible message: that refusing to talk is an acceptable way to handle a difficult conversation. Refusing to talk is no solution at all. It just makes everything worse. The purpose of listening to ideas with which we disagree is not to change minds. It is to open them. During the current recess, our members of Congress could be helping to foster open minds among Texans. Some are. But too many are not. Deborah Beck is an associate professor of classics at the University of Texas at Austin.
03.26.2018	These continuing massacres at schools, churches, entertainment venues and elsewhere must end — all students should be able to pursue an education without fearing that they could become additional victims. As a lifelong Texan, I grew up around guns and hunting. But a military style assault rifle is not for hunting, it is for killing other people. And tragically that has been the instrument of death in Parkland, Sutherland Springs, Las Vegas and elsewhere. We need to restore the ban on these weapons of war that once existed. The Parkland, Florida, massacre marks the 468th mass shooting since the beginning of 2017. In the past 5 months, three of the 10 deadliest shootings in U.S. history have occurred, including nearby at the church in Sutherland Springs. Time and again, short moments of silence in Congress are followed by long months of Republican inaction. Enough. We all pray for those that have lost loved ones, but we need more than the regular response of “thoughts and prayers.” These precious lives are being ignored by this Republican-controlled Congress. While I personally have never taken a dime from the National Rifle Association, too many officials are indebted to them — the NRA seems to control the White House, Congress and Texas Legislature lock, stock and barrel. Some lawmakers want to give up and, as a last resort, arm teachers. This is simply a distraction and a way for these elected officials to shirk their own responsibility to prevent gun violence. Teachers should not be focused on shooting people, they should be focused on teaching our young people to help fulfill their God-given potential. As the students from Parkland are urging, we need comprehensive background checks so that those with a history of violence or criminal wrongdoing cannot purchase a gun. Implementing reasonable gun safety measures does not violate the Second Amendment. Working with local organizations such as Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America and concerned citizens, I am committed to making our communities safer. Students inspire by standing up, organizing action and recognizing those who prioritize safety. I stand with fellow Longhorns and local allies who are staging peaceful protests. Seeing resilient UT students come together and lead the March for Our Lives event this past weekend at the State Capitol gives me hope for our country’s future. Some businesses are also leading. Dick’s Sporting Goods committed to stop selling assault-style rifles and high-capacity magazines and to require firearms purchasers to be at least 21 years old. Academy Sports and Outdoors and other stores should follow this example. No one should have to worry about the safety of their loved ones. While there is no panacea for gun violence, we can take positive steps to prevent more tragedies, more pain and more grief. Let’s work together to enact reasonable reforms so no one else suffers. And if this Congress will not act, we must get one that will. I want to hear from you. Please keep me advised of any federal matters on which I may be of assistance at Lloyd.Doggett@mail.house.gov.
03.25.2018	Demonstrators gather at the Texas state Capitol during the March For Our Lives rally on Saturday. See more photos from the march at mystatesman.com. AMANDA VOISARD / AMERICAN-STATESMAN Demonstrators gather at the Texas state Capitol during the March For Our Lives rally on Saturday. Hundreds of thousands marched in cities across the U.S. to call for action against gun violence. AMANDA VOISARD / AMERICAN-STATESMAN Alyssa Lampkin, 7, and others hold signs with the faces of victims of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting at the rally. AMANDA VOISARD / AMERICAN-STATESMAN Matthew McConaughey speaks during the rally Saturday. “I hope here that we can find a common ground” on the issue, he said. NICK WAGNER / AMERICAN-STATESMAN The March For Our Lives drew an estimated crowd of 20,000 in a rally that went from Austin City Hall to the Capitol on Saturday to demand stricter gun laws, with kids as young as elementary school age chanting “never again.” “This plague upon our nation must end now,” said Conor Heffernan, a high school senior from Austin’s Liberal Arts and Science Academy who helped organize the event. “We demand commonsense changes to our gun laws so students can study with the quiet reassurance that they are safe in their classrooms.” Sister marches were going on at the same time across the country. They were organized after the Feb. 14 shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., that left 17 people dead. Jack Haimowitz, a future University of Texas business student who survived the Parkland massacre, was among the first speakers Saturday afternoon, his hair dyed bright blond in honor of a friend he lost in the shooting. “On Feb. 14, I was shown the darkness with which our world has been permeated and tainted,” Haimowitz said. “I stand before you right here, right now to say we are the change we never knew we needed and that we have found the strength we never knew we were looking for,” Haimowitz said. A choir sang “Amazing Grace” before the crowd paused for a moment of silence to honor the lives lost to gun violence. “I am no longer surprised when a shooting happens,” said Sara Dorr, who traveled from San Antonio. “It’s a sad fact, but it’s a true fact.” A petition by March For Our Lives organizers asked lawmakers to ban the sale of assault weapons and high-capacity magazines and to close loopholes in background checks for gun purchases, which U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, state Sen. Kirk Watson and state Rep. Gina Hinojosa — all Austin Democrats — supported. “Regardless of your political background, your racial background, your race, your sex, we all want to see a safer world for our children while also protecting our rights,” UT student organizer Selina Eshraghi said. “I hope that that’s the message that gets out today.” Last semester, Eshraghi’s childhood best friend committed suicide using a gun. “There should have been so many different reasons why she wasn’t able to do what she did,” Eshraghi said. “And the amount of grief that I felt after that, I never wanted anyone else to have to experience that. That’s when I knew that I wanted to do something about it.” Eshraghi was one of several Austin students to help plan Saturday’s rally — a process that lasted most of March, amid mounting anxiety during a string of bombing attacks that put the city on edge. The threat spurred organizers to beef up security at the event, which remained heightened Saturday despite the bomber’s death Wednesday. “Earlier this week I know a lot of people were anxious about coming together in a public forum like this,” Austin Mayor Steve Adler said. “People worried that a crowd like this in the open would make us an invited target. But it is important to keep in mind that this is how a lot of kids feel about going to school after a school shooting.” There were a few counterprotesters, some openly carrying rifles, at the rally. In response to the event, U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas called for a crackdown on violent criminals, more resources for school safety and encouraging federal agencies to report convictions to the National Background Check Database. “The only effective way to stop these mass shootings is by targeting those who violate our laws, not by taking away the rights of law-abiding citizens,” he said. Actor and beloved Austinite Matthew McConaughey accepted an invitation to speak, which he said he did as a husband and father, not as a celebrity. “I hope here that we can find a common ground on what I see as a very commonsense issue,” he said, before signaling a poignant “all right, all right, all right.” Several parents accompanied their children to the rally. Cindy Bogard, a substitute teacher, went with her 15-year-old daughter, Audra, a student at the Liberal Arts and Science Academy. Audra Bogard said there have been several lockdowns at her school since the Parkland shooting. “There is this fear that it’s going to be my school next,” she said. “I remember in lockdowns thinking, ‘At least I am upstairs. If someone comes in they aren’t going to go immediately upstairs,’ planning how I would survive. And that’s not all right. I should be at school to learn, not to fear.”
03.23.2018	WASHINGTON — Congress approved a mammoth, $1.3 trillion spending bill Thursday without adding relief for hundreds of thousands of young immigrants, but denied President Donald Trump all the money and authority he wanted for a wall along the Southwest border. The legislation, which first passed the House 256-167 and then cleared the Senate 65-32, funds the federal government through Sept. 30 after a series of stopgap spending bills. The Senate needed to concur by midnight today to prevent a third partial government shutdown this year. The bill includes provisions that will be welcomed in Texas. With a two-year spending plan, Congress paved the way last month for the biggest increase in military spending in 15 years that includes $654.6 billion for the Pentagon this year, a $61.6 billion increase over last year. The spending includes $22.4 billion in military construction and repair that would chip away at a deferred maintenance backlog estimated at more than $100 billion. The bill has $4 billion to address the opioid crisis and $10 million for the U.S.-Mexico Border Water Infrastructure Program, which the Environmental Protection Agency in the Trump administration tried to scrap. The program, operated out of San Antonio by the North American Development Bank, finances sewage disposal and delivery of drinking water along the border. Texas Sen. John Cornyn was able to add his legislation tightening federal record-keeping related to the purchase of guns, an outgrowth of the Sutherland Springs church shooting in November. And San Antonio Republican Will Hurd and Laredo Democrat Henry Cuellar helped engineer a $15 million federal reimbursement for the Mission Reach Ecosystem Restoration and Recreation Project to stem San Antonio River flooding and restore natural habitat. The broad legislation also is noteworthy for what didn’t end up in its 2,232 pages. The bill, despite a GOP-led Congress and White House, did nothing to stem deficit spending, putting the government on a path for $2 trillion more in debt over the next decade. White House budget director Mick Mulvaney said Trump will sign the bill despite its shortcomings and concessions to Democrats. “Let’s cut right to the chase. Is the president going to sign the bill? The answer is yes,” he told reporters. Despite urging from some in their ranks and pressure from Democrats, Republicans declined to include a provision to protect Special Counsel Robert Mueller from firing before his investigation into Russian meddling in American elections winds up. And, after months of debates, Congress didn’t take steps to continue protections for some 700,000 young immigrants at risk now that the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program has passed its early March expiration date. The program remains alive only by federal court injunctions ordering the government to continue granting two-year work authorizations to those already in the program. The Senate also rejected a last-ditch effort Thursday by Illinois Democrat Dick Durbin to pass the Dream Act, long-debated legislation to provide protections for immigrants brought to the United States as children. Negotiations broke down, with Democrats demanding a permanent solution for DACA-aged immigrants rather than trading short-term protections — perhaps two or three years — in return for giving Trump $25 billion for the border wall. San Antonio Democrat Joaquin Castro, who voted against the spending plan, said: “This would have been a perfect opportunity to deal with the issue of Dreamers, to offer some relief and to make sure that they could remain in the United States and keep living their lives.” Castro, who sits on the House Intelligence Committee, said Congress also missed an opportunity to safeguard Mueller’s job amid signals from the White House that Trump is growing increasingly frustrated with the investigation. “Congress should have used this bill to protect the special counsel and allow him to conduct this investigation to its end,” Castro said. “It’s quite likely that President Trump will decide to arrange for his firing at some point.” Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a San Antonio Democrat who also voted no, ticked off his concerns: “No protection of any kind for Dreamers, only broken promises, while more money is wasted on the wall. No limitation on Trump actions to shut down Mueller’s independent investigation. No bipartisan measures to lower health insurance premiums by stabilizing markets. No meaningful gun safety action.” As recently as Tuesday, a House Republican involved in immigration policy said it was expected that Democrats would accept some sort of deal for the short term offered by Trump and Republicans. But according to those familiar with the talks, Democrats were buoyed in their stance by a growing belief that they will take control of the House after the November elections. That would put them in a substantially better position to bargain for a path to citizenship for so-called Dreamers and on immigration matters in general. A Democratic aide remarked that there was no reason to give Trump something permanent — long-term funding for the wall — in return for “a temporary patch.” Trump, who helped kill bipartisan Dreamer legislation in the Senate last month, fell well short in spending for the “big beautiful wall” he wants. The bill covers work on nearly 100 miles of border, including $1.57 billion for physical barriers, but much is authorized for “secondary” barriers where a wall already exists In the Rio Grande Valley, the bill allocates $445 million for “replacement of existing primary pedestrian fencing” and $196 million for primary fencing. Also: another $196 million for border security technology; and $38 million for “border barrier planning and design.” Cornyn said, “I personally believe that a lot of the money is going to be used to repair and replace existing fencing.” Despite getting less than the president wanted, the White House praised the 10 percent increase in funding for Immigrations and Customs Enforcement. Trump posted on Twitter: “Democrats refused to take care of DACA. Would have been so easy, but they just didn’t care. I had to fight for Military and start of Wall.” On the issue of gun violence, Cornyn noted the epidemic of school shootings, including another in southern Maryland this week that left the shooter dead and two students injured, one critically. He attracted 77 co-sponsors for his plan called the Fix NICS Act, referring to tightening the National Instant Criminal Background Check system with better enforcement and incentives for states to participate. Had the system worked as designed, Devin Kelley might have been prevented by a licensed dealer from buying the rifle that he used to kill 26 people in Sutherland Springs. “I really feel like this is keeping faith with the folks in Sutherland Springs and other families who potentially could lose loved ones in the future due to a flaw in the background system,” Cornyn told reporters. Durbin referred to the legislation as a step in the right direction, but observed that Congress is unlikely to more aggressively address gun violence any time soon with a requirement of universal background checks and bans on high-capacity magazine clips. “Is that it? Is that the end on national gun safety for another five, six or eight years?” he asked. For the Mission Reach project dealing with ecology and flooding along the San Antonio River, Bexar County loaned the Army Corps of Engineers money that is slowly being paid back — $15 million in the new installment. Hurd said in a statement that the Mission Reach has yielded “tremendous cultural and economic gains, not just for the South Side but for all of San Antonio by connecting all five UNESCO-recognized Spanish Missions with hike and bike trails, and attracting millions in private-sector development.”
03.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, voted against the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus. Rep. Doggett said: “This Omnibus spending bill leaves the station without key priorities onboard. No protection of any kind for Dreamers, only broken promises, while more money is wasted on the wall. No limitation on Trump actions to shut down Mueller’s independent investigation. No bipartisan measures to lower health insurance premiums by stabilizing markets. No meaningful gun safety action.” ###
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, challenged President Trump’s unwillingness to meaningfully sanction Russia in a Ways and Means hearing questioning Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross. You can watch his full remarks here, and find the full transcript below. Rep. Doggett added: “Faced again with an opportunity to target Russia with significant sanctions, Trump again ‘choked.’ China is hit with $50 billion in penalties for theft of intellectual property, but no sanctions for Russia’s attempted theft of our democracy. Not even a tweet or an unkind word, only congratulations to a tyrant. The weak approach taken with these aluminum and steel tariffs is consistent with his prior Russia coddling.” President Trump rejected a targeted approach, proposed by the Department of Commerce, that would have targeted Russian steel and aluminum with almost three times higher tariffs than U.S. allies. Russia’s sole aluminum company, the second largest in the world, is led by Putin confidant and former client of Paul Manafort, Oleg Deripaska. Rep. Lloyd Doggett Remarks as Delivered Ways and Means Hearing March 22, 2018 Congressman Doggett: Thank you very much Mr. Secretary. If I understand correctly, you presented President Trump with three alternatives to implement this policy on aluminum. One of them was global. One of them was targeted. Is that correct? Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross: Yes that is. The targeted one encompassed just China, Hong Kong, Russia, Venezuela, Vietnam. Doggett: And if that alternative had been adopted, Russia, for example, would be paying three times as much tariff as it will under the approach that was accepted. Ross: Yes, the targeted approach, had it been adopted in its original form would have put very high tariffs on a very small number of countries. Doggett: And that really goes to a broader concern that I have that would have permitted other countries, our allies, to maintain the quota of aluminum that they had last year. Ross: Yes sir. Doggett: Instead, President Trump rejected that alternative that would have imposed higher tariffs on Russia, and the other four countries. Russia, of course, has the second largest aluminum producer in the world. That is headed by someone who’s repeatedly been denied visas to come the United States because of his connection to criminal organizations. And I just have to frankly, and respectfully, question your comment that the President made clear that his first priority is to keep America safe. I don’t see anything indicating that he is particularly interested in keeping our country safe from Russia. Indeed, I have to concur with the comments that I’m sure you’re familiar with, that Barry McCaffrey, a decorated four star United States Army general, combat veteran from Vietnam, recipient of three Purple Hearts, said in that few days: “Reluctantly, I have concluded that President Trump is a serious threat to U.S. national security. He is refusing to protect vital U.S. interest from active Russia attacks. It is apparent that he is for some unknown reason under the sway of Mr. Putin.” Now I know you don’t agree with that but we’ve had, since he made that very powerful statement from someone who is clearly an American patriot, we’ve had President Trump respond to the attempted murder in Great Britain and to the continued Russian assault on our election system, by calling and congratulating President Putin. He has insulted people all over this country, but one he’s never had one bad word about, a questioning word about, is Vladimir Putin. And it appears that Mr. McCaffrey, General McCaffrey, has summed it up rather well. And that if anything, the approach taken with these aluminum and steel tariffs is very consistent with the approach of always coddling Russia and never calling it out for its attempt to steal our democracy. ###
03.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, questioned U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer in a Ways and Means hearing on the public health impacts of current NAFTA negotiations. You can watch his full remarks here, and find the full transcript below. Rep. Doggett said, in part: “Trade agreements have long been abused by private interests, like Big Tobacco and Big Pharma to subvert public health. Now, the obesity lobby is trying to do the same thing with NAFTA. Our children’s health should come before those who scheme to exploit them for profit. I hope Trade Ambassador Lighthizer will stand firm for protection of American investors, but not a mechanism that allows foreign investors to invade our sovereignty, and to subvert and undermine health and safety regulation.” Congressman Doggett referenced a New York Times story, “In Nafta Talks, U.S. Tries to Limit Junk Food Warning Labels,” and questions Trade Ambassador Lighthizer on a provision that would limit the ability of any NAFTA member to require consumer warnings on foods that may contribute to the obesity epidemic. This includes any warning symbol, shape, or color that “inappropriately denotes that a hazard exists from consumption of the food or nonalcoholic beverages.” NAFTA was signed in the district Rep. Doggett represents, in San Antonio, Texas. Remarks as Delivered Ways and Means Hearing March 21, 2018 Congressman Doggett: “Thank you, Mr. Chairman; thank you, Ambassador. NAFTA is very important in Texas. It was signed in the district that I currently represent in San Antonio, and I sincerely appreciate your efforts to significantly improve it, learning from the experience of the last two decades. “Though I personally continue to support more trade through NAFTA and around the world, one of the major reasons that I have voted against a number of previous trade agreements is the way they have been subverted by various special interests to serve their own selfish agenda, to the detriment of our public health. “Big tobacco, big pharma, have been examples of that in the past. And I’m very troubled by this morning’s New York Times front page story that advises that your office is currently involved in NAFTA negotiations to serve the obesity lobby. “You’re aware, Ambassador, that the Center for Disease Control reports that almost a third of American youth between the ages of 17 and 24 are too overweight to serve in our military, that the Defense Department reports that 1 in 13 American service members is clinically obese. “Now, I know there is no panacea for this problem, and I don’t endorse every action taken by a foreign government, but I think that it is wrong to limit the power of American states and local governments as well as foreign governments, to address this challenge. “I want to draw your attention specifically to that Times article, in which it is said that ‘the Trump administration’s proposal and the corporate pressure behind it hold the potential to handcuff public health officials for the decades.’ ‘The American provision seeks to prevent any warning symbol, shape, or color’ that, quote, and this is apparently drawn from the documents that you’re advancing, ‘inappropriately denotes that a hazard exists from consumption of the food or non-alcoholic beverages.’ “Is it correct that your office is urging adoption of that provision as a part of the NAFTA renegotiation? U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer: Well, first of all, I’d like to put my office on the record as being against obesity. Congressman Doggett: I’m glad to hear it. The question is whether you’re against things that prevent us from addressing that problem, and if you’re supporting this provision, you’re certainly not. U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer: Well, I guess I would say, Congressman, that for us, it is slightly more nuanced than that. Congressman Doggett: Well, just answer first – is this a provision that’s being advanced by the American government? U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer: The idea is, yes, the idea of putting limits on the ability of countries to put warning labels or symbols on products is something that we are concerned about. Congressman Doggett: So, it is accurate that this provision, the language that I just read to you, is being advanced by our negotiators? U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer: I don’t – I mean, I can’t comment on the exact language in the statute, I don’t, in the article, I don’t have the article in front of me. But, the issue is one that we’re concerned about. The other side – your point is an excellent one, and I agree with it. On the other side of it, there are lots of examples of countries that are using this loophole to basically create a protectionist environment. So we have, that’s why I said it’s more nuanced from our point of view. We have companies that come in with products that literally, they’re on shelves with no wrapping on them. There’s a kind of an extreme between one way and another. This can be used as protectionism, to the extent it’s used as protectionism, we have to be very careful of it. Congressman Doggett: We certainly do, and I welcome any further written answer you might have. I want to turn to investor state, because there’s one that I applaud your answer to the Chairman. When he asked the question, ‘Who’s got our back?,’ the corporate lobby basically wants it to be three lawyers operating behind closed doors as much as possible. We know from the Bilcon vs. Canada case that corporate interests went around Canadian law with rights they couldn’t have there, and they’re only asking for half a billion dollars now because they were denied the right to expand a quarry. I hope you will stand firm for protection of American investors, but not a mechanism that allows them to invade our sovereignty, as you correctly noted, and to subvert and undermine health and safety regulation. There is no reason foreigners should be given more rights than American citizens, and American companies have, and that is what is happening through the investor state mechanism. You are right to be skeptical on it, and I hope you will continue to urge that position, because if we don’t see some genuine reform of the investor state mechanism, renegotiation of NAFTA will not have met the objectives that you set out initially. Thank you, and I look forward to your further response about this very troubling issue on obesity.” ###
03.19.2018	Highlights Salvadoran woman “is adjusting to her new environment and recovering from trauma,” says Grassroots Leadership. Laura Monterrosa has said she was sexually assaulted at an immigration detention center in Williamson County. A Salvadoran woman seeking asylum who has said that a guard groped her inside a Williamson County immigration detention facility has been released, a group supporting her said Saturday. Laura Monterrosa was released from the T. Don Hutto detention facility in Taylor on Friday night, the group Grassroots Leadership said. It did not say where Monterrosa is now living. “Laura is adjusting to her new environment and recovering from the trauma she has experienced,” Grassroots Leadership said in a statement. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials could not be reached for comment Saturday. Monterrosa entered the United States in May and sought asylum to escape violence in her home country of El Salvador. The immigration court system denied her request, and she has appealed. Monterrosa has said in a letter that a female guard at the immigration detention facility “harassed me, telling me threatening words and forcing me to have unwanted relations with her.” The Williamson County sheriff’s office has said it opened an investigation in connection to Monterrosa’s report. U.S. Reps. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, and Joaquin Castro, D-San Antonio, wrote to immigration officials last month asking them to “direct an investigation of ICE’s handling of sexual assault cases in Texas immigration detention facilities.” In total, 44 other members of Congress co-signed the letter, according to Doggett’s office. The letter said that five detainees also have reported sexual assault at the T. Don Hutto center from 2007 to 2011. According to the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund, the Homeland Security Department agreed Friday to release Monterrosa under deferred action, which will protect her temporarily from deportation. “For months we’ve been seeking justice for Laura. But this welcome progress is about more than one individual,” Doggett said in a statement Saturday. “Deporting her would not only have prematurely rejected her asylum claim but also would have impaired an ongoing FBI civil rights investigation.” “Despite facing retaliation inside, including solitary confinement, Laura showed incredible courage in speaking out to tell her story,” Claudia Muñoz, immigration programs director at Grassroots Leadership, said in a statement Saturday. “This is a huge victory for Laura, for all the women who have organized and spoken out, and for the community that came to their support.” Immigration advocates said Monterrosa attempted suicide in January after being denied treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder and depression and continued to complain about mental health problems. Attorneys with the legal defense fund on March 3 filed a federal lawsuit seeking Monterrosa’s immediate release from the detention center, saying she had been unconstitutionally denied medical care, according to a petition. After a court hearing this week, ICE agreed Tuesday to pay for and take her to a therapist for mental health treatment.
03.16.2018	
03.13.2018	Authorities investigate an explosion at a home on Galindo Street in Southeast Austin on Monday. The incident was the second reported explosion on Monday and the third in two weeks. AUSTIN FIRE DEPARTMENT Authorities investigate at the scene in East Austin after a teenager was killed and a woman was injured in the second Austin package explosion on Monday. RICARDO B. BRAZZIELL/AMERICAN-STATESMAN Deadly package explosions in Austin 1. March 2: Anthony Stephan House, 39, killed in 1100 block of Haverford Drive. 2. Monday, 6:44 a.m.: 17-year-old killed, woman in her 40s injured in 4800 block of Oldfort Hill Drive. 3. Monday, 11:50 a.m.: 75-year-old woman critically injured in 6700 block of Galindo Street. Federal authorities have joined Austin police in investigating a mysterious string of three bombings in 10 days that have left two people dead and three wounded after opening packages left at their doors. The package bomb attacks come as nearly half a million visitors converge for South by Southwest, a time when national attention is usually focused on Austin for celebrity sightings and other entertainment news. Two blasts hours apart Monday intensified the mystery of who is targeting residents in neighborhoods that stretch from the city’s northern borders to Southeast Austin — and why. Interim Police Chief Brian Manley said investigators think the incidents are related but have no motive. He said officials are trying to learn what connections the victims have, if any. The youngest victim, a 17-year-old, was killed Monday; the oldest was a 75-year-old woman who was hospitalized after a bomb exploded at her house. Manley said multiple people live in the homes where the “boxlike” explosive devices were left at front doors. “We will leave no stone unturned,” Manley, who stood with Mayor Steve Adler and federal and local law enforcement officers, said from the scene of the third incident. “We will not allow this to go on in our city.” The attacks prompted local and federal officials to plead for Austin residents to refrain from opening packages that they do not recognize or expect or that appear suspicious. They said additional resources are available to help determine whether such packages are safe. “I want the public to be aware and cautious,” Manley told reporters. “Until we find who committed this act, it is appropriate for residents to be concerned.” In a matter of a hours Monday, authorities put together a task force of Austin police, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. Manley said additional officials from Washington were en route to Austin. The Texas Department of Public Safety is involved as well, and a $15,000 reward has been offered. In a statement Monday, Gov. Greg Abbott offered condolences to the victims. “The state of Texas will provide any resources necessary to ensure the safety of our citizens and quickly bring those guilty to justice,” he said. The first victim Anthony Stephan House died March 2 after police found him at home in the 1100 block of Haverford Drive about 6:55 a.m. First responders took the 39-year-old to a hospital, but he died of his injuries shortly after the blast. His death remained under investigation at the time of the two blasts Monday, but officials had previously said that they did not think the public was at risk. After the second explosion, Manley said that “we do see similarities” between the incidents, but he declined to elaborate. Between the second and third attacks, Manley acknowledged that both victims were black men and raised the possibility that the attacks might be race-related. He also repeated that detectives are unsure of the bomber’s motivation. Author itie s have not released any details about the devices that caused the explosions or named anyone who might have been involved. On Monday, the front door of House’s home had been replaced by plywood and neighbors said they were still shocked that something like that happened in their otherwise quiet neighborhood. They said House had a wife and a young daughter they sometimes saw together. Sunil Verma heard the boom and remains jittery. “We get packages every day,” he said. “I told my wife not to open any packages.” House was a senior project manager with Texas Quarries, a Cedar Park-based limestone fabricator, according to his LinkedIn page. He previously worked as a hedge fund manager and is listed as the president of House Capital Management LLC in Texas secretary of state’s of›ice documents, though his LinkedIn page indicates the company has been sold to a private investment group. In 2016, House ›iled for Chapter 7 bankruptcy in federal court, claiming between $100,001 and $500,000 in debt. According to court filings, House had a 6-year-old daughter at the time of his bankruptcy. According to his LinkedIn page, House earned a bachelor’s degree in business administration, finance and financial management services from Texas State University in 2008. More recently, he attended Austin Community College in 2017, studying engineering, according to public records. Detectives initially classified House’s death as a homicide, then stepped away from that classification and labeled it suspicious. On Monday, Manley said they again had classified it as a homicide. House’s family has declined to comment. Device wasn’t mailed Police learned of the second incident about 6:45 a.m. Monday when residents in the 4800 block of Oldfort Hill Drive, near East Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard and Springdale Road, began calling authorities to report an explosion. Manley said a preliminary investigation found that a 17-year-old went outside the home and found a package near the front door. The victim, whose name was not released by police, opened it, and the device exploded, killing him and injuring a woman in her 40s. LaVonne Mason, co - founder of the Austin Area Urban League, told the Washington Post on Monday that her grandson was the 17-year-old victim killed Monday. Manley said explosives experts “ have pieced together what the construction of the explosive device was” but said he was not sharing that information with the public. He added that of›icials have determined that the device was not sent through the U.S. Postal Service and said he did not believe it was delivered by a professional carrier, such as UPS or FedEx. While still at the home on Oldfort Hill Drive, officials were alerted to the second case Monday in the 6700 block of Galindo Street. Manley said that a package detonated as the woman attempted to remove it from her porch. Relatives told the Post that the woman injured in the third blast was Esperanza Herrera. They also said her mother, Maria Moreno, was hurt. Yasmin Navarro lives in the house across the street from the one where the explosion happened. “I’m scared for everyone’s safety,” she told the American-Statesman in Spanish. “It hurts me a lot that she’s hurt, or that something else is going to happen.” Medics said one victim in the third blast was an elderly Hispanic woman who had potentially life-threatening injuries. In a statement, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, said, “Austin is no place for hate. Our local and federal law enforcement officials are taking every reasonable step to investigate these cowardly acts of violence.” Seeking connections Jeff Key, a former explosives specialist for ATF, said investigators will be focusing on tracing the component parts of the devices and searching for connections between the victims. “Typically, bombers figure out to build a bomb that works. They probably tested it in some manner, and once they figure out how to build it that way, they build it that way over and over,” said Key, who co-owns a North Carolina-based private investigations firm that specializes in fires and explosives. “Anytime you have an explosion or a fire, most people would assume that the evidence is either burned up or destroyed, but a surprising amount of evidence can be located,” Key said. “The ATF explosive specialists and their laboratory are quite adept at recovering evidence that frequently can lead to determining the components of the device.” Key said the bomber appears to have successfully developed a “triggering mechanism.” “There’s going to be a triggering mechanism of some type. Whether it’s movement or some other way of doing it, there’s a triggering mechanism. And apparently that triggering mechanism functioned in all three cases,” he said. Without going into detail, police said Monday that assembling the devices and their triggering mechanisms probably required a certain level of skill and that the explosives involved are powerful. Key said that while there are many ways to build bombs with easy-to-obtain chemicals and materials, “high explosives,” such as dynamite, are harder to come by. “High explosives are supposed to be stored properly and securely, so it would be a little more difficult to obtain high explosives — unless you’re in a job that gives you access to them,” Key said.
03.09.2018	AHN YOUNG-JOON People watch a TV screen showing images of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, right, South Korean President Moon Jae-in, center, and U.S. President Donald Trump at the Seoul Railway Station in Seoul, South Korea, Wednesday, March 7, 2018. After years of refusal, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is willing to discuss the fate of his atomic arsenal with the United States and has expressed a readiness to suspend nuclear and missile tests during such talks, a senior South Korean official said Tuesday. Korean letters on the screen read: “Thawing Korean Peninsula.” (AP Photo/Ahn Young-joon) Highlights Lawmakers welcome the move but remain skeptical about North Korea. North Korea may be succumbing to economic sanctions. President Donald Trump surprised the world Thursday by accepting North Korea leader Kim Jong Un’s invitation to meet and discuss the Asian nation’s nuclear program. Members of Congress from Central Texas reacted to historic announcement. Here’s what they said: • “Diplomacy as a means to a peaceful solution to the North Korean nuclear crisis is welcomed and should be supported. But the reality is North Korea’s track record of deceit is not lost on Congress nor this administration. As such, any talk of peace must translate into an end of the Kim regime’s destabilizing activities, and denuclearization, coupled with strong international verification to ensure the regime is acting in good faith. In the meantime, President Trump and his administration must stand firm in not providing an ounce of economic relief to North Korea until it has proven themselves trustworthy, and that their diplomatic overtures are genuine and will result in a stable, denuclearized peninsula.” — U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Austin • “May meetings are better than May missiles. Most any step that slows the march to a catastrophic war represents a positive development. But the prospect of the ever vacillating, uninformed, impulsive, and easily flattered Donald Trump negotiating anything important is a little scary. So far he has made a giant concession to North Korea in elevating its status to international equal with this presidential summit, rewarding North Korea’s nuclear program, while getting little in return. Many uncertainties surround this coming together of two different, authoritarian figures with giant egos. Like any other Trump endeavor, let’s keep our expectations reasonable, hoping for a breakthrough instead of a breakdown that takes us even closer to war.” — U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin • “North Korea’s decision to engage in direct talks is evidence of an effective foreign policy. President Trump’s enforcement of congressionally approved sanctions is providing an opportunity for a potential diplomatic easing of tensions in the region.” — U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio “Despite the media’s portrayal of President Trump, he has once again shown his leadership in making the world safer by bringing Kim Jong Un to the table. The North Korean nuclear threat has been a concern for the United States for many years. I am glad Kim Jong Un is now committed to denuclearization and pledges to stop nuclear missile tests. I am confident President Trump’s approach to dealing with this crisis will continue to work until North Korea is completely denuclearized.” — U.S. Rep. Blake Farenthold, R-Corpus Christi
03.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, reacted to the announcement by South Korea’s National Security Adviser that President Trump has accepted an invitation by North Korean Leader Kim Jong Un to meet “by May.” Rep. Doggett said: “May meetings are better than May missiles. Most any step that slows the march to a catastrophic war represents a positive development. But the prospect of the ever vacillating, uninformed, impulsive, and easily flattered Donald Trump negotiating anything important is a little scary. So far he has made a giant concession to North Korea in elevating its status to international equal with this presidential summit, rewarding North Korea’s nuclear program, while getting little in return. Many uncertainties surround this coming together of two different, authoritarian figures with giant egos. Like any other Trump endeavor, let’s keep our expectations reasonable, hoping for a breakthrough instead of a breakdown that takes us even closer to war.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett | Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett
03.05.2018	In what’s hailed as a landmark addition to the Southside, Confluence Park formally opened Saturday with a ceremony where city, county and federal officials traded congratulatory remarks with San Antonio River Foundation authorities beneath what’s lauded as a one-of-a-kind pavilion. The $13.7 million park that features educational facilities, elaborate landscaping and restrooms overlooking the convergence of San Antonio River and San Pedro Creek was funded with $2.1 million from San Antonio, $1.7 million from Bexar County and nearly $10 million in private donations. Several years of planning preceded the start of work in 2016 to turn a former CPS storage yard off Mitchell Street into a gateway to the Historic Mission Reach section of the river where area students can participate in hands-on learning about water resources, ecosystems and more. “This is a game-changer for the Southside,” said Rev. David Garcia, pastor of the nearby Mission Concepcion, of the latest riverside addition, which also offers a sorely needed public meeting space. “It’s a beautiful park, and I like that it’s for educational purposes.” He was among a crowd topping 250 that gathered Saturday for the dedication ceremony, originally set for Jan. 17, but postponed due to cold weather. “Confluence Park is here to tell the story of why this place matters. Why water and resource education matters. Why telling stories to our children matters,” said Robert Amerman, executive director of the river foundation, which spearheaded the project. San Antonio River Authority General Manager Suzanne Scott said the agency’s education staff, which tutored more than 16,000 area students last year, long dreamed of having a learning venue like the park to teach about local fauna, watershed management and the importance of conservation. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-San Antonio, was among those riffing on the park’s name Saturday. “It reflects the confluence — the coming together — of public and private partners, the confluence of art and green space, of educational opportunity and environmental sensitivity,” he said. County Judge Nelson Wolff called the park “an extraordinary accomplishment” in its own right, but only the latest completed component among more than $200 million in upgrades planned along waterways south of downtown. A May 5 opening is planned for the first section of newly restored San Pedro Creek, he noted. The centerpiece of the park is the BHP Pavilion designed by Andrew Kudless of Matsys Design of California, which features standing concrete forms that catch and channel rainwater into a 100,000-gallon buried storage tank while also providing shade over a 7,000-square-foot area. Describing the structure as “infundibuliform” (funnel-shaped), SARF Project Manager Stuart Allen applauded its designer and builders for “making one million pounds of concrete and steel look light and elegant and graceful.” It was named for BHP Petroleum, which provided the largest private donation for the park, of $2.4 million. The BHP grant served as a spark to accelerate fundraising, said Mayor Ron Nirenberg, who attributed the project’s success to “a confluence of politicians” getting on board at the city and county level. “The South Side is rising again,” he said, citing other ongoing projects. “The center of gravity of San Antonio is shifting ever-so-slightly southward.” Jesse Cuellar, 11, was among the locals almost as excited as the politicians to see the park finally open. “I think it’s cool,” said Cuellar, who’s eager to use park access for biking and kayaking. His step dad, Art Gomez, added,“It’s right here in our back yard. Now we don’t have to go anywhere.” Gomez’s sister, Annavin January, said the park offers another attraction to Mission Trail tourists. “Every day during construction we’d walk by,” said January. “We were so anticipating it.”
03.01.2018	New legislation introduced today, the No Tax Breaks for Outsourcing Act, by Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) and Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) would help repair the damage to the international tax code wrought by the new Trump-GOP tax lawand move toward a system where U.S. corporations can’t reap tax benefits from shifting jobs and profits offshore. One of the biggest problems with the United States tax code is that it encourages multinational corporations to artificially shift their profits offshore, or even shift real investments and jobs offshore, to avoid paying taxes. A real tax reform would have put an end to tax avoidance and the tax incentives for offshoring, but the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) made both of these problems worse. Under the previous tax system, companies were required to pay the full 35 percent corporate tax rate (minus any foreign taxes paid) on their offshore profits. The problem was that companies could defer paying U.S. taxes on their offshore profits indefinitely as long as they technically held them in their offshore subsidiaries. This created a huge incentive for companies to use accounting gimmicks to make their profits appear to be earned in offshore tax havens, where they could hold them on paper for years without paying taxes. ITEP’s most recent research found that companies held more than $2.6 trillion in untaxed profits offshore, which allowed them to avoid over $750 billion in taxes. Professor Kimberley Clausing estimated that the ongoing cost of offshore tax avoidance exceeded $100 billion each year. How the Trump-GOP Tax Law Will Make Offshore Tax Dodging Even Worse The TCJA radically changed the international tax system — for the worse. Excluding the one-time revenue from a transition tax on accumulated earnings, the new law’s international provisions will cost $14 billion over the next 10 years, on top of the billions already being lost to tax avoidance under the old system. The TCJA replaced the rule allowing companies to defer paying taxes on their offshore earnings with provisions that, in some cases, will provide even bigger breaks for corporations that shift profits offshore. These provisions give offshore earnings two significant tax breaks compared to domestic earnings. First, the new law gives companies an annual deduction on their offshore earnings worth 10 percent of their offshore tangible assets (such as factories). This means that companies with $100 million worth of tangible assets offshore would pay nothing in U.S. taxes on the first $10 million worth of profits they earn. Because the size of the deduction depends on the amount invested offshore, this new break creates a unique incentive for companies to move real investments offshore to boost the size of their deduction. Second, the income earned above 10 percent of the company’s tangible assets is effectively subject to only a 10.5 percent tax rate, since the new law allows companies to deduct half of their offshore income above the threshold from taxation. The overall effect of these two new breaks is that companies’ offshore earnings will at most be taxed at half the rate on domestic earnings, with many companies paying nothing in U.S. taxes on these earnings. How the Doggett-Whitehouse Bill Will Stop Offshore Tax Dodging The No Tax Breaks for Outsourcing Act takes direct aim at corporate offshore tax dodging by eliminating these special deductions for offshore earnings. The bill would require companies to immediately pay the same 21 percent tax rate on their offshore earnings (minus foreign tax credits) that they must pay on their domestic earnings. By equalizing the domestic and offshore tax rates, the bill would end the tax incentive to shift jobs and profits offshore. To ensure that companies do not pursue alternative avenues of tax avoidance, the legislation also takes aim at the infamous corporate inversion loophole by tightening the definition of a foreign corporation. The bill would prevent a company from becoming foreign through a merger if it continues to be managed and controlled in the United States or if a majority of the U.S. company’s shareholders own the resulting company. The bill also targets one of the major incentives for inversions by restricting the ability of multinational companies to reduce their taxes by deducting an excessive amount of interest payments. The End the Outsourcing Tax Break Act represents a crucial first step in undoing the damage of the Trump-GOP bill and moving the United States to a system where companies will finally pay their fair share in taxes.
02.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, introduced the No Tax Breaks for Outsourcing Act with Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI). The legislation would level the playing field for domestic companies by ensuring that multinationals pay the same tax rate on profits earned abroad as they do in the United States, ending new tax incentives created by President Trump’s tax law to outsources jobs and shift profits offshore. Rep. Lloyd Doggett said: “While Trump talks about protecting American jobs, his tax law offers powerful new incentives to outsource even more American jobs. Trump’s law encourages multinationals to invest abroad instead of here at home, putting America last. It is flat wrong that the corner pharmacy should have to pay a tax rate that is substantially higher on its operations than Pfizer does on its offshore operations. The No Tax Breaks for Outsourcing Act would treat both the same. It levels the playing field for small and domestic-oriented businesses by ending special tax breaks for offshore investments.” Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse said: “President Trump promised the American people he’d end the march of jobs and profits overseas. Instead, he’s doled out massive new tax breaks that reward offshoring. Our bill would prohibit multinational corporations from exploiting the loopholes opened by President Trump’s so-called ‘tax reform.’ Those big corporations have profited long enough from special tax breaks – now we need a tax code that’s fair to small businesses and middle-class workers.” This legislation has been endorsed by: AFL-CIO; Alliance for Retired Americans; Amalgamated Transit Union, American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE); American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME); American Postal Workers Union; Americans for Democratic Action (ADA); Americans for Tax Fairness; American Family Voices; Campaign for America’s Future; Center for Popular Democracy; Coalition on Human Needs; Color of Change; Communication Workers of America (CWA); CREDO; Daily Kos; Economic Policy Institute Policy Center; Financial Accountability and Corporate Transparency (FACT) Coalition; Franciscan Action Network; Indivisible; Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy (ITEP); International Assoc. of Machinists & Aerospace Workers; International Brotherhood of Boilermakers; International Brotherhood of Teamsters; International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers; International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW); Jobs with Justice; Jubilee USA Network; Main Street Alliance; MoveOn.org; MomsRising; National Association of Social Workers; National Education Association; National Organization for Women; National Employment Law Project; NETWORK Lobby for Catholic Social Justice; Other98; Oxfam America; Patriotic Millionaires; People Demanding Action; Progressive Congress Action Fund; Public Citizen; Responsible Wealth; Small Business Majority; Social Security Works; Take On Wall Street; United for a Fair Economy; United Steelworkers; Union Veterans Council; Working America, and Working Families Party. The No Tax Breaks for Outsourcing Act would end discrimination against companies with mostly domestic sales by not advantaging multinationals with large tax breaks on profits earned abroad. The bill would: Equalize the tax rate on profits earned abroad to the tax rate on profits earned here at home. The new tax law allows companies to pay half of the statutory corporate tax rate on profits earned abroad, and for many it may be nothing or next to nothing. This legislation would end the preferential tax rate for offshore profits and ensure companies pay the same rate abroad as they do in the U.S. This leveling of the playing field is achieved by eliminating the deductions for “global intangible low-tax income” and “foreign-derived intangible income.” Repeal the 10 percent tax exemption on profits earned from certain investments made overseas. In addition to the half-off tax rate on profits earned abroad, the new law exempts from tax entirely a 10 percent return on tangible investments made overseas, such as plants and equipment. This legislation would eliminate the zero-tax rate on certain investments made overseas. Treat “foreign” corporations that are managed and controlled in the U.S. as domestic corporations. This provision would address the “Ugland House problem” of U.S. corporations nominally organizing in tax havens. Ugland House in the Cayman Islands is the five-story legal home of over 18,000 companies, many of them really American companies in disguise. This section would treat corporations worth $50 million or more and managed and controlled within the U.S. as the U.S. entities they in fact are, and subject them to the same tax as other U.S. taxpayers. Crack down on inversions by tightening the definition of expatriated entity. This provision would discourage corporations from renouncing their U.S. citizenship. It would deem any merger between a U.S. company and a smaller foreign firm to be a U.S. taxpayer, no matter where in the world the new company claims to be headquartered. Specifically, the combined company would continue to be treated as a domestic corporation if the historic shareholders of the U.S. company own more than 50 percent of the new entity. If the new entity is managed and controlled in the U.S. and continues to conduct significant business here, it would continue to be treated as a domestic company regardless of the percentage ownership. Combat earnings stripping by restricting the deduction for interest expense for multinational enterprises with excess domestic indebtedness. Multinationals often shrink their U.S. tax bills by paying interest to their foreign-based subsidiaries. Recognizing this injustice, the House Republican tax bill originally prohibited it as President Obama had recommended in his proposed Budget. Deductible interest should be limited based on the U.S. subsidiary’s proportionate share of the multinational’s net interest expense, reflecting the underlying business reality. Unable to withstand lobbying pressure, Republicans abandoned this correction. This bill would restore it. Eliminate tax break for foreign oil and gas extraction income. Big oil gets even more special help than other multinationals. Oil and gas extraction income earned abroad gets an even further break on the already half-off rate other industries pay on their offshore profits. This provision would eliminate this special tax break for big oil companies. Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett |Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
02.27.2018	Two U.S. congressmen representing Texas called for an “expedited audit” of the T. Don Hutto immigrant detention center in Taylor, citing a female asylum seeker’s allegations that she was sexually assaulted by a guard and similar allegations from two other detainees. U.S. Reps. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, and Joaquin Castro, D-San Antonio, wrote to Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials asking them to “direct an investigation of ICE’s handling of sexual assault cases in Texas immigration detention facilities.” Additionally, five detainees reported sexual assault at the T. Don Hutto center from 2007 to 2011, the letter says. In total, 44 other members of Congress co-signed the letter, according to Doggett’s office. Quoting Department of Homeland Security standards, the letter points out that DHS “may require an expedited audit if the agency has reason to believe that a particular facility may be experiencing problems relating to sexual abuse.” “We believe Hutto meets this standard,” Doggett and Castro wrote. Detainee Laura Monterrosa has said that a female guard "harassed me, telling me threatening words and forcing me to have unwanted relations with her, which I did not want, but I had to do what she wanted," Monterrosa has said in a letter. "She looked for or took advantage of every moment she could to touch my breasts or my legs.” Monterrosa entered the U.S. in May and sought asylum to escape violence in her home country of El Salvador. The immigration court system denied her request and she has appealed. The Williamson County sheriff's office has said it opened an investigation in connection to Monterrosa's report. ICE officials said they do not comment on pending investigations. ICE officials said they have offered to transfer Monterrosa to another facility, but she declined the offer.
02.26.2018	Seeking Accountability for Detention Center Sexual Assault & Abuse WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (TX-35) and Congressman Joaquin Castro (TX-20) urged the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Agency to take immediate action to eradicate sexual assault and abuse in its detention centers. Their letter, which was joined by over 40 colleagues, requests ICE officials to direct an investigation into its handling of sexual assault cases in Texas immigration detention facilities, share the results of this investigation with Members of Congress, and conduct an expedited Prison Rape Elimination Act (PREA) audit of T. Don Hutto Residential Center in Taylor, Texas, where Laura Monterrosa, a 23-year old asylum seeker from El Salvador allegedly faced retaliation from ICE guards after filing a complaint of repeated sexual abuse by a female guard. The full letter can be found here and included below. “Complaints of sexual abuse by guards and subsequent retaliation by ICE following victim grievances are disturbing and unacceptable,” said Congressman Doggett. “Many of these victims are refugees seeking asylum, fleeing prior traumatic experiences. Basic human decency requires that they not be abused here. Our questions are designed to ensure some accountability for these disturbing allegations of sexual and physical abuse. ICE should respect and protect immigrants’ human rights.” “Allegations of sexual harassment at ICE and the ways in which the agency refuses to deal with it are deeply disturbing. Sexual harassment, assault, and abuse of any magnitude is unacceptable, especially for vulnerable immigrants who, oftentimes, are already fleeing traumatic circumstances,” said Congressman Castro. “That’s why it is imperative to investigate the handling of these complaints and audit ICE’s compliance with the law. ICE has a duty to care for all individuals in their charge, and lawmakers must hold them accountable to carrying out this mission.” Current co-signers of the letter include Representatives Zoe Lofgren, Michelle Lujan Grisham, Raul Grijalva, Luis Gutiérrez, Filemon Vela Jr., Vicente González, Juan Vargas, Al Green, Sheila Jackson Lee, Jan Schakowsky, Gene Green, Salud Carbajal, Nanette Barragán, Mike Quigley, Barbara Lee, Jerrold Nadler, Adriano Espaillat, Ann McLane Kuster, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Pramila Jayapal, Norma Torres, Jared Polis, Darren Soto, Donald McEachin, Ruben Gallego, Grace Napolitano, Lucille Roybal-Allard, José E. Serrano, Dina Titus, André Carson, Antonio Cárdenas, Elijah Cummings, Adam Smith, James McGovern, Beto O’Rourke, Jimmy Gomez, Ro Khanna, Albio Sires, Judy Chu, Grace Meng, Nydia M. Velázquez, Frank Pallone Jr., Ben Ray Luján, and Jose Luis Correa. This request for action has been endorsed by Grassroots Leadership, ACLU, Human Rights Watch, United We Dream, Workers Defense Action Fund, SAFE Austin, Community Initiatives for Visiting Immigrants in Confinement (CIVIC), Detention Watch Network, RAICES, National Immigrant Justice Center, Free Migration Project, Immigrant Legal Resource Center, National Center for Transgender Equality, and Pangea Legal Services, Immigration Equality Action Fund, Mexican American Legislative Caucus (Texas State Legislature), Women's Refugee Commission, and the Texas Association Against Sexual Assault. Bob Libal, Executive Director of Grassroots Leadership, said: "In this time of national reckoning with sexual assault and harassment, we must ensure that justice is served to those like Laura Monterrosa, who has courageously spoken out about sexual abuse inside the for-profit T. Don Hutto detention center in Taylor, Texas. No one should be subject to the appalling treatment that Laura has experienced while detained for nine months. We applaud these Congressional representatives for taking leadership on this issue. ICE must act swiftly to address the series issues raised in this letter, and should release Ms. Monterrosa immediately while the federal criminal investigation into her assault continues." Mary Small, Police Director for Detention Watch Network, said: “The track record of abuse in detention is long-standing, well documented and overwhelming. It is unacceptable that ICE has continued to evade accountability for sexual abuse in detention. This attempt to silence a survivor betrays fundamental values, and signals a worrying indifference to this problem inside of the agency. We welcome this intervention by Members of Congress and encourage all signatories to continue to pursue these recommendations and justice for those who have suffered abuse.” “For too long, ICE has been permitted to evade accountability, despite ample documentation of its inability to ensure the safety and health of the tens of thousands of immigrants in its custody,” said National Immigrant Justice Center Associate Director of Policy Diane Eikenberry. “These extremely concerning allegations of sexual abuse throughout ICE’s detention system stem from a culture of secrecy and imp unity that values corporate profits over the well-being, safety and dignity of people and their communities.” “Human Rights Watch has investigated sexual abuse in prisons, leading to the passage of the Prison Rape Elimination Act, and we have released several reports documenting dangerous and rights-violating conditions in immigration detention,” said Jasmine L. Tyler, advocacy director for the US Program of Human Rights Watch. “HRW believes it is critical for ICE to implement safeguards for detainees in their care to prevent sexual abuse in immigration detention.” "Ms. Monterrosa's case is not an outlier," said Christina Fialho, an attorney and the co-founder/executive director of Community Initiatives for Visiting Immigrants in Confinement (CIVIC). " For example, people who speak out often face retaliation in the form of solitary confinement, physical and psychological violence, transfers far away from family and legal support, and even deportation. By not properly investigating each allegation of sexual assault, our government sends a clear message that it not only tolerates the sexual abuse of immigrants, but it also maintains an environment for it to thrive with impunity." National Center for Transgender Equality Executive Director Mara Keisling said, “Many LGBTQ immigrants in detention came to this country seeking safety from life threatening prosecution only to be indefinitely detained and revictimized by ICE. ICE's PREA efforts have so far failed to produce meaningful change and real accountability to ensure no one is abused in ICE custody. We will continue to call for real accountability for what goes on in ICE detention centers and an end to the detention of vulnerable immigrants.” The full text of the letter can be found here and copied below: February 26, 2018 Thomas D. Homan Claire Trickler-McNulty Deputy Director Assistant Director, ODPP U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement 500 12th St., SW 500 12th St., SW Washington, D.C. 20536 Washington, D.C. 20536 Dear Deputy Director Homan and Acting Assistant Director Trickler-McNulty: We write to express our concern regarding the prevalence of reports of sexual assault and abuse in Texas immigration detention facilities overseen by U.S. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement (ICE). Since the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) issued its final standards on the Prison Rape Elimination Act (PREA), DHS mandates that each immigration detention facility undergo an audit once in the three-year period following July 6, 2015, and each three-year period thereafter.[1] Under PREA, immigration facilities must investigate and discipline those who engage in sexual assault and abuse, collect and review data, as well as comply with audits and other state regulations. Many Texas immigration detention facilities have never undergone this audit.[2] Of particular concern is PREA compliance at the T. Don Hutto Residential Center (Hutto) in Taylor, Texas. Laura Monterrosa, a 23-year-old asylum seeker from El Salvador, first came forward to file a complaint alleging repeated sexual abuse by a female guard at Hutto, where she has been held since May. After Ms. Monterrosa filed her complaint, two more female detainees came forward with similar allegations. She alleges that she has faced retaliation from ICE guards and pressure to retract her allegation, along with solitary confinement for up to 60 hours at a time in recent weeks. DHS standards dictate that “The agency may require an expedited audit if the agency has reason to believe that a particular facility may be experiencing problems relating to sexual abuse” (§ 115.93 Audits of standards). At Hutto alone, between 2007 and 2011, at least five detainees reportedly filed similar complaints of sexual abuse. We believe Hutto meets this standard. Further, we worry about allegations of sexual abuse in detention centers across Texas, as outlined by many of our colleagues in Congress in a 2017 letter and by the Community Initiatives for Visiting Immigrants in Confinement (CIVIC).[3] One especially egregious example is of a child at Karnes County Residential Center who showed indications of vaginal scarring and a sexually transmitted disease; ICE declared the allegation of sexual assault was unfounded. CIVIC filed a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request that revealed that the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General (OIG) received more than 1,000 reports of sexual abuse from people in detention from May 2014 – July 2016.[4] The OIG investigated merely 24, or 2.4%, of these reports. CIVIC asserts that in Texas, between 2010 and 2016, there have been 2,558 complaints of sexual and physical abuse against ICE, resulting in only 28 investigations.[5] It is alarming to note that in OIG’s December 2017 report, “Concerns about ICE Detainee Treatment and Care at Detention Facilities,” did not address sexual abuse at all.[6] In light of our concerns and the history of sexual abuse allegations in ICE facilities, we urge you to: (1) Direct an investigation of ICE’s handling of sexual assault cases in Texas immigration detention facilities, (2) Share the results of the above investigation with the undersigned Members of Congress, and (3) Conduct an expedited PREA audit, as soon as possible, of the T. Don Hutto Residential Center in Taylor, Texas.[7] Thank you for your attention to this critical matter. We look forward to ensuring that all ICE detention centers, and their employees, follow established laws and guidelines to ensure human rights are upheld in Texas. Sincerely, ________ [1] https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR-2014-03-07/pdf/2014-04675.pdf [2] https://www.ice.gov/prea [3]https://grijalva.house.gov/uploads/2017_12_18_DHS_Nielsen_Sexual%20Assault%20in%20ICE%20facilities5.pdf [4] http://www.endisolation.org/sexual-assault [5]https://public.tableau.com/profile/jonathan2937#!/vizhome/shared/MSXK2ZQQS [6]https://www.oig.dhs.gov/sites/default/files/assets/2017-12/OIG-18-32-Dec17.pdf [7] Per §115.93 Audits of standards ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett |Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett
02.16.2018	Members of Congress representing Central Texas reacted with sadness and frustration after a 19-year-old gunman Wednesday killed 17 people at a Florida high school that he used to attend. Authorities say Nikolas Cruz, who had been expelled from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, returned to the campus with an AR-15 rifle and “began shooting students that he saw in the hallways and on the school grounds.” The Valentine’s Day school shooting is one of the deadliest in American history. On Thursday, survivors and victims’ families demanded lawmakers create policies that would limit attacks like the one in Florida. U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, responded by calling for hearings to identify “what kind of tools might be available to us” to prevent mass shootings. “Our churches and schools should be refuges, places where parents and children especially feel safe and secure,” Cornyn said from the Senate floor Thursday. “Many of these shootings can be prevented. Perhaps not all, but we need to do everything we can.” Cornyn spoke specifically about a bill that he introduced to fix problems in the FBI’s National Instant Criminal Background Check System, which has passed the U.S. Senate and awaits a vote in the House. Devin Patrick Kelley, the gunman in the Sutherland Springs church mass killing, couldn’t legally buy or possess firearms, but he managed to because his criminal history was not in the FBI system. U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, said the Florida attack was heartbreaking, and Democrats wanted to politicize the shooting by pushing “gun control,” he said during an appearance on Fox News Channel. “ Th at ’s n o t t h e r ig h t answer,” Cruz said. “The answer is to focus on criminals, to focus on violent criminals. This individual appears to have significant issues with mental illness. I think we will certainly be asking were there signs of mental illness, could we have stepped in and prevented this beforehand.” U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, had a different take. “This horrible, unending loss of precious lives must not be ignored by this Republican-controlled Congress, owned lock, stock, and barrel by the NRA,” he said in a statement. “There have been 376 mass shootings since the beginning of 2017, and the Parkland massacre marks the 18th school shooting this year alone. In the past five months, three of the 10 deadliest shootings in U.S. history have occurred.” Moments of silence are often followed by “moments of Republican inaction,” Doggett added. Here are how other Central Texas lawmakers reacted: ■ “This attack on innocent children in Parkland, Fla. is heartbreaking. Please join me in keeping the victims, their families, and the Parkland community in our hearts. Thank you to our law enforcement for their response,” said U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Austin. ■ “This tragedy is absolutely heartbreaking. Please join me in prayer for all of those affected in this hateful act,” said U.S. Rep. Roger Williams, R-Austin. ■ “Heartbreaking news coming out of Florida this afternoon. Our thoughts are with the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School community,” said U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio. ■ “This attack on innocent students is an example of the purest form of evil. As a father and a grandfather, my heart breaks for the children that experienced this terror, and my deepest condolences go out to the families and friends of the victims of this horrifying act,” said U.S. Rep. John Carter, R-Round Rock. U. S. Reps. Blake Farenthold, R-Corpus Christi, and Bill Flores, R-San Antonio, did not provide comments Thursday. Farenthold’s district includes parts of Bastrop and Caldwell counties, and Flores represents parts of North Austin and Pflugerville.
02.15.2018	Shares of gun manufacturers rose in the premarket Thursday, continuing rallies in the wake of the tragic shooting at a high school in Florida. Sturm Ruger and Smith & Wesson's parent company, American Outdoor Brands, rose 2.8% and 2.4%, respectively, before the bell. PHOTO: GEORGE FREY/GETTYIMAGES. The Broward County Sheriff's Office said 17 people were gunned down Wednesday at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. The shooter, identified as 19-year-old former student Nikolas Cruz, was booked on 17 counts of premeditated murder Thursday. He allegedly used an AR-15 assault rifle in the rampage. afternoon as news of the shooting broke. The stocks closed 2.8% and 5.6% higher, respectively. Fear of tougher gun laws after deadly shootings may drive people to stockpile weapons. History shows that Sturm Ruger and American Outdoor Brands rise 1.6% and 2.2%, respectively, five days after a mass shooting, a CNBC study using Kensho found. The study looked at their performance following mass shootings dating back five years. History shows that Sturm Ruger and American Outdoors Brand rise 1.6 percent and 2.2 percent, respectively, five days after mass shootings, a CNBC study using Kensho found. The study looked at their perfromance following mass shootings dating five years. PHOTO: CNBC. Several U.S. lawmakers called for tougher gun control laws in the wake of the shooting. Sen. Chris Murphy, D-Conn., tweeted Wednesday night: "Don't tell me tomorrow isn't the appropriate time to debate gun violence. If you're a political leader doing nothing about this slaughter, you're an accomplice." Rep. Eliot Engel, D-N.Y., said: "Another terrible school shooting, this time in Florida. At least 18 other school shootings have already happened this year. My heart breaks for those children and their parents. How many more victims until we decide gun violence is a national problem?" Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas, also tweeted: "Another day, another shooting, indeed, multiple shootings today, while Congress sits in the grip of the NRA, incapable of making the slightest gesture toward reasonable gun safety." However, new gun-control laws are unlikely to be passed anytime soon. Both the Senate and the House are controlled by the Republican Party, and many of their members receive contributions from the National Rifle Association, which heavily opposes gun regulation. President Donald Trump has resisted calls for greater gun control measures after previous mass shootings. He tweeted condolences on Wednesday. A senior administration official told NBC News there's a "strong chance" Trump will publicly address the Florida school shooting on Thursday.
02.15.2018	Regarding the Feb. 12 front-page article “ICE’s wide net boosts arrests”: During four days last February, Immigration and Customs Enforcement targeted Austin, apparently in retaliation for Travis County Sheriff Sally Hernandez’s justified refusal to honor some warrantless detainers. Despite claims by ICE that its operation targeted “public safety threats,” most of those arrested had no criminal background and most of those who did committed only relatively minor offenses. ICE was not straightforward about its operation. Only through Gus Bova’s Texas Observer Freedom of Information Act request did I learn that ICE had apprehended almost three times the number initially disclosed to me. And, of those, many were also law-abiding residents. I still await answers from ICE concerning whether its deceit extended beyond Austin and has continued. One “dreamer” reported that for weeks following these raids, her parents would leave home only one at a time for fear of leaving their children without any caregiver. Indiscriminate raids make immigrants fearful of assisting local law enforcement. We are all made less safe, but the Trump administration does not conduct these for safety. Its objective is to instill fear and to intimidate immigrants into leaving. And this is the same treatment that dreamers could receive beginning next month if House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) continues to block a vote to secure their status. ICE raids on the innocent rip apart families, devastate communities and satisfy only President Trump’s anti-immigrant hysteria. Lloyd Doggett, Washington The writer, a Democrat, represents Texas’s 35th District in the House.
02.13.2018	AUSTIN BUILDING IN LINE FOR UPGRADE President Donald Trump’s new budget plan proposes spending more than ›28 million to upgrade a government-owned Austin building that is home to a U.S. Treasury Department office. The facility, at 1619 Woodward St., is known as the Austin Finance Center, and the Treasury Department’s Bureau of the Fiscal Service is housed there, according to federal documents. As part of the budget plan, the federal General Services Administration proposes spending ›28.72 million for“a repair and alteration project to modernize”the facility. According to plans filed in 2016, the repairs needed include heating, ventilation and air conditioning replacement; separation of storm and sanitary lines; domestic water line replacement; restroom upgrades; main electrical switchboard replacement; window replacement; and power distribution system replacement. The 48-year-old building is part of a 40-acre federal campus in Southeast Austin, along with an IRS service center, the Department of Veterans Affairs automation center and a leased IRS office/warehouse facility. Toll roads have fallen out of favor in Texas, but the Trump administration’s infrastructure plan relies heavily on private-sector money, as well as federal loans. RALPH BARRERA / AMERICAN-STATESMAN 2017 The Trump administration’s infrastructure plan, with its heavy reliance on the private sector and federal loans, landed Monday at a time when those approaches to building highways have fallen out of fashion in Texas. The administration’s plan is centered on using $200 billion in federal money to leverage more than $1 trillion in local and state tax dollars, as well as private investment, to fix America’s infrastructure, such as roads, highways, ports and airports. Given the Trump plan’s offering of only $200 billion in federal dollars over 10 years, plus the chilly political climate in Texas lately toward toll roads, the reaction from some transportation officials and activists was somewhere between muted and dismissive. “They kept talking $1.5 trillion, and now it’s down to $200 billion,” state Sen. Robert Nichols, R-Jacksonville, chairman of the Senate Transportation Committee, said of the plan, which Trump officials have been promising to reveal for more than a year. “We also don’t know how it’s going to be allocated (between transportation and other infrastructure). Until we know that, there’s not much really concrete we can do with it.” Terri Hall, executive director of Texans for Toll-free Highways, said the Trump plan is out of step with the president’s populist campaign. The plan, now only at the beginning of what will be a long and uncertain trip through Congress, would put half of that $200 billion into an incentive program and allow only 20 percent of a project’s total cost to come from the fund. The balance would have to raised through borrowing, generally paid back by tolls, or from state or local taxes. And the plan contemplates lifting current restrictions on putting tolls on interstate highways. “It does not align with what Trump voters elected him to do,” said Hall, who lives in Comal County and has been working against toll roads for more than a decade. “It was supposed to be for the worker and Main Street, not Wall Street. That’s just a huge problem. It doesn’t do much good to give us the Trump tax cuts, to put money in one pocket, and then pay tolls and take it out of the other pocket.” David White of Texans for Traffic Relief, a group formed last fall by business groups in reaction to state leaders’ sudden turn against toll roads, liked the plan’s promises to ease permitting and put out a welcome mat for investors. “However, Texans for Traf-›ic Relief has serious concerns about our state’s ability to take full advantage of the plan because of current policies the state has that restrict private-sector investment,” White said in an emailed statement. He called on the Legislature to “take action in 2019 to ensure we can take full advantage of it.” While awaiting details and what emerges from the lawmaking process, Nichols said it is good that the president has put the country’s infrastructure needs into the conversation. And he said there are big highway projects in which some added federal funding could fill gaps. But U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a Democrat who has represented shifting parts of Central Texas since 1994, said the plan is “so little, so late and so phony.” He said the plan flips the transportation funding burden to state and local governments, at least for any new funding, although it would not affect how existing federal transportation money is disbursed. And ultimately the White House plan will mean “selling off our roads and bridges to wealthy investors,” he said. “Don’t expect any meaningful help from Trump,” Doggett said, “to unclog I-35 or anything else.”
02.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, reacted to the release of President Trump’s budget and infrastructure plan. Rep. Doggett said: “The self-described ‘King of Debt’ is avoiding even the pretext of containing the national debt in his new budget. And for his millionaire loyalists to the crown, already rewarded with an unjust tax giveaway, he offers an infrastructure plan that enables their control of most any public asset on which they can earn a profit. “Once again rejecting any true bipartisan approach, his version of improving infrastructure is to shift more burden to states and localities with the federal match flipping from 80 percent to a mere 20 percent, together with selling off our roads and bridges to wealthy investors. It would take more than Rumpelstiltskin to spin the gold to convert $15 billion at most annually for all urban areas for all types of infrastructure into the promised $1.5 trillion. Don’t expect any meaningful help from Trump to unclog I-35 or anything else. “After more than a year of Trump inaction and chaos, this proposal is so little, so late, and so phony.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett |Twitter:@RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON D.C. - U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett had strong words in reaction to the KVUE Defenders story, “Minna’s Journey.” “Having explored the situation with Minna and Miguel, I’m very concerned about the trauma caused to them,” Congressman Doggett told the KVUE Defenders in an interview from the U.S. Capital in Washington, D.C. Minna Abreu Garcia is a Cuban wife and mother fighting for asylum for her family here in the U.S. after she and her husband, Miguel Bruce Varano, fled a life of persecution in Cuba. Their son remains imprisoned by the government there. Minna and Miguel asked for asylum together when they reached the U.S. Port of Entry in Laredo. But immigration officers separated the two after they crossed the bridge from Mexico into the U.S. Minna was sent to a detention center in Taylor and was recently released on “parole” and allowed to stay with a sponsoring family in Round Rock, Texas. She proved she suffered persecution and torture in Cuba and was not a risk to the community. Miguel was sent to Miami, Florida, where he remains detained with a $15,000 bond. Minna's attorney says the couple should have been paroled from detention together. Minna told KVUE she hoped "that they listen to us, that they see the evidence, that they help us to establish ourselves in this country." Congressman Doggett says his office is not only working to help in Minna’s case, but to stop the Department of Homeland Security from separating migrant families when they cross the border. He and 75 other lawmakers signed and sent a letter to the Department of Homeland Security asking for its policies and initiatives and a change in its process. EMBEDDED LETTER When Minna and Miguel left Cuba, Cubans were automatically allowed a path to permanent residency in the U.S. But that policy changed during their grueling, year-long journey. “It’s very troubling, considering those who come here seeking refuge, recognizing the Statue of Liberty and haven from the horrors abroad,” said Congressman Doggett. Doggett and the 75 other members of Congress sent a letter to DHS Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen stating, separating families “contradicts the most basic of American family values ..." and "is especially unnecessary given that ICE (Immigration and Customs Enforcement) should turn to humane, less costly, alternatives to detention.” They requested a copy of the DHS’s policies and initiatives on migrant family separation. “We can’t accept all of them, but when someone comes with a valid claim of persecution, we shouldn’t divide husband from wife, mother from child,” Doggett said. “It’s just wrong.” Minna is currently living with the family of James Johnson and Angela Huber in Round Rock. They agreed to sponsor and support her and Miguel while they went through the legal immigration and asylum process. Minna says she feels weakened by the separation from her husband. “I feel sad. Sometimes I feel I don’t have the strength … not even continue living, to see me in this conditions,” Minna said. Minna has been able to get legal help. Miguel has not and does not have the means to post bond. Congressman Doggett said his office hasn’t been able to speak to Miguel or government officials in Florida but will continue to work to bring Miguel and Minna together. KVUE reached out to Congressman John Carter, who represents the district where James Johnson and Angela Huber live. He responded with this statement: “One of the most important responsibilities I have as a representative is assisting my constituents when they need help with a federal agency. I’m happy to have my office look into the issue further to ensure that they’re receiving fair treatment and appropriate protocol is being followed.” Minna has a court hearing in San Antonio Monday.
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON — Texas stands to benefit from the budget deal reached between Senate and House leaders with a considerable injection of disaster relief funds. The deal includes $89.3 billion to respond to the effects of hurricanes in Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands and wildfires and mudslides in California, up from $81 billion in earlier legislation. U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, the No. 2 Senate Republican who helped fashion the bill, said that the additional $8 billion is going to funding needs for Texas. “This was designed with Texas in mind,” Cornyn told reporters Thursday. “While Texans have begun the rebuilding process in the wake of Hurricane Harvey, our state is still in need of resources as we recover from the most extreme rain event in our nation’s history.” “I applaud the Texas congressional delegation for taking the first step, and I appreciate Gov. (Greg) Abbott and the Senate Appropriations Committee for working with us to strengthen this bill,” Cornyn said. Abbott criticized the Texas congressional delegation last fall for not pushing hard enough for more money for Harvey relief. Now, Cornyn said, Abbott is supportive of the package. U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, said, “This latest disaster relief bill is the next step in our state’s road to recovery, and I am grati›ied that John Cornyn and I have been able to build upon and improve the bill that was sent to us by the House of Representatives to give the state of Texas the resources it desperately needs.” The bill does not “earmark” funds for Texas specifically but Cornyn said that the increased funds for several of the federal programs will be beneficial to the Lone Star State. The bill includes: ■$28 billion for Community Development Block Grant Disaster Recovery funding, a program of the Housing and Urban Development Administration. ■$17.4 billion for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to carry out flood mitigation projects, including potentially a third reservoir in the Houston area. ■Funding to help Texas address transportation issues in highways and transit resulting from Hurricane Harvey. ■A seed cotton provision for Texas cotton farmers to recover from the cotton crop devastation of Hurricane Harvey. Lawmakers who represent Central Texas broke along party lines on support for the package, with Lloyd Doggett, the region’s only Democrat, voting “no.” “Omissions from this agreement are significant,” said Doggett, D-Austin. “The doors of government have been slammed shut in the face of those Dreamers who have sought for so long to be assured their future.” That debate begins next week.
02.08.2018	Neil Caldwell, shown as a Texas House representative in 1974, left to become a judge. Neil Caldwell, a former state legislator and district judge who died Tuesday at 88, works in his home studio near Angleton on a “genre” painting set in the Southwest. He was named state artist in 1987, an honor marking his lifelong interest in art. JIM GUSTKE / ASSOCIATED PRESS 1987 Neil Caldwell was a member of the “Dirty Thirty,” a bipartisan group that helped oust a scandal-plagued Texas House speaker in 1971, before Caldwell moved on to become a longtime district judge in Angleton and the state artist of Texas. Known for a sharp, plain-spoken wit and a strong streak of idealism during his time in office, Caldwell died Tuesday morning at age 88 at his home outside of Angleton after entering hospice care for liver cancer, said his wife, Mary Lou Caldwell. Services and his burial at the Texas State Cemetery in Austin have not yet been scheduled, she said. “Neil Caldwell was extraordinary — a powerful progressive voice, later a distinguished jurist and always a man of principle,” said U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin. “He courageously stood up against corruption and for fair play, protection of our natural resources, working people and civil rights. He not only drew some great cartoons, he left a truly positive mark on Texas.” Caldwell, a lawyer and liberal Democrat from Alvin near the Texas coast, was elected to the Texas House in 1960 and spent his first 11 years as a gadfly supporter of the little guy but lost more battles than he won. Then the Sharpstown stock fraud scandal erupted in 1971, implicating Speaker Gus Mutscher in a bribery investigation involving deals set up by Frank Sharp, a Houston banking and development mogul. Caldwell drafted a resolution to force Mutscher to speak out about profits he had made in deals with Sharp, and, although the measure failed, the vote earned Caldwell and 29 others on the losing side a nickname they wore with honor: the Dirty Thirty. Mutscher lost his election in 1972 and was later convicted of bribery-conspiracy, and the 1973 legislative session began with a mandate for reform and with Caldwell in a new position of power: chairman of the influential Appropriations Committee, where the teetotaler who chewed cigars but never smoked them helped draft laws on lobbyist registration, campaign finance disclosure and consumer protection. Texas Monthly approved of the job he did in the 1973 session, naming Caldwell to the magazine’s list of the 10 best lawmakers and declaring him “probably the all-around best member of the Legislature.” Caldwell was “an extremely smart, savvy politician who is thoroughly trustworthy” — a House member who took a serious approach to public office without being sanctimonious and without sacrificing his sense of humor, Texas Monthly wrote. One session later, however, Caldwell watched in disgust as those he considered part of the “business as usual” crowd returned to power in the House, and he lost his committee chairmanship. The 1975 session would be his last, and his decision to retire was cemented when a job opened as a state district judge in Angleton. Caldwell, who got his law degree from the University of Texas in 1957, won that election and remained on the bench until the end of 1994. Former American-Statesman political columnist Dave McNeely caught up with Caldwell in 1982, describing him as a Texas version of Ben Franklin: a humorist, intellectual, artist and idealist who didn’t lose touch with reality. “He was a rare combination of a genuine intellectual who had a lot of good ol’boy in him and more raw talent than the law ought to allow — whether it be music, sculpture, painting or legislating,” Bob Armstrong, a friend who had served with Caldwell in the House, told McNeely at the time. A 1967 resolution designated Caldwell the “artist laureate of the Texas House” and praised him for his quick mind, ready wit and facility with Aggie jokes, along with his skills at drawing, sculpting and photography. Caldwell’s skills were acknowledged again in 1987, when he was named to a one-year stint as the state artist of Texas.
02.02.2018	(AUSTIN, TX) Con Mi MADRE will honor Congressman Lloyd Doggett and wife Libby Doggett, Dr. Judith Loredo, Google and nine other leaders in the Austin community at its Ninth Annual Corazón Awards on February 3, 2018, 6:30 p.m. at Brazos Hall. The Corazón Awards is Con Mi MADRE’s largest annual fundraiser in support of its mission of helping Latina students to stay in school and earn a college education. The 2018 Corazón Awards will kick off Con Mi MADRE’s 10th Anniversary Celebration of becoming an independent nonprofit organization after existing as a program of The Junior League of Austin for 16 years. The Junior League originally brought the program to Austin in 1992 after learning that at that time, a Latina baby in Central Texas had a less than one percent chance of obtaining a post-secondary education. Congressman Lloyd Doggett and his wife Libby Doggett will receive the Corazón Award, an honor given to leaders in the community who have made significant contributions to the education and empowerment of Latinas; those who has "poured their heart" into the success of Latinx youth. “Dr. Teresa Granillo and Con Mi MADRE do it right. With their effective efforts empowering young Latina women and their mothers, our entire community benefits,” said Congressman Doggett. Dr. Judith Loredo will accept the Con Mi MADRE Award, which is given to an educated successful Latina; an example of what Con Mi MADRE would like to see as a product of our program; someone who is living out Con Mi MADRE’s mission. "This award has touched my heart beyond words. My late mother who was not educated, devoted her life working as a clerk to ensure that I would be educated and would not have to struggle as she did to make a living. This award is hers! For just like the countless of mothers who have benefitted from the Con Mi MADRE program offerings, they too believe in their daughters and they want for them the very same things that my mother wanted for me, ” said Dr. Loredo, College Readiness and Success Consultant at The LBJ Institute for STEM Education and Research at Texas State University. To commemorate Con Mi MADRE’s 10th Anniversary, 10 Mariposa Awards will be accepted by: Austin Independent School District The Colmenero Family Google Sandy Alcalá Cindy Maciel-Reyes Sonia Briseño Castellanos El Paso Independent School District The Junior League of Austin Trellis Foundation The University of Texas School of Social Work The Mariposa Award is presented to individuals, corporations and foundations closely associated with Con Mi MADRE who have made significant contributions in their fields and have brought recognition to Con Mi MADRE through those contributions. Their efforts have helped Con Mi MADRE “spread its wings and fly.” Gerardo Interiano, Google’s Head of External Affairs for the Southwest Region commented, “With our growing Latino population, Con Mi MADRE's mission and work is essential to Austin's continued vibrancy and economic stability. At Google, we are so honored to receive one of the Mariposa Awards for Con Mi MADRE's 10th Anniversary. We are so inspired by the success stories of your work and look forward to your continued growth in 2018!” Mayor Steve Adler will address the guests at the VIP reception preceding the event, which will feature a tequila tasting on the Brazos Hall Rooftop Deck. Mark Madrid, former CEO of the Greater Austin Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, will emcee the Awards program, which will include performances by Roy Lozano's Ballet Folklorico de Texas and Mariachi Jalisco. An after-party featuring a performance Bidi Bidi Banda will follow the Awards Ceremony. The event takes place Saturday, February 3 at Brazos Hall, 204 E 4th St, Austin, TX, general admission doors open at 6:30 p.m. For more information, contact Donna Ingram at donna@conmimadre.org or (512) 467-4483. ### ABOUT CON MI MADRE: Con Mi MADRE is a two-generation organization that empowers young Latinas and their mothers through education and support services that increase preparedness, participation, and success in post-secondary education. Con Mi MADRE translates to "with my mother,” which exemplifies the unique element of our programming that intentionally engages mothers in their daughter’s educational journey from 6th grade through college graduation. Con Mi MADRE currently serves over 800 mother-daughter teams in 22 middle and high schools in the Austin area and recently launched a chapter in El Paso, welcoming 71 mother-daughter teams in El Paso ISD Fall 2017. The majority of the families are low-income (70%), and 80% of the girls will be first-generation college graduates. Event Visuals 6:30 p.m. Mayor Steve Adler addresses VIP party guests 7:30 p.m. Dinner served and Mark Madrid begins program 7:45 p.m. Honorees announced with speeches and video 9:25 pm Mariachi Jalisco performs 10:00 p.m. Performance by Bidi Bidi Banda
02.02.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), senior Member of the House Ways & Means Committee, issued the following statement about the expected release of a classified Republican-drafted memo. Rep. Doggett said: “Speaker Paul Ryan and other Republican enablers came out, saw Donald Trump’s dark shadow and decided to huddle within it rather than defend our democracy. What’s transparent about this selective release of top secret information are the excuses Republicans offer to justify it. Those who distract, distort, manipulate, or simply stand mute, represent Trump’s first line of defense. “While eager to protect himself from the independent investigation of Russian collusion, the cover up, and obstruction of justice, Trump through this unprecedented interference is doing much more—he takes another big step in the march to authoritarianism. With another act of intimidation, he seeks a pledge of allegiance solely to the Great Leader from those whose job is to protect all of us. Labeling the press as the ‘enemy of the American people,’ repeatedly denigrating law enforcement, security, and justice systems, eliminating meaningful Congressional oversight, Trump employs the anti-democratic tactics of the foreign strongmen he so much admires. “With his prior disclosure of secrets to Russians in the oval office, the Deputy FBI Director’s departure he obtained, the refusal to implement sanctions legislation against Russia, and now his outrageous disclosure of selective, top secret information, Trump would leave us defenseless from more Russian attacks on our democracy. Putin has every reason to rejoice at having his favorite in the White House.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett |Twitter:@RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett
01.31.2018	WASHINGTON — From immigration and border security to infrastructure and disaster response, President Donald Trump’s first State of the Union address hit a host of hot-button issues that were felt deep in the heart of Texas. Even as Trump called for unity, the symbolic centerpiece of his speech was the renewed call for a “great wall” along the Mexican border, the central barrier to a deal on immigration and “Dreamers” — the children of undocumented immigrants who the president acknowledges find themselves in the country through no fault of their own. “The first pillar of our framework generously offers a path to citizenship for 1.8 million illegal immigrants who were brought here by their parents at a young age,” Trump said. “Those who meet education and work requirements, and show good moral character, will be able to become full citizens of the United States.” But Trump’s second pillar, he said, “means building a great wall on the Southern border.” Rounding out the four pillars of Trump’s immigration program are new restrictions on legal immigration — another flash point in the in the political battle that threatens to shut down the government again next week. The rancor surrounding the issue was on display in the hours leading up to the speech, as Dreamers from all over the country, including Texas, converged on the U.S. Capitol to demonstrate their plight. Among them was Houston Dreamer Cesar Espinosa, founder of an immigrants' rights organization named FIEL, who arrived as a guest of U.S. Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee. San Antonio Democrat Joaquin Castro also hosted a Dreamer, though he declined to give her name to protect her identify. With the number of Dreamers in the chamber multiplying, one Republican lawmaker, Rep. Paul Gosar of Arizona, called on the U.S. Capitol Police to check IDs and arrest any “illegal aliens in attendance.” No arrests were reported. But there were hard feelings. “The amnesty lobby and their millions (were) out in full force,” said Maria Espinoza of the Remembrance Project, a Houston-based organization that highlights crimes committed by people living in the U.S. illegally. But for Julián Castro, the former San Antonio mayor and housing secretary under President Barack Obama, Trump’s speech was a marker. “One year into the most divisive administration in recent memory, we are at a defining moment for Latino political engagement,” he said at a Capitol Hill rally for Dreamers. Meanwhile Houston U.S. Rep. Al Green, joined about a half-dozen other members of the Congressional Black Caucus in boycotting the speech, calling it a matter of “principle.” But the speech was welcomed by Texas Republicans, including U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, one of the chief negotiators on an immigration pact that Congress hopes to reach by a March 5 deadline set by the president for ending the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. As part of his focus on immigration, Trump mentioned the fight against the MS-13 organization and honored the parents of two girls who were killed by the gang. Despite the mounting tensions, which already have led to one government shutdown, Cornyn listed Trump-backed initiatives on infrastructure, criminal justice reform and immigration as potential areas of bipartisan cooperation. “The president has laid out a framework that is exceedingly generous to the DACA recipients, something that has surprised a lot of people in its generosity,” Cornyn said. “But he’s also said we need to make sure this doesn’t happen again, and that’s why the border security and the enforcement piece is an important part of the puzzle. It’s going to take everybody giving something.” Trump, who has called for “heart” in dealing with the Dreamers, laid out the case for what he sees as a compromise on immigration, one that would provide immediate relief to some 124,000 Dreamers in Texas. But the price, $25 billion for a border security, including walls and fences, is more than many immigrant activists and Democrats want to pay. “I am bewildered by the oversight of the negative impact that a border wall has on the 15 million people who call the Southern border region their home,” said U.S. Rep. Filemon Vela of Brownsville. “The apparent acceptance of the border wall and disregard of the impact on border communities demonstrates a fundamental lack of thought, logic, and empathy.” Christian Ramirez, director of the Southern Borders Communities Coalition, rejected Trump’s proposal outright. “We should not be using border communities and the lives of Dreamers as bargaining chips to score cheap political points,” he said. But Trump’s plan has garnered support from at least one Hispanic civil rights group, the Corpus Christi-based League of United Latin American Citizens. Cornyn cited its support as a sign of hope for Trump’s plan, which would create a path to citizenship for as many as 1.8 million Dreamers. Cornyn said the offer should entice Democrats, whose leader, New York Sen. Chuck Schumer, recently rescinded his previous offer to go along with Trump’s wall. “My guess is if they’re serious about coming up with a solution for … young adults who would benefit from the president’s proposal, they’ll come back to the table,” he said. Trump also made the case for new limits on legal migration, a central plank of his nativist “America First” agenda. “Struggling communities, especially immigrant communities, will also be helped by immigration policies that focus on the best interests of American workers and American families,” Trump said. “So tonight, I am extending an open hand to work with members of both parties, Democrats and Republicans, to protect our citizens, of every background, color, and creed. My duty, and the sacred duty of every elected official in this chamber, is to defend Americans — to protect their safety, their families, their communities, and their right to the American Dream. Because Americans are dreamers too.” Trump’s proposed immigration limits already have run afoul of Democrats in Congress. But the White House plan mirrors provisions in a House bill co-sponsored by Houston-area Republican Michael McCaul that restricts family migration and ends a visa lottery system for nations that are underrepresented in the U.S. immigration system. “We need to close the legal loopholes,” McCaul said in a Fox News interview Tuesday. “The bottom line is … we want to deal with this in a holistic way with security and DACA, and not have to deal with another DACA five, 10 years down the road." A more narrowly drawn bill backed by San Antonio Republican Will Hurd, who represents a heavily Latino border district in West Texas, calls for enhancing border security technology and surveillance, as opposed to a physical barrier. Unlike McCaul’s bill, it also provides a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers. San Antonio Democrat Lloyd Doggett said after the speech that Trump's “unceasing, unhinged attacks have left the state of the union endangered, chaotic and divisive. What a wide gap between his tweets and his Teleprompter. He talks unity but repeatedly pits one group of Americans against another.” In a venue that is traditionally thematic and light on details, Trump laid out an ambitious $1.5 trillion federal infrastructure plan, also tapping into state, local and private funds. “We will build gleaming new roads, bridges, highways, railways, and waterways across our land,” Trump said. “And we will do it with American heart, American hands, and American grit.” He also sought to strike a unifying tone of optimism with allusions to the heroes of Hurricane Harvey and other national traumas. “Tonight, I want to talk about what kind of future we are going to have, and what kind of nation we are going to be,” Trump said. “All of us, together, as one team, one people, and one American family.” One of his invited guests in the first lady’s seating area was Jon Bridgers, who founded the Cajun Navy that responded to flooding after Harvey hit Texas and Louisiana last summer. Rep. Kevin Brady, R-The Woodlands, also brought another Harvey hero into the chamber: Businessman Jim "Mattress Mack" McIngvale, who opened his Gallery Furniture to shelter Houstonians displaced by Harvey. Stephen Willeford, one of the heroes of last November's shooting rampage at the First Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs, also arrived as an invited guest of U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar, a Laredo Democrat, and Texas U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, a Republican. Trump also gave a friendly nod to an energy sector that has long fueled Texas’ economy. “We have ended the war on american energy,” he said. “We have ended the war on clean coal. We are now very proudly an exporter of energy to the world.” Bill Lambrecht of the Washington Bureau contributed to this report.
01.29.2018	Congressman Lloyd Doggett is calling on Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to release a raft of new information about immigration raids conducted last February after the Observer reported last week that the agency arrested nearly three times more immigrants in the Austin area than it previously reported. In a letter sent Thursday to top Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and ICE officials, Doggett, D-Austin, says the information that ICE provided to his office and the public last year was “selective and deceptive.” He writes that ICE first told him it had arrested only 28 immigrants, before changing the number to 51. An Observer public information request revealed that the actual number was 132, and that ICE had initially included arrests from only two of four days that agents were active in the Austin area. The agency has explained the discrepancy by saying separate national and regional operations overlapped. “ICE engaged in deception,” Doggett told the Observer. “I want ICE focused on the security of our communities, not on separating law-abiding immigrants from their children, and this is why I requested complete data on their arrests and an explanation for their glaring omissions.” Doggett, who has served in Congress for more than two decades, is calling for the agency to release a “detailed list” of prior criminal convictions for all 132 immigrants who were arrested, including whether each was “targeted” or encountered incidentally. Of the 132, ICE listed 72 as having criminal records, which includes immigration and driving offenses. He is also requesting the total number of non-criminals arrested by ICE in Central Texas since February 2017, and for ICE to verify whether the numbers from raids it conducted in other U.S. cities at the same time last year were also incomplete. Doggett’s request follows on the heels of other lawmakers’ responses. In a press release last Tuesday, state Representative Eddie Rodriguez, D-Austin, said: “I am deeply troubled by the federal agency’s lack of transparency, accountability and integrity in this matter, and I intend on setting the record straight.” Austin City Council member Greg Casar said he’s troubled by what he characterized as a pattern of deception of ICE’s party. He noted that the agency first denied the existence of any special operation before changing its story, and he also cited documents that revealed agents scrambled at the time to compile cases that would paint their targets as hardened criminals. Casar concluded: “ICE is operating as part Trump propaganda machine, and part secret police.” DHS and ICE have acknowledged receipt of Doggett’s request but have yet to respond, according to Doggett’s spokesperson Jaimie Woo. “As we often do, Congressional correspondence goes through the appropriate channels,” San Antonio ICE spokesperson Nina Pruneda told the Observer in response to a request for comment
01.28.2018	Saul Loeb | AFP | Getty Images President Donald Trump speaks about the tax reform legislation in the Grand Foyer of the White House in Washington, DC, December 13, 2017. –Democrats are slamming President Donald Trump after it was reported that he ordered his top lawyer to fire special counsel Robert Mueller last year. The New York Times on Thursday reported that Trump told White House lawyer Don McGahn to fire Mueller in June, shortly after Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein appointed the special counsel to investigate ties between Trump's presidential campaign and Russia. In order to justify his order, according to the Times, Trump cited multiple instances of what he perceived to be conflicts of interest. One conflict, Trump reportedly argued, involved a years-old dispute at Trump National Golf Club that led Mueller to give up his membership. McGahn threatened to resign rather than carry out the order, the Times said, and Trump backed down from his attempt to remove Mueller from the investigation. Some Democrats were quick to label the incident an instance of obstruction of justice. Albin Lohr-Jones | Bloomberg | Getty Images Don McGahn, attorney and U.S. Federal Election Commission member, arrives in the lobby of Trump Tower in New York U.S., on Monday, Jan. 8, 2017. "If that's not obstruction of justice, I don't know what is," said Rep. Louise Slaughter, D-N.Y. "It's reminiscent of President Nixon's Saturday Night Massacre." Rep. John Garamendi, D-Calif., told CNBC in a phone interview that the biggest threats to Mueller's investigation are "the president and the president's supporters in Congress and the Senate." Some Republicans argued that Mueller's continued presence on the case disproves the obstruction charge. "Unless they can get Don McGahn on the record verifying the story this looks like more salacious tabloid journalism. And by the way, he didn't fire him – that would have been news," said Rep. Kevin Cramer, R-N.D. Others echoed Trump, who was at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, on Friday, when he called the report "fake news." "As far as I am concerned the president has addressed these accusations," said Rep. Roger Marshall, R-Kan. "This morning he called it fake news, and I side with President Trump." Rep. Robert Pittenger, R-N.C., went a step further, questioning whether "the New York Times is trying to distract attention from the explosive FISA memo" — a reference to a classified memo from House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes, R-Calif., purporting to cast doubt on the special counsel's integrity by uncovering alleged abuses of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. Democrats weren't impressed with that line of reasoning. "I don't know how to respond to people who don't believe in journalism or facts," said Rep. Ro Khanna, D-Calif, said in an interview. "The reality is, the reporting was sourced. It's clear that he wanted to do this." CNBC reached out to hundreds of House and Senate offices to gauge the reaction on Capitol Hill. Here are some of their responses: Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas: "Drop by drop, the unchecked acid of Trump's relentless assault on law enforcement and attacks on our free press erode the foundation of our democracy. Republican silence is complicity." Sen. Tom Udall, D-N.M.: "This report is stunning confirmation of President Trump's willingness to upend the rule of law and attack our institutions to protect himself, his family, and his inner circle." Rep. Roger Marshall, R-Kan.: "Record high stock market, record lows in unemployment, and the NYT would rather report on yet another aged rumor." Rep. David Price, D-N.C.: "The firing of the Special Counsel, or any attempt to disrupt or undermine his investigation, is a gross abuse of power and should represent a red line for lawmakers who took an oath to defend the constitution." Rep. Robert Pittenger, R-N.C.: "President Trump said this is fake news. Robert Mueller is still on the job." Rep. Betty McCollum, D-Minn.: "I have no doubt that President Trump obstructed justice in his repeated attempts to shut down the Russia investigation. Even as this Republican Congress covers up for President Trump, the evidence continues to build for impeachment in the next Congress." House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif.: "House Republicans refuse to fully investigate the threat and instead are waging a campaign to impugn the credibility of our nation's law enforcement." Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman, D-N.J.: "It is irresponsible, dangerous, and even treasonous for this President to seek to obstruct and undermine an investigation into his Administration and possible collusion with the Trump campaign." Rep. Paul Gosar, R-Ariz.: "The Mueller investigation has been shoddy, politicized and full of leaks; therefore, good cause [to fire Mueller] exists. Nevertheless, Mueller was not fired — but the ability and reasons to do so exist." Rep. Dina Titus, D-Nev.: "No one can believe anything the President says. He makes up things; he exaggerates; he changes his story by the tweet. So let's see how he does under oath when confronted by Mueller."
01.23.2018	WASHINGTON — Federal agencies shuttered in a fight over immigration were set to reopen today after Senate Democrats bowed to pressure and agreed to a spending compromise in return for a promise to take up debate on the expiring Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program by early next month. The government will continue operating through Feb. 8, at which time the fractious Congress faces yet another round of decisions not just about immigration but also long-term military spending and disaster relief for Texas and other states and territories battered by disasters last year. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell announced Monday his intention to negotiate a DACA deal by Feb. 8 and put legislation on the floor by then to resolve the status of some 700,000 undocumented young immigrants — 124,000 of them in Texas — brought to the U.S. as children. Senate Democrats, despite blowback from liberal allies, accepted McConnell’s offer and agreed to keep the government running for three weeks rather than four, a proposal most in their party rejected Friday night. The House later accepted the plan. The agreement paves the way for what is shaping up as an immigration debate that goes well beyond the initial goal of fixing DACA. President Donald Trump, relatively quiet during the brief spending lapse, declared in a statement that he was pleased that Democrats “have come to their senses” to end the shutdown. Later Monday night, Trump signed the bill funding the government through Feb. 8. “As I have always said, once the government is funded, my administration will work toward solving the problem of very unfair illegal immigration. We will make a long-term deal on immigration if, and only if, it is good for our country,” Trump said in the statement. After March 5, DACA recipients would no longer be able to renew work permits, which has been interpreted as leaving them subject to deportation. The process became further muddied this month by a federal court ruling ordering the administration to resurrect part of the program, a ruling that the Trump administration has asked the Supreme Court to review. After negotiations over the weekend between Democrats and GOP moderates, McConnell, R-Ken., committed to a timetable that could put the Senate on the path to giving DACA recipients protections — and perhaps a pathway to citizenship. “Let me be clear. This immigration debate will have a level playing field at the outset and an amendment process that is fair to all sides,” he said. The shutdown had limited effect, given that it landed over a weekend. In San Antonio, Air Force Col. Sean McKenna started his morning Monday by writing variations of a form letter to civil service staffers deemed “non-essential” personnel. He then called all 10 of the workers into his office, where they sat at a large conference table. “This is a difficult day to conduct business not only because of folks not being here, but a lot of people we deal with at other parts of the process aren’t at work either, so getting things done while the government is at a stop is difficult,” said McKenna, who oversees personnel and logistics for the Air Force Recruiting Service. McKenna said he was relieved that the shutdown is ending “because I value my team, and having 40 percent of my team not at work is no way to do business.” Thousands of civilians throughout the San Antonio area were likely home Monday afternoon after getting furlough notices. Yet even with so many people idled, things were still getting done — especially in the military’s training community, which has a huge footprint on San Antonio’s three bases and the Camp Bullis training range in Northwest Bexar County. “The good-news story is that applicants are shipping to basic training tomorrow. Tuesday is our ship date,” said Leslie Brown, the Air Force Recruiting Service’s chief of public affairs. Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff offered tepid applause for news of the shutdown’s end. “At least it’s a step forward, but not a very good one: three weeks,” he said. “It took months to resolve this. I don’t know that it’s going to be any better in three weeks from now, but at least we’ve got a chance.” After three days of blame, political theater and #Schumer-Shutdown versus #TrumpShutdown hashtag competition, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer declared Monday that he would accept McConnell’s offer. The legislation approved by the Senate 81-18 includes a six-year extension for the Children’s Health Insurance Program, which covers 9 million low-income children. Funding in Texas was scheduled to run out next month. “I’m confident that we can get the 60 votes in the Senate for a DACA bill. And now there is a real pathway to get a bill on the floor and through the Senate,” said Schumer, D-N.Y. Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn of Texas was among six GOP senators, all of them immigration hawks, who visited the White House on Monday to meet with Trump about the coming negotiation. “What do they have to show for that?” Cornyn said, referring to Democrats. “To my mind, they got nothing to show for that. Sure, they got a commitment from Mr. McConnell to take up immigration in February. He was going to do that anyway.” Cornyn referred to a statement of principles spelled out at a bipartisan White House meeting two weeks ago before Trump made contradictory and reportedly crude statements about immigrants that, by most accounts, set back negotiations. As part of a DACA fix, Cornyn said, the White House will require new border security and interior enforcement provisions, as well as changes in the family-based visa system and the Diversity Visa Lottery program, which yields about 50,000 visas to applicants from smaller countries. Cornyn raised the prospect of reallocating visas from both programs to applicants on the basis of merit, a system some in Congress have proposed for broader immigration overhaul. “So back we go to the drawing boards. No one pretends that this solution is easy, but it’s one we’re committed to address,” he said. GOP Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas signaled that he’ll be among those driving a hard bargain. “I think there’s a lot we should do on immigration. But I think it would be a serious mistake for us to pass an amnesty bill providing amnesty and a path to citizenship for millions of people here illegally,” he said. “Congress might do that. I hope it doesn’t, and I think doing so would be inconsistent with the promises we made the American people in 2016.” In the House, San Antonio Democrat Lloyd Doggett was among many in his party voting against the funding extension. “After more than four months, there’s still no certainty for our military, government contractors, community health centers, Dreamers and their employers,” Doggett said of the spending extensions. The Democrats’ decision to halt the shutdown split the party and angered some of its liberal backers. Senators voting against ending the shutdown included several mentioned as 2020 candidates for the Democratic presidential nomination: Kamala Harris of California, Cory Booker of New Jersey, Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Bernie Sanders of Vermont. Bill Lambrecht reported from Washington, and Sig Christenson reported from San Antonio.
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, spoke on the House Floor against the shutdown in favor of a more responsible approach. You may view his full remarks here. Rep. Doggett said: “The cause of any government shutdown now will be the same as in the past—Republican intransigence. If they continue to insist upon an entirely partisan bill that excludes Dreamers, they should not expect Democratic votes. I want the government to remain open for everyone, including our Dreamers. “While Republicans firmly control all levers of government, they cannot keep it operating. They will make history by celebrating the first anniversary of Donald Trump’s incompetence by shutting down the government they totally control themselves. Instead of staying here to work toward a bipartisan solution, they’re moving to shut down this House first. It’s the height of irresponsibility. It shows the depths of mismanagement that has failed to produce a simple one-year resolution to continue operations of our government. We must speak out about the wrong that is being committed here, defend Dreamers, defend the continuation of our government and a more responsible approach in this new year.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett |Twitter:@RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON -- The House approved a must-pass spending measure to avert a government shutdown late Thursday, sending the legislation to the Senate where it faces a less certain future. There, increasing opposition from Senate Democrats and some Republicans unhappy with inaction on a plan to protect young immigrants in the country illegally from deportation raised the possibility lawmakers won’t reach a deal by Friday's deadline. The 230-197 House vote mostly broke down on partisan lines, though a handful of Democrats -- including Laredo Rep. Henry Cuellar and McAllen Rep. Vicente Gonzalez -- broke with their party and supported it. “The big fight is going to be on the Senate side,” Cuellar predicted ahead of the vote, adding that though he wants to see resolution on the expiring Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, program, he's not willing to risk a federal shutdown. A partial shutdown could have far-reaching political implications for both parties, especially in an election year, as well as real-world impact on everyday life. Not all government functions would grind to a halt. Military personnel, law enforcement and air traffic controllers would report for duty. Mail would be delivered. Social Security checks would be issued, and essential government programs, including Medicare, would continue. But thousands of federal workers could see their pay delayed, regulatory agencies, national parks and museums could close and other non-essential services would stop. The spending deal -- Congress' fourth consecutive continuing resolution -- would fund the government through Feb. 16. In a bid to entice Democrats' support, or hammer them for lack of it, House Speaker Paul Ryan included a six-year extension of the popular Children’s Health Insurance Program, or CHIP, into the measure. The legislation would also delay a few Affordable Care Act taxes. A handful of Texas Republicans, including Dallas Rep. Jeb Hensarling, Ennis Rep. Joe Barton and Clarendon Rep. Mac Thornberry, have voted against previous continuing resolutions for a variety of reasons. But given the tight margins, all GOP members of the state's delegation cast their support for it Thursday, while several Texas Democrats cited GOP inaction on DACA as their top reason for opposing it. "If there is a shutdown, it will have the same cause as any prior shutdown, and that's Republican intransigence," said Austin Rep. Lloyd Doggett. "I am for keeping the government open for everyone, but that has to include our Dreamers along with the rest of us." It now heads to the Senate, where several Democrats and some Republicans have said they'll oppose a stopgap spending bill without an agreement on DACA, which President Donald Trump moved to phase out by March. A bipartisan group of senators hoped their proposal to give the nearly 800,000 young immigrants a path to citizenship, boost border security measures, eliminate the visa lottery and make other changes to the immigration system would gain traction this week. Backed mostly by Democrats, they worry that if Congress doesn’t act on a DACA fix now, it will fail to by the program’s end in March. Republicans hold a narrow 51-49 majority but need 60 votes to pass the spending bill. By late Thursday, Senate lawmakers were still at odds over a deal. "If this bill passes, there'll be no incentive to negotiate and we'll be right back here in a month with the same problems at our feet," said Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y. "Eventually, we need to make progress on the biggest issues before us." But GOP leaders, including Texas Sen. John Cornyn, have resisted taking up the “Gang of Six” plan due to lack of White House support. They insist they will find a DACA solution within the next several weeks but have fought to keep the issue separate from the stopgap measure. Along with Trump, they’re blaming Democrats for a potential shutdown. “We don’t need a #SchumerShutdown,” Cornyn tweeted on Thursday. By late evening, GOP leaders were boosting a website called www.schumershutdown.com Still, a handful of Republican senators have indicated they'll oppose the stopgap bill, including South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham, Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul and South Dakota Sen. Mike Rounds. Though lawmakers are signaling a partisan messaging battle, House GOP leaders had to overcome opposition from members of the conservative House Freedom Caucus in order to secure the needed votes in that chamber. Barton said he expects cooler heads will prevail. “I don’t think any political party gains by having a shutdown,” he said. Asked what would break through the gridlock, Barton said: “Common sense.” Humble Rep. Ted Poe, a Republican who like Barton announced plans to retire after this term, wasn’t so sure. He initially said “no” when asked if his colleagues were headed for a shutdown, but added: “I’m not positive. This is Congress.”
01.16.2018	Under an open-and-shut sky and a light cool breeze, tens of thousands of people marched on San Antonio’s Eastside on Monday, paying homage to the late Martin Luther King Jr. half a century after his fatal shooting and at a time when, as several speakers pointedly noted, the country appears politically more divided than ever. President Donald Trump came under frequent criticism from the mostly Democratic speakers after the march, one of whom, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), accused him of “ugly racism” not only in relation to the latest White House controversy but in his policy and legislative initiatives at large. “I want to encourage you to keep that [New Year’s] resolution if it is about exercise. Exercise your right to march and assemble, and particularly exercise your right to vote,” Doggett told the crowd at Pittman-Sullivan Park. “This march is mighty important, but we need a march to the polling place to throw the rascals out and to react to that ugly racism that has been coming right out of Pennsylvania Avenue at the White House.” Speakers who took to the stage at the park after the 2.75-mile march called on attendees to take the fight for justice and equality well to local elections. They urged a focus not only on the 2020 presidential race, but on recruiting and electing like-minded candidates to school boards, city councils, statehouses, and Congress to better reflect the country’s increasing racial diversity. Keynote speaker Roland Martin, a native Houstonian and television journalist and commentator, called out Trump and others who he said embrace King and his legacy publicly but attack civil rights daily through their legislation, policies, and votes. Several speakers pointed to Trump’s reported description of Haiti and African nations as “s—hole countries” as evidence of his true feelings about equal rights. (The president has since denied he said it, but numerous attendees at the meeting have stood by their descriptions of his remarks.) SCOTT BALL / RIVARD REPORT Television journalist and commentator Roland Martin gives the keynote address at Pittman-Sullivan Park. “On this day, you have folks who would have never in their life marched with, agreed with, voted with anything [King] believed in. But they are real quick to send press releases out or tweet out comments about how great he was,” Martin said, criticizing U.S. Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) and House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wisconsin) along with the president for releasing statements or – in Trump’s case – a video extolling the work and legacy of King. “We cannot allow people to continue to pimp MLK Day for their purposes if they are unwilling to stand up for the very things that he believed in,” Martin said to strong applause. “You can’t say he was a great man but you vote against health care for all. You can’t say he was a great man but you want to break up families and deport folks from this country. You can’t say he was a great man when you are involved with folks who believe in voter suppression. You cannot say he was a great man if you are unwilling to stand up for civil rights in 2018. “I am sick and tired of people pimping Dr. King and the Civil Rights movement for their own causes,” he continued. “It is time to say, ‘no more.’” SCOTT BALL / RIVARD REPORT Mayor Ron Nirenberg carries his son Jonah along the march route. Billed as the largest MLK Day march in the country, the event featured a who’s who of local elected officials from all levels of government, including Doggett and U.S. Rep. Will Hurd (R-Texas); statehouse members Sen. José Menéndez (D-San Antonio) and Rep. Barbara Gervin-Hawkins (D-San Antonio); San Antonio Mayor Ron Nirenberg and City Council members; former Dallas County Sheriff Lupe Valdez, a Democratic candidate for governor; and Bexar County District Attorney Nico LaHood and Sheriff Javier Salazar. (Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff did not participate after having undergone a “really minor medical procedure” on Friday, said his spokesman, T.J. Mayes.) Calling San Antonio a city that “does not stand down from racism, xenophobia, and bigotry,” Nirenberg further described it as “a city where the cause of the Confederacy is no longer glorified by monuments in public squares. Although he has been gone for 50 years, Dr. King’s words are perhaps as powerful today as they were when he said them. Because we continue to fight his fight against inequality.” Related: Former Mayor Taylor Honored with MLK Jr. Achievement Award Former San Antonio Mayor Ivy Taylor also attended, receiving one of the only standing ovations from the crowd after receiving the Martin Luther King Jr. Distinguished Achievement Award. “I’m just so grateful that the Lord gave me the opportunity to serve my adopted hometown through the City Council [and as mayor] for eight years,” Taylor said from the stage. “Let’s continue working to make the dream a reality.” Apart from the officials, the event – which organizers said drew some 200,000 attendees – felt more like a giant family reunion. Marchers of all ages walked arm-in-arm, holding banners and signs, pushing babies in strollers or holding toddlers on their hips. Some elderly marchers walked, a few rode portable scooters; one man motored along playing King’s “Dream” speech from a speaker mounted on the back of his ride. Groups walking represented colleges and nonprofit organizations, businesses, corporations, and churches. There was at least one protest, but a small one. Just east of the Interstate 10 overpass, a group of about 25 SATX4 activists stood in the road holding a Black Lives Matter banner and signs with the names of people across the U.S. killed during encounters with police. “What do we want? Justice. When do we want it? Now,” they chanted, holding up their fists. Some in the crowds chanted with them and held up their fists, even as they walked around the activists. SCOTT BALL / RIVARD REPORT Black Lives Matter activists walk ahead of the official march in protest. Otherwise, marchers came in loose-knit groups of friends and family. “Everybody here’s family,” said Darryl Woods, 56, a self-employed contractor who said members of the Clay, Woods, and Nelson families, among others, have been gathering at the house every MLK Day for 37 years. King “spoke for our freedom,” Woods said, adding that he loves how San Antonio’s march stands out nationally for its size. “It’s a big deal.” For the past eight years, 56-year-old Janice Brock, a child advocate and professional seamstress, has been handing out water to marchers, she said. This year her 14-year-old granddaughter, Kaleece, joined her at what used to be Brock’s parent’s house on MLK Drive. The house has since been sold, but the new owners still let her camp out in front. The first year, they gave out 320 bottles. This year they had 1,270 bottles to distribute, some of which were donated. “I wanted to teach my granddaughters about giving back besides just saying this was a school day out,” Brock said. Before the march began at Martin Luther King Jr. Academy, several marchers from the Eastside neighborhood gathered at the home of Jackline Nobles, 73, whose front yard at the corner of Bookertee Road and Martin Luther King Drive was filled with breakfast smells – eggs, bacon, carne asada, pork chops, biscuits, and fruit. Nobles said they had been working on the spread since 3 a.m. “I just hope everyone will be happy and have a great day,” said Nobles, a retired preschool teacher. Fred Anderson, 71, was among a group of people riding a 1966 bus that replicates those of the civil rights era. At one point, Nirenberg came in to shake hands. “We’ve seen an awful lot of change,” Anderson said. “When I started out as a freedom rider I was 15 years old. We’ve seen the election of a black president. The problem is we have a new administration, a new president, a new time. And all of a sudden, all that we’ve gained is being rolled back. People have to realize this is a continuing struggle, otherwise we’re going backwards.” Anderson said his dream for 2018 is “that we have a strong enough movement that we had in the past so we can continue the progress instead of being pushed backwards.” “I’ve been to just about every one of these,” said Patrick Evans, 62, a retired documentary photographer and former staff member at St. Philip’s College. “This is a very local-level thing – they come out because it is their community.” Bexar County’s population is only 8.5 percent black, yet the march is the largest in the U.S., Evans said, which speaks to the power of the community. “Even if you get a few hipsters out here, you mainly get family and community leaders.” “Every time it’s good – every time!” said Anthony Bledsoe, 33, carrying a plate of bacon and biscuits drenched in hot sauce. He said the gathering is meant for all races. “It’s just everybody coming together,” said Bledsoe, a landscaper. “There’s a lot of violence around here, but today it just seems to cease.” SCOTT BALL / RIVARD REPORT Thousands walk on Martin Luther King Drive during the march. Passing out water to marchers in front of the Dorie Miller Center, supervisor Bettye Miles, 75, didn’t stop what she was doing to advocate for her Center and the role it plays in the Eastside community. “It has been, what, 30, 40, 50 years since the ‘I Have A Dream Speech,’ and we still don’t have equality,” Miller said. Councilwoman Rebecca Viagran (D3) took a quick break from what she said was her seventh time marching to talk about her favorite part of the day. “Just to see all the San Antonians come together and do this … I just love it,” she said. Another marcher, Councilman Greg Brockhouse (D6), said the march makes him feel “just pride, more than anything … It makes you pause and think that we should be doing more together than we do apart.” Carlos Antonio Raymond, who is running for the State Senate District 19 seat, immigrated to the U.S. from Panama in 1969 and said he served 25 years in the military. Addressing Trump’s recent remarks, including “the comment he made about our country being nasty and a mess,” Raymond said he wants to help other immigrants assimilate and contribute to the U.S. the way he did. “Prove people wrong,” he said. “You came here for a purpose,” he said. City Councilman Cruz Shaw, whose District 2 encompasses most of San Antonio’s historically black neighborhoods, said the importance of the march is to focus on communication and acceptance. “Sometimes you can’t accept someone that you don’t understand or communicate with,” he said. “Let’s open that dialogue, respect one another, and let’s progress and move forward so that everyone has an opportunity for prosperity in this country.” Saharia Paillett-Hill brought her son to the march Monday – a first time for both of them. Paulette-Hill said she marches because others can’t. “I’m walking not just for me, but for my family and my son.” As her son stopped to pick up a rock, Paillett-Hill said her son was tired and doesn’t understand the meaning of the day now, but will in the future. Rivard Report staff members Emily Donaldson, Brendan Gibbons, Jeff Sullivan, and Beth Frerking compiled this report.
01.16.2018	WASHINGTON — An aggressive push to overhaul the decades-old system for sponsoring family members for citizenship is complicating the drive to protect “Dreamers” from deportation at a critical point in negotiations. When two dozen influential members of Congress left a White House meeting last week, it looked as though they would take up immigration in two phases: first, by increasing border security and tinkering with the entry system while fixing the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. Later, they would take up long-debated and vexing issues on immigration reform. But things changed quickly, with hard-liners insisting that a DACA fix be tied to significant changes in “chain migration” — and President Donald Trump seemingly undermining trust among negotiators with vulgar remarks he is said to have made about Haiti, El Salvador and some African nations. “We walked out of that meeting with people saying, ‘Hey, we can work this out,’ ” said Rep. Henry Cuellar, D-Laredo. “Then I started talking to Republicans, and they’re telling me, ‘We want this and this and this.’ ” What Cuellar heard repeatedly was the demand to end “chain migration” — an unflattering term embraced by critics, including Trump, for family migration. Family-based immigrant visas have been a pillar of the U.S. system since 1965, the instruments by which citizens and legal permanent residents bring family members to the United States. The visas are regulated by a quota system both for countries of origin and categories of relatives, ranging from children and spouses of citizens to their parents and siblings. They are widely used, and as of Nov. 1, 3.9 million people were waiting in line. Air Force veteran John Del Toro of San Antonio relied on the visas to gain legal status in the U.S. for his wife and four stepchildren. His 18-year-old stepdaughter became a lawful permanent resident last week. Del Toro, 59, met his wife, a British citizen, in the United Arab Emirates, where he was stationed and later worked as a defense contractor. The process was difficult, he said, but he succeeded thanks to good legal counsel, assistance from Homeland Security officials in San Antonio and a family migration system that he believes should not be significantly altered. “I’m sure our system can be better, but it’s definitely better than I’ve seen outside of the United States,” he said. Nonetheless, organizations pressing to restrict immigration have long targeted family migration. A report last fall by the Center for Immigration Studies asserted that over the past 35 years, 20 million of 33 million immigrants admitted to the U.S., or 61 percent, entered on family-based immigrant visas. The report said citizens of Mexican heritage use the visas most liberally, each sponsoring more than six additional legal immigrants. “The ability to reside and work permanently in the United States is probably the most valuable commodity, or status, in the world and is one that the United States should be very selective in granting,” said Andrew Arthur, a Center for Immigration Studies lawyer. Arthur’s organization and others believe that a change in the family system must be coupled with a new system in which applicants are judged by their capacity to contribute to the U.S., financially or with special skills. The demand to overhaul the system picked up steam last month when a Bangladeshi immigrant in New York, who had entered on a family visa, strapped on a homemade pipe bomb, reportedly hoping to kill morning commuters at a Times Square subway station. He injured himself and three others. Trump seized on the incident to demand immigration reform, and he has stepped up his rhetoric since last week, tweeting Monday: “Honestly, I don’t think Democrats want to make a deal.” Immigrant advocates contend that the words “chain migration” offend and distort. “It is misused to make it sound as though one person, like rabbits, can reproduce hundreds of family members and lead to exponential growth of immigration. In fact, the system has lengthy backlogs and quotas that prevent this,” said Greg Chen, government relations director at the American Immigration Lawyers Association. Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., said he brought up family visas at the meeting in which Trump is said to have made his crude remarks. “When it came to the issue of, quote, ‘chain migration,’ I said to the president, ‘Do you realize how painful that term is to so many people? African-Americans believe they migrated to America in chains, and when you talk about chain migration, it hurts them personally.’ He said, ‘Oh, that’s a good line.’ ” On Monday, Trump referred in a tweet to “Senator Dicky Durbin,” adding that “Durbin blew DACA.” A State Department report this month illustrated the challenges in gaining entry via family visas. It said that for most countries, family visas are just being issued for brothers and sisters of U.S. citizens who applied in 2004. According to the State Department, for unmarried Mexican sons and daughters of U.S. citizens, green cards are being made available for those who applied with sponsorship in 1996 — 22 years ago. Despite the restrictions, the family system is under attack on Capitol Hill and in the White House. Legislation introduced in the House this week by leading GOP conservatives would end categories for family visas except for spouses and minor children. At the White House meeting Thursday — when Trump is said to have made his vulgar remarks — a bipartisan proposal from a half-dozen senators to restore DACA protections was rejected in part because it didn’t go far enough to rein in family migration, said Sen. Tom Cotton of Arkansas, a Republican in the Oval Office meeting. The “agreement in principle” offered to prohibit family visas for parents of DACA recipients. But despite the president’s assurance two days earlier that he would sign any DACA-related legislation Congress sent to him, the White House signaled Thursday that any bill would need to restrict categories of family-based visas for all future immigrants, not just Dreamers. That demand makes it increasingly likely that Democrats won’t support proposals being aired and may withhold votes this week on legislation to keep the government funded. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-San Antonio, said bipartisan efforts are needed to resolve thorny issues beyond a DACA fix, among them reauthorizing the Children’s Health Insurance Program. “Despite Trump’s racist outburst, efforts are still underway to secure a more certain future for our Dreamers,” he said. Cuellar, a moderate in his party, said he believes that Democrats will need to make concessions on family migration to achieve a DACA fix. But, he noted, “emotions and passions” on both sides of the issue are making it difficult to get a deal. “Some of us in the middle believe we need to have border security and a few immigration changes in order to have DACA,” he said. “I support having families united. But does somebody bring in just their immediate family? Their father and mother? The question is, how do we address this issue?”
01.12.2018	Then a candidate for president, Donald Trump rallied a crowd of veterans at Drake University in Des Moines, Iowa, on Jan. 28, 2016 — just ahead of that state's presidential caucuses. Editor's note: Some language in this story may not be appropriate for the faint of heart. Consider yourself warned. In a meeting with lawmakers at the White House on Thursday, President Donald Trump allegedly asked why immigrants from “shithole” countries were getting protections as part of a bipartisan immigration deal. The question, first reported by the Washington Post, prompted nearly immediate outrage among Texas lawmakers, especially Democrats. One longtime Texan in the U.S. House, Rep. Al Green, D-Houston, even said he'd push for Trump's impeachment. According to lawmakers at Thursday’s White House meeting, Trump’s comment was in reference to immigrants from Haiti, El Salvador and Africa. A White House official told the Post that the president said he was open to accepting immigrants from Norway and Asian countries because he believed they would help bolster the U.S. economy. The Post reported that the president singled out Haiti during the meeting, questioning why the United States needed more Haitians and telling lawmakers to “take them out” of a bipartisan immigration deal. Many lawmakers hope such a deal will resolve the standoff between Republicans and Democrats over recipients of the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, also known as DACA. In a tweet Friday morning, Trump denied that he had said anything derogatory about Haitians, though he said that “Haiti is, obviously, a very poor and troubled country.” Green, the Houston congressman, tweeted Friday that “congressional condemnation of racist bigotry is not enough. In Congress, talk is cheap-it’s how we vote that counts.” Green said he planned to bring a resolution to impeach Trump to the House floor next week. That resolution is unlikely to go far, however. Green has tried — and failed — to impeach Trump before. His attempt in December died after a 364-58 vote to "table" the resolution. U.S. Rep. Beto O’Rourke, D-El Paso, who is challenging Republican Ted Cruz in the 2018 election to represent Texas in the U.S. Senate, said he would fight for Haitians and El Salvadorans to stay in the country. U.S. Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee, D-Houston, said she was the granddaughter of Caribbean immigrants. “I go high as [Trump] stoops lower,” she tweeted. “Americans must not be silent as he undermines our values.” U.S. Rep. Joaquin Castro, D-San Antonio, tweeted that “Trump’s comments about immigrants from Haiti, African nations and other nations were vile, racist and damaging to American society.” U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, tweeted that “each day [Trump] embarrasses and endangers us.” “In continuing to impair civic dialogue, Trump has added expletives inappropriate for public debate or family conversation,” Doggett said. “His latest comments about African and Haitian immigrants once again reflect his vulgarity, intolerance and prejudice.” Some Texas Republicans, meanwhile, have been more measured in their responses. U.S. Rep. Louie Gohmert, R-Tyler, said in an interview on Fox News that he would not defend Trump’s language, but backed the president’s frustration with the U.S. immigration system. “Here we've got people, the only people they want to talk about — ‘Dreamers’ — are people that came into the country illegally," Gohmert said. “We’re seeing statistics that a huge percentage don’t speak English though they’re getting free education and all kinds of free things.” “The economy should be taking off after the great tax bill we got done, and yet, when you keep overwhelming America with people coming in illegally, it is difficult to get things done,” he added. Republican House Speaker Joe Straus, R-San Antonio, condemned the president's comment. In a statement Friday, Straus said "the vast diversity of our population makes America a better place." "I wish President Trump would show the same respect for other people, no matter their background, that Texans show one another," Straus said. "Unfortunately, when the President talks so derisively of other countries and their people, it is our country that suffers the most." Texas evangelical megachurch pastor Robert Jeffress told CBN News that Trump got the "sentiment" right. “Apart from the vocabulary attributed to him, President Trump is right on target in his sentiment," said Jeffress, pastor of First Baptist Church in Dallas. "As commander-in-chief, President Trump has a responsibility to place the interests of our nation above the needs of other countries."
01.09.2018	The Border Patrol has told agents to quickly process emergency vehicles through immigration checkpoints and reminded them they have discretion at “sensitive locations,” such as hospitals. Border Patrol acting Chief Carla Provost outlined the policy in a memo Friday, a little more than two months after the agency was criticized for its treatment of a 10-year-old girl who crossed through a checkpoint north of Laredo on her way to a hospital in Corpus Christi. It’s not clear how much Provost’s memo would impact immigrants in the same situation as Rosa Maria Hernandez, the 10-year-old from Mexico who was followed by agents to a hospital in Corpus Christi after crossing the checkpoint on U.S. 59. Because Hernandez is in the country illegally and wasn’t accompanied by a guardian, she was put in deportation proceedings and taken to a government child care facility, the Border Patrol said at the time. Activists working on Hernandez’s behalf initially said the girl, who was being taken to a children’s hospital for emergency gall bladder surgery, was in an ambulance when she passed through the checkpoint, but the Border Patrol later said she was in a nonemergency medical transport vehicle. Provost’s memo tells agents they can “expedite transit through or around a checkpoint” during “immediate emergency operations.” It also instructs the Border Patrol’s liaisons with the community to encourage medical service providers to alert the agency before sending patients through checkpoints. Lastly, it reminds agents they do have some discretion about taking medical patients into custody. “In the event that a follow-up inspection or immigration interview of the vehicle occupants is conducted at the hospital, sectors are reminded to be cognizant and familiar with the sensitive locations policies when applying this guidance,” Provost wrote. Hospitals and churches are among the sensitive locations where Department of Homeland Security policy instructs agents to avoid operating. In October, when Rosa Maria was put in government custody, the Border Patrol said it had no choice but to refer her to the Department of Health and Human Services because she wasn’t accompanied to the hospital by her parents, both of whom live in Laredo but are also in the U.S. illegally. Border communities don’t offer the same medical services as larger cities, so undocumented immigrants are often faced with a difficult choice when referred to a hospital or doctor north of one of the Border Patrol’s interior checkpoints, said Sam Robles, the communications director at the Workers Defense Action Fund, which advocated on behalf of Rosa Maria. “When you think about the resources in South Texas, especially about medical assistance, it’s not always available in the first 15 or 20 miles or whatever our internal border inspections are,” Robles said. “So we hope this is a relief for our families in South Texas who desperately need medical attention and no longer have to fear being stopped or being deported. I think for us and other advocates, we want to see what happens next.” “This announcement appears to represent some progress so that others will not have to endure what Rosa Maria’s family experienced,” said U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-San Antonio, who was critical of how the Border Patrol handled Rosa Maria’s case. “This would not have happened without the outcry from local advocates. I commend their success on the very challenging immigration front. Continued vigilance is required.” Alex Galvez, a California attorney who’s representing Rosa Maria in immigration court, called the memo “just a bureaucratic answer.” “It doesn’t acknowledge that anybody who’s recuperating from an operation is not going to be approached by an immigration officer or that an interview will not be conducted,” Galvez said. “It doesn’t answer any of the community’s concerns regarding how Rosa Maria was treated. It doesn’t set any boundaries or limitations.” An official with Customs and Border Protection, which oversees the Border Patrol, who was authorized to speak with the media but insisted on anonymity said the memo “is to remind agents of the procedures they should be taking when encountering medical services vehicles.” “There’s a difference between vehicles that are emergency and nonemergency. They’re asking agents to continue and engage so we can get notification ahead of time and we can facilitate that transit,” the official said. Galvez said Rosa Maria is in deportation proceedings but has not had a court date set.
01.08.2018	A group of House Democrats want the Senate Finance Committee to question President Trump’s nominee for Health and Human Services secretary about high drug prices at his former employer, Eli Lilly. In a letter to Finance Committee leaders, led by Texas Reps. Beto O'Rourke and Lloyd Doggett, the Democrats said Alex Azar should also be pressed on his commitment to uphold the Affordable Care Act, otherwise known as ObamaCare. Azar is scheduled to appear before the Senate Finance Committee for a confirmation hearing on Tuesday. This won't be the first time in the hot seat for Azar, who faced the Senate Health Committee last month in what was billed as a courtesy hearing. But this time he'll be before the Finance Committee, which will make the decision about whether to send his nomination to the Senate floor. Democrats are expected to question Azar on how he would lower the cost of prescription drugs, given his background as a former pharmaceutical executive. They also want to hear his views on a variety of other issues, including ObamaCare, block grants for Medicaid and women's health. Azar worked at the pharmaceutical company Eli Lilly for nearly a decade, serving most recently as the president of Lilly USA, a post he left last January. The company reportedly substantially increased the price of insulin while Azar was there, from $123 per vial in 2012 to $255 per vial in 2017. In their letter, the House lawmakers said “Azar’s history as a top executive at Eli Lilly when drug prices rose exorbitantly, along with his recent statements about the ACA, demonstrate that he may not meet” the highest standards needed to be the leader of the country’s health-care system. The House members posed a number of questions they hoped Azar would answer about the types of reforms he wants to see from the drug industry, as well as his ideas for lowering drug prices and increasing industry transparency. The letter also said Azar has made “troubling” statements about ObamaCare in the past. They urged Finance Committee members to press him on whether he will “defend and implement the Affordable Care Act as the law of the land.” O’Rourke is running for the Senate in Texas and is expected to be the Democratic nominee to take on Sen. Ted Cruz (R) in November.
01.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (TX-35) and Congressman Beto O’Rourke (TX-16) led a letter urging the Senate Finance Committee to scrutinize Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary nominee Alex Azar’s record of overseeing prescription drug price increases at Eli Lilly and his former statements on the Affordable Care Act. During Mr. Azar’s tenure as President of the company, Eli Lilly more than doubled the list price for insulin between 2012 and 2017. Mr. Azar is set to testify before the Senate Finance Committee on Tuesday. “Mr. Azar is just another Trump broken promise,” said Congressman Doggett. “Instead of stopping the ‘murder’ Trump said Big Pharma was committing, he has put another of their hitmen in charge. Families struggling with high prescription drug prices deserve better.” “The leader of our nation’s health care system must be committed to addressing prescription drug costs that are squeezing families all across Texas,” said Congressman O’Rourke. “If history is any guide, we have good reasons to question whether Alex Azar meets that standard. That’s why I’m urging my Senate colleagues on both sides of the aisle to scrutinize his history and views on prescription drug pricing before voting on his nomination.” The letter was also signed by Representatives Judy Chu, Steve Cohen, Keith Ellison, Michelle Lujan Grisham, Marcy Kaptur, Carol Shea-Porter, and Jamie Raskin. The full text of the letter is copied below: Dear Chairman Orrin Hatch and Ranking Member Ron Wyden: We urge the Senate Finance Committee to hold Alex Azar, President Donald Trump’s nominee for Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), accountable for prescription drug price increases at Eli Lilly and his intentions to uphold the Affordable Care Act (ACA) during his upcoming confirmation hearing. During the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee hearing on Azar’s nomination on November 29, 2017, senators from both sides of the aisle scrutinized the nominee’s views and history on drug pricing and the ACA. The Senate Finance Committee, which will vote on whether to send the nomination to the Senate floor for a final vote, will also hold a nomination hearing for Azar. The incoming HHS Secretary will need to tackle several critical health care issues, including health care accessibility and skyrocketing prescription drug costs. The ACA made commendable progress in expanding coverage to approximately 20 million people, but there is still more work to be done to cover the remaining quarter-million that remain uninsured and curb health care costs. Further, almost two-thirds of all Americans say that lowering the price of drugs should be a top priority for President Trump and Congress, according to a recent Kaiser Family Foundation poll.[1] Even President Trump has said repeatedly that drug companies are “getting away with murder.” Due to the urgency with which we must address the affordability crisis, it is critical that we hold the nominee to the highest standards as he seeks to be confirmed as the next leader of our nation’s health care system. Azar’s history as a top executive at Eli Lilly when drug prices rose exorbitantly, along with his recent statements about the ACA, demonstrate that he may not meet those standards. While Azar was President of Lilly, the list price for Humalog insulin more than doubled from $123 per vial in 2012 to $255 per vial in 2017, according to Truven Health Analytics; in 1996, Humalog cost only $21.[2] As a result, a class-action lawsuit alleges that Lilly fixed high prices for insulin with other drug companies. In the filed complaint, plaintiffs report “underdosing their insulin” and “skipping refills”; “some patients starve themselves, forgo[ing] one or even two meals a day.” The complaint also cites financial difficulty, where “[m]ultiple class members spend over 50% of their income on their insulin drugs.”[3] The next HHS Secretary should have more respect for patients than Azar and his company seemed to show during this period of extortionary drug prices. Azar has made troubling statements about the ACA as well. He has noted that getting rid of the individual mandate, employer mandate, and cost-sharing reductions (CSRs) – payments that help lower out-of-pocket costs for families that cannot afford them – would “hasten its demise”.[4] Despite the Trump administration doing just that – i.e., eliminating CSRs and voicing support to repeal the individual and employer mandates – Azar stated in the HELP hearing that he does not believe “there’s any effort to sabotage the program”. Azar’s comments signal that he may seek to build on the efforts to dismantle the Affordable Care Act, potentially resulting in millions of individuals losing health insurance. The Senate Finance Committee has an opportunity to press Azar further on these concerns, and we put these questions before the Committee: Sen. Isakson asked Azar to provide some ideas on how to fight “the gaming of the system” by pharmaceutical companies. However, Azar seemed unwilling to propose solutions to the drug price crisis that would require reforms from the drug manufacturing industry. Is he now willing to propose solutions that will increase transparency, lower costs, and protect the American public from runaway monopoly pricing? If not, can he firmly commit to providing a list of concrete recommendations to lower prices within the next six months? As President of Eli Lilly, Azar also served as a board member of the Biotechnology Innovation Organization, the primary lobbying group for the biotech industry. BIO, and as a member, Eli Lilly, continue to fight efforts to make drug pricing more transparent. Can Azar commit to defending the interests of patients and prioritize transparency as an important step to lowering drug prices? The Bayh-Dole Act of 1980 established important taxpayer protection rights, allowing the government to protect “reasonable access” for the American public to drugs developed with taxpayer funding. The National Institutes of Health has refused to utilize this important provision. Can Azar commit to upholding the law and using this tool to lower unreasonable drug prices? Can Azar provide any additional context for Eli Lilly’s decision to increase insulin prices while he was president of the company? Does Azar know how many individuals were unable to afford their medication as a result? Can Azar guarantee that he will defend and implement the Affordable Care Act as the law of the land, as consistent with his constitutional duty? The previous Secretary of HHS, Tom Price, seems to have spent taxpayer money designated to promote the individual marketplace to campaign for its destruction. Does Azar agree that this is an improper use of taxpayer funds, and will he commit to being more responsible if he is confirmed? As Members of Congress concerned about making health care and prescription drugs more accessible, we ask the Senate Finance Committee to conduct a thorough examination of Azar’s nomination and ensure his responses affirm a strong commitment and vision to decreasing drug costs and upholding the ACA. Sincerely, ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett |Twitter:@RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett [1] Kaiser, Health Tracking Poll – Late April 2017 [2] Washington Post, Trump’s pick to lower drug prices is a former pharma executive who raised them [3] Complaint, In re Insulin Pricing Litigation, (D.N.J. 2017) (Civil Action No. 3:17-cv-00699(BRM)(LHG)). [4] Fox Business Network, July 31, 2017
01.03.2018	WASHINGTON — A nationwide organization with Texas roots that formed to fight the Trump administration plans celebrations, of sorts, now that the new Republican-drawn tax bill is law — “retirement parties” for members of Congress who supported it. “Grab a cake, some party hats, a ‘Congrats On Your Retirement’ banner, a bunch of constituents and head on over to your member of Congress’ office to say farewell before their forced retirement from Congress,” reads a memo sent to leaders of the group Indivisible. Such theatrics will be part of a consequential political battle in coming months over the massive tax overhaul that was quickly signed into law, a far-reaching piece of legislation that could figure prominently in the outcome of 2018 midterm elections. In the vanguard of that battle is year-old Indivisible, a grass-roots organization with 6,000 groups across the country — more than 200 of them in Texas — that has become a key player in the so-called resistance to President Donald Trump and his policies. Indivisible was heavily involved in the upset victory in Alabama by Democratic Sen.-elect Doug Jones on Dec. 12, deploying hundreds of volunteers to help flip heavily GOP counties that had backed Trump in 2016 into Jones’ column. The largely decentralized organization, founded by former staff members of U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-San Antonio, asserts in its founding document that it seeks “to replicate the tea party’s success” by “stiffening Democratic spines and weakening pro-Trump Republican resolve.” Indivisible claims members in all 435 congressional districts throughout the country. John Wiesen, a former Air Force intelligence analyst and now a professional musician, is an Indivisible leader in the San Antonio district represented by Democrat Joaquin Castro. Wiesen, 55, said he and other Indivisible members recently visited the San Antonio office of U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, a Texas Republican, to protest his opposition to bills that control gun violence. Wiesen and other Indivisible members have laid plans for a large protest in San Antonio if Trump fires special counsel Robert Mueller, who is investigating Russian interference in U.S. elections in 2016. In the San Antonio-area congressional district held by Republican Will Hurd, Indivisible claims a membership just shy of 700, a force that could prove formidable in a district split nearly evenly along partisan lines. Rosey Abuabara, chair of TX23 Indivisible, said membership has more than doubled after remaining steady earlier in 2017. She cites Hurd’s support of Republican-drawn legislation and uncertainty among members about his commitment to protecting the nearly 800,000 young undocumented immigrants in jeopardy from Trump’s cancellation of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, effective in early March. Those concerns are reflected in recent visits by groups of Indivisible members to Hurd’s North Side office and in door-knocking in his district that Abuabara says will continue through the holidays “because the situation is so dire.” “He has tried to appear as if he’s a moderate — he’s written up that way — and even people we know in Indivisible were happy with him,” Abuabara said. “But he’s not for a clean Dream Act, and he’s not doing anything for the DACA people in his district.” She added that she believes that it’s hard to know what Hurd is up to in Washington. “They (his staff) won’t tell us how he’s going to vote or even which way he is leaning,” she said. Hurd, who supported the tax overhaul, has said he declined to co-sponsor the Dream Act because of his role in a small group of GOP House members given the task of forging an immigration compromise, which would include border security provisions along with protections for so-called Dreamers. No agreement was reached before Congress adjourned for the holidays. Hurd did not respond to recent inquiries about the status of those discussions. Copying the tea party On Thanksgiving eve in 2016, Ezra Levin and his wife, Leah Greenberg, both former congressional staffers, were among many Democrats wondering how to proceed after Trump’s shocking victory. Discussion over drinks in an Austin pub led to a draft of a document that turned into a blueprint for opposing Trump and led to formation of Indivisible, a nonprofit with a Washington-based staff of several dozen and a tax status that enables it to shield donors. Its 26-page Practical Guide for Resisting the Trump Agenda, which has been downloaded 3 million times, spells out local strategies that target members of Congress. For instance, it recommends that Indivisible not let members of Congress attend public events such as ribbon-cuttings “without questions about racism, authoritarianism and corruption.” The document pays homage throughout to the success of the tea party, which fought virtually every policy proposal coming out of the Obama administration beginning in 2009. “They had an extraordinary clarity of purpose. They didn’t accept concessions and treated weak Republicans as traitors,” it reads. “They focused on scaring congressional Democrats and keeping Republicans honest.” Levin, 32, who grew up in Buda, was Doggett’s deputy policy director until 2011 and field director in Doggett’s 2010 re-election campaign. He is one of three former Doggett staffers involved in setting up Indivisible or running it now. Levin and Greenberg are co-executive directors. “They were all creative individuals, and what this really shows is that a few creative and effective people can make a difference,” Doggett said in an interview. “The real test is the extent to which the energy they bring to these protests can be channeled into making a difference in the electoral process. It’s not enough to have a tweet storm or a protest outside a member’s office. It’s a matter of engaging people whether they agree with you or not. That’s the test for them,” he said. Passage of the tax bill marked a stinging defeat for Indivisible, which held some 350 events across the country to oppose it. In an interview, Levin recalled tea party setbacks, notably passage of the Affordable Care Act in 2010. “They didn’t pack their bags and go home; it fueled their electoral success. They did not let any member of Congress appear in public without asking ‘How did you vote on this health care bill,’ ” he said. “And this is exactly what we’re going to do now. No Republican member of the House and Senate is going to be able to appear in public without answering two questions: Why did you raise my taxes and the cost of my health insurance? And secondly, how much did you personally benefit from this tax cut?” He added: “2018 is going to be a tough year for them because they have given the Trump agenda a big old bear hug.” Invisible hopes to obstruct the sales job by Republicans and their allies of a tax overhaul that provides tax cuts across the board but with most of the benefits flowing to corporations and high-earning taxpayers. Congressional leaders aim to work closely with conservative allies to change public perceptions. Last month, in an email under the mocking subject line “doomsday,” House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., noted the announcement by the Sinclair Broadcast Group of plans to give a $1,000 bonus to almost 9,000 employees as a result of the tax bill. Ryan sarcastically used the word “apocalypse” when trumpeting a similar announcement earlier in the month by Comcast. Meanwhile, conservative groups and GOP-aligned super PACS have announced multimillion-dollar campaigns to publicize benefits of the taxation system. A remark last month by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ken., illustrated the importance of making a strong, after-the-fact case for a tax plan that polls show is hugely unpopular: “If we can’t sell this to the American people, we ought to go into another line of work,” he said — which is what Indivisible has in mind. Demanding a DACA fix Immigration — an issue unrelated to taxation — may be complicating Indivisible’s campaigns. Last month, the group trained its fire on Democrats in Congress who had promised to force a DACA fix before Congress went home for the holidays. But in the end, Senate Democrats, more concerned about blame for shutting down the government than blowback from Dreamers and their allies, voted with Republicans to fund the government until Jan. 19. “Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer told the Dreamers to their faces that they were going to use their leverage to get the Dream Act done,” Levin said of Democratic leaders in the House and Senate. “They’re going to have a whole bunch of folks in the grass roots who are energized wondering what exactly they are voting for.” He added: “We need to make a clear distinction between the parties, and if what that takes is to vote for Dreamers, how is that a hard choice? It’s a huge strategic misstep, and it’s also morally reprehensible. That is no way to energize your base.”
12.22.2017	WASHINGTON — Congress gave final approval on Thursday to legislation to keep the government funded into January, averting a government shutdown this weekend but kicking fights over issues like immigration, surveillance and health care into the new year. The stopgap spending bill extends government funding until Jan. 19 while also providing a short-term funding fix for the Children’s Health Insurance Program, or CHIP, whose financing lapsed at the end of September. After the House and Senate succeeded in passing a $1.5 trillion tax overhaulthis week, the stopgap bill includes language to prevent automatic spending cuts that would be required to offset the tax bill’s effect on the deficit. The House passed the bill 231 to 188, with most Republicans voting for it and most Democrats opposing it. The Senate later gave its approval, as well, in a 66-to-32 vote. The extension of government funding saves Republicans from what would have been a colossal embarrassment just after they celebrated passage of the biggest tax rewrite in decades. But the lack of a resolution to several pressing issues leaves lawmakers facing a tough task when they return after the holidays, with the possibility of a high-stakes showdown when the next government funding deadline approaches. “I guess we better recharge our batteries,” said Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Senate Republican. “It seems like Groundhog Day. We get up and do the same thing over and over and over again. It’s maddening.” Separately, the House voted Thursday to approve $81 billion in additional disaster aid in response to this year’s hurricanes and wildfires. But the Senate does not plan to take action on the aid package until the new year. The failure to resolve so many issues left bruised feelings in both parties. Promised bills to shield young immigrants from deportation, extend a surveillance program, bolster the military and stabilize health insurance markets were all left for another day. Representative Nita M. Lowey of New York, the ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, declared the stopgap bill to be an “epic failure of governing.” But the disappointment was not enough to keep Congress away from its holiday break. Lawmakers needed to take action because government funding was set to lapse at the end of Friday, though as Thursday began, it was unclear whether Republican leaders would be able to find the votes they needed to avert a crisis. President Trump weighed in on Twitter in the morning, accusing House Democrats of wanting a government shutdown in order to take attention away from the tax overhaul. Representative Alcee L. Hastings, Democrat of Florida, read Mr. Trump’s tweet aloud at a House committee meeting and said that he knew no Democrat or Republican who wants to shut the government down. Mr. Trump, he said, needs to put his Twitter account “under his pillow and sleep on it rather than continue to divide this country the way that he has.” On Capitol Hill, the big question was whether enough Republicans would support the stopgap spending bill in the House in order to pass it. Many Republicans in the House have grown impatient as they seek to raise military spending. An earlier stopgap bill would have included long-term funding for the Defense Department, but Republicans ended up backing away from that approach, which would not have been able to get through the Senate. The stopgap bill does include funds for missile defense and for repairs to two Navy destroyers involved in collisions this year. House Democrats showed little willingness to support a stopgap measure as they push for other priorities, including securing a deal to shield from deportation young undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children. Such “Dreamers” will have to wait until at least January for action on that issue. “All of us as members of Congress, we’re eager to return to our families as soon as possible back across America,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas. “But our Dreamers are left with fear and uncertainty about returning to their families and about their future.” Democrats complained that Congress was lurching from one crisis to the next, with a stack of big issues still unresolved, including a long-term spending deal. “We shouldn’t be funding the government week to week, month to month, but yet my Republican friends have ended up doing just that,” said Representative Jim McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts. “They can’t seem to get their act together.” The stopgap bill provides money for CHIP and community health centers through March. And it directs the secretary of health and human services to distribute leftover CHIP funds to states with the most urgent financial problems so they do not have to shut down the program. But the $2.85 billion provided for CHIP is far less than the five years of funds that congressional leaders had promised, and it is unclear whether those funds will be adequate. Some states had already begun to inform parents that their children could lose coverage early next year if Congress did not act. The bill does not provide the certainty that state officials had been seeking. “I do not think this is anywhere close to enough money,” said Bruce Lesley, the president of First Focus, a child advocacy group. “For a $12 billion to $14 billion program, this provides less than $3 billion for what is effectively six months” — the first half of the 2018 fiscal year, which began in October. Leaders of both parties in the House and the Senate support legislation to provide five years of funds for CHIP, but they have been unable to agree on how to pay for it. The standoff over CHIP is remarkable because the program has had strong bipartisan support since it was created 20 years ago, when Bill Clinton was president and Republicans controlled both houses of Congress. It also comes after the Republicans passed the $1.5 trillion tax measure with little effort to pay for it. The stopgap bill also extends through Jan. 19 a statute that provides the legal basis for the National Security Agency and F.B.I.’s warrantless surveillance program, Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act, which is set to expire on Dec. 31. Congress will have to return to the issue of whether to impose new privacy safeguards on that program as part of a longer-term extension. The bill also includes $2.1 billion to prop up the Veterans Choice program, which pays for veterans facing barriers to care within the government’s health system to get outside help. Lawmakers have been trying for months — thus far, unsuccessfully — to reach an agreement to permanently overhaul and fund the program, and a funding extension would buy them more time.
12.22.2017	WASHINGTON — The House passed an $81 billion disaster aid package Thursday, the largest single infusion of federal relief dollars yet for areas ravaged by hurricanes and wildfires this year. The measure was approved 251-169, drawing opposition from some conservative Republicans and Democrats alike. The vote came moments after the chamber acted to avert a government shutdown, approving by 231-188 a stripped-down measure to fund the government through Jan. 19. Two Texans — Dallas Rep. Jeb Hensarling, a Republican, and Austin Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a Democrat — voted against the aid bill. The Senate quickly approved the stopgap spending bill by a 66-32 vote but is punting the disaster aid vote until at least January. Then, lawmakers will also consider a host of politically thorny issues including health care, immigration and the budget. Texas Sen. John Cornyn, the No. 2 Republican in the chamber, had warned that delaying a disaster aid vote until December risked pushing it to 2018. On Thursday, he confirmed that there's not enough time for the Senate to pass the aid bill this week. He blamed Democrats, though Republicans also want changes to the bill. The disaster aid bill nearly doubles the $44 billion request made by the White House last month, a measure that Gov. Greg Abbott and many Texas lawmakers slammed as “inadequate.” If approved by the Senate, it would bring the total dedicated to hurricane and fire-ravaged communities this year to more than $130 billion. The emergency aid would provide $26 billion for community development block grants, which would help Texas, Florida and island territories rebuild, along with Western states recovering from wildfires. It would also direct almost $28 billion to the government’s chief disaster aid account — the Federal Emergency Management Agency — $4 billion of which could be used to help cash-strapped governments such as Puerto Rico’s stay afloat. More than $12 billion would go to the Army Corps of Engineers, primarily to repair structures damaged by natural disasters. There's also money for schools, small business loans and farmers whose crops were destroyed by storms. On Wednesday, Cornyn said he advised his House counterparts to “please pass something” so that the Senate could quickly take it up. The concern is that “the longer we have to wait, No. 1, our needs are not going to be met and No. 2, the opportunities to get a supplemental passed are going to sort of fade away as we get busy doing other things,” he told The Dallas Morning News. Texas Sen. Ted Cruz said he spoke with Abbott on Thursday and that the governor expressed "serious concerns" that the bill doesn't direct nearly enough resources to Texas, given the magnitude of the devastation. "I am hopeful when this body returns in two weeks that we will work together in a bipartisan way to ensure that the promises made to the state of Texas are fulfilled and that the resources are there to help our state rebuild," Cruz said. Doggett cited the Senate's inaction — along with the decision to delay a long-term extension of the Children's Health Insurance Program and resolution on the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals — as reasons he joined many Democrats in voting against the aid bill. He called the vote "largely symbolic" and said "the real disaster here is this Republican Congress which shows such indifference to the needs of so many while showering tax breaks on the fortunate few." Hensarling has previously voted against disaster aid packages because of concerns about adding to the national debt and the failure to overhaul the National Flood Insurance Program. He cited those reasons again Thursday, joining a number of conservatives who slammed the measure because it wasn't offset with spending cuts. "The loss and hardship families and communities face because of these storms and fires, especially in my home state, is heart-wrenching, but I have not changed my opinion on the need to offset the funding and bring greater accountability to how this money is spent," he said in a prepared statement. The measure would be the third major relief package approved by Congress in the wake of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria and wildfires this year. Friendswood Rep. Randy Weber is also among the Texans concerned that, despite the size of the $81 billion request, the state won’t see enough direct federal aid to help rebuild from the August storm. It is unclear what Texas would see in federal assistance as the majority of money will be distributed through a competitive grant process. “We’re very concerned. When you talk about a geographical area, the number of people with financial impact, Texas was the hardest hit,” said Weber, a Republican who represents parts of the Gulf Coast. Houston Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat who voted in favor of the measure, called the funding package "woefully insufficient" but said it will "deliver a much-needed infusion of revenue to repair badly damaged infrastructure and advance the arduous task of recovery." Abbott has asked Washington to approve a wish list of over $60 billion in Texas Harvey aid, though much of his 300-page request entailed ambitious long-term flood control projects, instead of just restoring what was damaged by the storm. Last month, he blasted the White House’s $44 billion request as "completely inadequate" and said it "does not live up" to what President Donald Trump has pledged in recovery aid. In a statement late Thursday, Abbott said the vote is a "step in the right direction, but more needs to be done to ensure the funds Congress provide address the critical needs Texans are enduring from the largest natural disaster in our state's history. We look forward to working with the Senate to improve the disaster funding to ensure it addresses the acute needs of Texans."
12.20.2017	WASHINGTON — The House, forced to vote a second time on the $1.5 trillion tax bill, moved swiftly to pass the final version on Wednesday, clearing the way for President Trump to sign into law the most sweeping tax overhaul in decades. House lawmakers approved the tax bill 224 to 201 on Wednesday, after being forced to vote on the bill again after last-minute revisions were made to the Senate bill, which passed that chamber 51 to 48 early Wednesday morning. The final House vote was essentially a formality, as the changes, which were made to comply with Senate budget rules, did not significantly alter the overall bill. But the need for a second vote gave ammunition to Democrats, who had already accused Republicans of trying to rush the tax overhaul through the House and Senate. “We are five days away from Christmas, but it feels like Groundhog Day,” said Representative Louise M. Slaughter, Democrat of New York, who denounced the process by which Republicans undertook their tax rewrite as “nothing short of an abomination.” Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas, said, “We will be cleaning up this mess and the blunders in this bill all of next year.” The tax rewrite is the biggest legislative achievement for Republicans since they gained full control of Congress and the White House. The tax bill delivers deep and permanent tax cuts for corporations while providing temporary tax cuts for individual taxpayers, including the wealthiest Americans. The overhaul drops the corporate rate to 21 percent, from 35 percent, as Republicans seek to boost American competitiveness and spur economic growth. In addition, it provides a tax break to owners of pass-through businesses, whose profits are taxed through the individual code. The bill also cuts taxes for individuals, including a lower top rate of 37 percent, down from 39.6 percent. It nearly doubles the standard deduction and doubles the child tax credit, and it also doubles the size of inheritances shielded from estate taxation, to $22 million for married couples. But Republicans set the individual tax cuts to expire after 2025 in order to make the bill comply with budget rules. President Trump speaks after the House passed last-minute revisions on $1.5 trillion Republican tax overhaul, marking the first major rewrite of the U.S. tax code in 31 years. In a move that drew significant criticism from lawmakers from states with high taxes, the bill caps the deduction for state and local taxes at $10,000. Twelve House Republicans voted against the tax bill on both Tuesday and Wednesday, and 11 of those members were from California, New Jersey and New York, three states with high taxes. The bill also eliminates the Affordable Care Act’s requirement that most people have health insurance or pay a penalty, known as the individual mandate, providing Republicans with a victory on health care after their previous failure to repeal and replace President Barack Obama’s health law. It also opens the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska to oil and gas drilling. Mr. Trump is scheduled to hold a “bill passage event” at the White House with lawmakers at 3 p.m. on Wednesday, where he is expected to continue his public praise of the bill’s passage. On Wednesday, Mr. Trump cheered the tax cuts on Twitter and lamented “the Fake News” and “the defeated Dems” who “demean” the cuts. Republicans passed the bill under special procedures that allowed them to avoid a Democratic filibuster in the Senate, where they have a narrow majority. But as a result, they had to abide by budget rules that limited the contents of their bill, and three provisions were deemed by the Senate parliamentarian to run afoul of those rules. Those components included a provision to allow the use of 529 savings accounts for homeschooling expenses, as well as part of the criteria for determining whether colleges and universities are subject to an excise tax imposed on their investment income. The provision naming the bill as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was deemed out of bounds, too, because it would not have a budgetary effect. Senate Democrats challenged the problematic language, which was subsequently removed from the bill, necessitating another vote in the House. “If you believe it’s an important use of the Democratic minority’s time on the Senate side to strike the title of the bill because it doesn’t actually impact deficit reduction, it is within their right,” said Representative Rob Woodall, Republican of Georgia. “Does it represent the highest and best use of their time? It does not.” But Mr. Doggett seized on the last-minute development. “It is a bill that has no name, and of course it has no heart,” he said. Mr. Doggett suggested that the bill could be called the “Donald J. Trump Windfall Bill,” arguing that Mr. Trump and his family would be enriched by the tax rewrite.
12.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee and a conferee to the House and Senate Conference Committee, spoke shortly before the vote on the House Floor on the Republican Tax Bill. You can view his full remarks here. Rep. Doggett said: “We are here solely because of Republican blunders. Hardly the first blunder -- many more blunders will need correcting in this trumped-up, partisan bill. And if President Trump blunders into signing it today, it will trigger $25 billion in Medicare cuts. This sad bill is left without any name. Well, like other towers, this towering monstrosity should be called “Trump.” The Trump Inequality Act. The Trump Family Enrichment Act. Or perhaps just call it ‘The Whopper’ because it is a lie wrapped in lies and truth will eventually catch up with these lies.” ###
12.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee and a conferee to the House and Senate Conference Committee, spoke on the House Floor after mistakes were identified in the original bill that required a second House vote. You can view his full remarks here. Rep. Doggett said in part: “We’re here this morning solely because of a mistake. This is the blunder rule. And this is not the first big blunder in this bill, and it certainly won’t be the last. We will be cleaning up this mess and their blunders in this bill all next year.” “It’s a bill with no name. What’s the solution to that? Every time Donald Trump touches a tower, he puts his name in bold letter across it. This is the only accomplishment President Trump can point to this year, so why don’t we put his name on this bill? We could call it the Donald J. Trump Inequality Act, since it will do more than any legislation we’ve considered in recent years to widen the gap between those at the very top and the rest of us. Or we could call it the Donald J. Trump Windfall Act because he and his family are going to pocket an immense amount of money. Or we could call it the Fat Cats Get Fatter Act.” “This is a Christmas gift to those at the very top, especially to the Trump family and his billionaire buddies and other real estate moguls. They get the Christmas gift and middle-class Americans get the gift wrapping.” ###
12.19.2017	Former state Rep. Ruth McClendon, D-San Antonio, died Tuesday after an extended battle with cancer. She was 74. Bexar County Commissioner Tommy Calvert announced McClendon’s death during a Tuesday court meeting. Calvert previously served as McClendon’s intern. McClendon represented District 120 for two decades, taking office in November 1996 after winning a special election. She resigned in January 2016, having passed a bill in the recent legislative session that created an innocence commission to review wrongful convictions. In the Legislature, McClendon served two terms as chair of the House Committee on Rules and Resolutions, also serving on the House Appropriations and Transportation Committees. Before serving in the Legislature, McClendon was a member of the San Antonio City Council from 1993 until 1996, representing District 2. Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff, who served as mayor for part of McClendon’s tenure on the council, remembered her as a friend and “the go-to person” once she left for the Legislature. Wolff recalled that McClendon campaigned with him on the East Side during his 2014 primary run, a challenging election for the longtime judge. “She was one of those unique ones that had an impact and understood how to work across party lines,” Wolff said. “She stuck to her beliefs, but when it came to patching some votes together, she was effective.” In a statement, Texas House Speaker Joe Straus, R-San Antonio, called McClendon a “faithful public servant” and “tireless fighter for justice.” “She was a person of principle and decency who spoke for those whose voice is too often not heard,” Straus said. “Every one of us who served with Ruth was inspired by her integrity and tenacity, especially in the difficult final days of her service.” San Antonio Mayor Ron Nirenberg echoed Wolff’s comments, calling McClendon a “consensus builder, who used her considerable political skills to help the needy.” “As a Democrat in a Republican-controlled Legislature, McClendon managed to land on the House Appropriations Committee under two Republican speakers,” Nirenberg said in a statement. “She was a strong voice for San Antonio and her district. She wielded power gently but effectively.” U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, who began his congressional career one year before the start of McClendon’s tenure in Austin, said she was a powerful voice on City Council and in the Legislature. “Her legacy of public service continues to inspire us to work for causes she championed, including access to health care and helping all students fulfill their God-given potential,” Doggett said. “Whether it was visiting with her at her annual Western Roundup or through her efforts to expand educational opportunities for young people at the state Capitol, she worked tirelessly on behalf of others and her constituents on San Antonio’s East and Northeast Sides.”
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), issued the following statement following the passing of former State Representative Ruth Jones McClendon. Rep. Doggett said: "A powerful voice in both City Council and the Texas Legislature, Libby and I are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend Ruth Jones McClendon. Her legacy of public service continues to inspire us to work for causes she championed, including access to healthcare and helping all students fulfill their God-given potential. Whether it was visiting with her at her annual Western Roundup or through her efforts to expand educational opportunities for young people at the State Capitol, she worked tirelessly on behalf of others and her constituents on San Antonio’s East and Northeast Sides. Our prayers are with Denver and Ruth’s wonderful family." ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett |Twitter:@RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee and a conferee to the House and Senate Conference Committee, spoke twice on the House Floor against the Republican tax bill that is expected to be voted on in the House. You can view his remarks here and here. In part, Rep. Doggett said: “For those with silk stockings, it's a very Merry Christmas indeed. The billionaires’ get stuffed. Most everyone else get coal. It's like a White Elephant gift exchange – the billionaires grab the good gifts, and the leftovers go to working families though they get the bill for everything.” “They have camouflaged this corporate tax giveaway with some changes for individuals. Who gets those? Well, it's a Who's Who of not you: The Trump family, real estate moguls, and their billionaire buddies.” Here is the full text of his two House floor speeches: “For those with silk stockings, it's a very Merry Christmas indeed. You get coal. The billionaires get stuffed. It's like a White Elephant gift exchange – the billionaires grab the good gifts, and the leftovers go to working families though they get the bill for everything. And how many millions of dollars the Trump family will personally stuff in their pockets cannot be precisely determined only because of Republican collusion continuing to cover up Trump's personal tax returns. Excluding the public, refusing to even permit Democrats to offer an amendment, Republicans dumped this proposal out this weekend and now demand an immediate vote. The dangers lurking in this bill for economic opportunity – and for tax fairness – are very real, but they are overshadowed by the dangers to our democracy from these Trump tactics to impose his rule on America. Republicans decided the only way to pass their program was to hide it. Let's reject it today.” “The world's biggest corporate tax dodgers get the most out of this bill, a 40 percent reduction in the corporate tax rate, and the right to bring back those profits they have hidden in Caribbean hideaways for pennies on the dollar. Another loophole will encourage jobs in America to be exported abroad – a long commute to work if the job is in Europe or Asia. Of course, they have camouflaged this corporate tax giveaway with some changes for individuals. Who gets those? Well, it's a Who's Who of not you: The Trump family, real estate moguls, and their billionaire buddies. Disguised as a middle-class tax relief, this wretched bill targets the middle class with a dime of every dollar that is in the bill. What most Americans will really get is more debt, and the coming cuts that Republicans insist on making to Medicare, Medicaid, and educational opportunity. Tax fraud is criminal, but passing this fraudulent tax bill apparently is not.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett |Twitter:@RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett
12.18.2017	Austin Mayor Steve Adler (from left); Austin President of the NAACP Nelson Linder; Margaret Haule, with Black Lives Matter; Travis County Commissioner Jeffrey Travillion and U.S. Rep. Lloyd Dogged help unveil a plaque on Saturday commemorating the victims of an 1894 lynching. RALPH BARRERA / AMERICAN-STATESMAN The details of the Travis County lynching in 1894, based on news accounts from the time, are discouragingly sparse. Even the victims’ names are lost to history. An African-American woman working as a nurse for a white family was jailed after one of the children in her care died. Two African-American men, for reasons no longer known, were arrested as well. A white mob formed on Aug. 14, 1894, and abducted the woman and the two men from a jail about 30 miles from Austin, taking them to a field. There, they were tied to stakes and riddled with bullets. About 250 gathered Saturday afternoon in an East Austin church to remember those anonymous deaths. Later, under a steady, cold rain, most of those people huddled outside as Austin NAACP President Nelson Linder, Travis County Commissioner Jeff Travillion, Austin Mayor Steve Adler and U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett unveiled a blue-and-gold plaque in front of Wesley United Methodist Church. The plaque, headlined “Lynching in Travis County,” is the seventh such remembrance installed by the Alabama-based Equal Justice Initiative nationwide and the first from that group in Texas.No one was jailed for the killings. News reports at the time indicated that the three victims “very likely” were innocent of any crimes. “A community demonstrates its values by the plaques it puts up, by what it chooses to memorialize, what it chooses to honor,” Adler said at the event. The Equal Justice Initiative hopes to install such plaques across the country in counties where lynchings occurred, an effort to highlight a part of history consigned to the shadows. The Travis County lynching was among almost 4,400 such deaths between Reconstruction and 1950, violence that was often little noted by the press at the time and long remembered by the communities terrorized by the killings. The African-American victims included 335 in Texas between 1877 and 1950, based on research by the Equal Justice Initiative. The Rev. Sylvester Chase, Wesley United’s pastor, said his 152-year-old church was privileged to be the site of the memorial. “No one really knows their names,” he said of the three who were killed in Travis County in 1894. “But, oh, God knows their names. On this property, we say value them, because they were children of God.” The initiative, in a report on lynchings, says that almost 4,100 such killings occurred in 12 Southern states in those 73 years between the reassertion of white hegemony after Reconstruction and the real beginnings of the civil rights movement. The other 300 or so occurred outside the South in various states. That toll is about 800 more lynchings than previously thought, according to the report, which was based on new research with original sources such as newspapers and other writings. T h e m o s t l y n c h i n g s , defined as a murder through mob action, occurred in Mississippi: 654. Georgia, with 589, and Louisiana, with 549, were next. In Texas, sixth on that ghastly list, Anderson County in East Texas — Palestine is the county seat — had the most, with 22, followed by McLennan County (home to Waco) with 15 and Harrison County with 14. Three died in Caldwell County lynchings, two in Williamson County and two in Bastrop County, according to the report. There were none reported in Hays County, according to the report. Roland Hayes, who has taught history at Austin Community College for four decades, grew up in Harrison County, in Marshall. “This,” he told the crowd, “is a history that needs to be told.” The Equal Justice Initiative would tell that history in a museum it hopes to build in Montgomery, Ala. Artist renderings, shown to the Austin crowd in a chilling three-minute video, depict a square, low-slung building with floor-to-ceiling windows, in effect a long walkway around a grassy plaza in the center.
12.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee and Conferee on the tax bill Conference Committee, issued the following statement in response to Republicans releasing their final tax bill to the public. Rep. Doggett said: “This monstrosity is a bill that only Donald Trump and Republicans, who have accomplished next to nothing in this Congress, could love. It will not grow our economy, it only burdens us with an immense amount of debt. About the only jobs it creates are for clever tax lawyers and accountants to exploit the many complex special interest loopholes it creates.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett |Twitter:@RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett
12.15.2017	WASHINGTON — Democrats in Congress are growing increasingly pessimistic that an agreement to protect young undocumented immigrants from deportation can be reached this year. Laredo Democrat Henry Cuellar says it might take a miracle to get a deal done before lawmakers go home for the holidays. But immigration advocates hold out hope an agreement can be achieved in the Senate, which yet could force action in the House before likely adjournment next week. Bipartisan negotiations among senators were under way Thursday. The nearly 800,000 so-called Dreamers in jeopardy since the Trump administration canceled the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program have pressed for resolving matters this month. President Donald Trump gave Congress until early March to write legislation restoring protections, a date GOP leaders in Congress see as affording sufficient time for a solution. But advocates note that an average of 122 DACA recipients lose protections daily because their applications for renewal weren’t received by Oct. 5, the deadline the administration prescribed, resulting in a loss of protections when work permits expire. And waiting until 2018 could bring more problems because of election year pressures, they say. “You have an unfolding crisis in which young American kids are losing jobs and being exposed to deportation, and Republican leadership is saying we can kick the can down the road,” said Frank Sharry, executive director of America’s Voice, an immigrant advocacy group. In the House, Speaker Paul Ryan appears to have gained the upper hand largely due to unusual unity in his Republican caucus. That unity showed last week when 221 Republicans voted for a two-week extension to avoid a shutdown — more than the 218 needed — showing Democrats they would be unable to forge a DACA fix by withholding their votes. Another big vote to keep the government funded is scheduled next week, perhaps extending the DACA deadline until early next year. But the potential of a sufficient number of members withholding their votes and risking blame for causing a shutdown appears to have diminished. “We’re trying to put as much leverage on Republicans as we can, but they are saying early next year. I was hoping we could do it by the end of the year and maybe a miracle will happen, but I don’t see it right now,” said Cuellar, a moderate in his party. “I hate to put it so cold, but do you shut down the government for 800,000 people at the expense of 320 million Americans? That’s really what you’re looking at,” he said. San Antonio Democrat Joaquin Castro said the best chance to help the young undocumented immigrants is yet this year amid the urgency of must-pass spending bills. “Once the Congress gets beyond that, it will become harder to leverage support for DACA into successful legislation,” he said. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-San Antonio, said in a statement that he won't support spending legislation next week absent a DACA fix. “Republican leadership wants to use the successes of our Dreamers as a bargaining chip for President Trump’s anti-immigrant Christmas wish list — building an unnecessary border wall, separating immigrant families, targeting sanctuary cities, and more,” Doggett said. San Antonio Republican Will Hurd faces growing pressure to buck GOP leadership. His North San Antonio office was the target of a protest on Thursday organized by the Texas State Teachers Association. The associations says about 2,000 Dreamers are teachers in Texas. “At a time when Texas has a teacher shortage and a majority of Texas students are Hispanic, these teachers have a special ability to connect with their students and show them the importance of education,” TSTA President Noel Candelaria said. Sharry likewise took aim at Hurd. “If Hurd and other moderates stand up and tell Paul Ryan that they’re not going to vote for a (continuing resolution) unless it includes a DACA fix, it would pass,” Sharry said. “Will Hurd is in perfect position to help craft the deal. But nice statements are not going to do it. What’s needed is a firm backbone.” Hurd, who represents a predominately Hispanic district, was appointed by Ryan to a working group assigned to come up with a negotiated solution. He recently joined 33 other Republicans in a letter to Ryan urging action by year’s end. He didn’t respond Thursday to request for comment. Congress thus far has been immune to protests by so-called Dreamers and their advocates on Capitol Hill that have grown in size and frequency. On Tuesday, a group called United We Dream erected a jumbotron screen on the National Mall, in the view of Ryan’s west-facing office. Their “DreamActTron” is running videos of stories about young undocumented immigrants. Nor has Congress responded to pleas by industry leaders, the latest Thursday from the unlikely duo of Apple CEO Tim Cook and Koch Industries CEO Charles Koch. Co-writing an opinion piece in the Washington Post, Cook and Koch challenged Congress to “show the courage to embrace diversity and to do what is right. We have no illusions about how difficult it can be to get things done in Washington, and we know that people of good faith disagree about aspects of immigration policy. If ever there were an occasion to come together to help people improve their lives, this is it.” On the Senate floor Wednesday, Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., who over the years has told stories about Dreamers’ challenges, presented a detailed look at the life of Carla Martinez of San Antonio, who’s among more than 120,000 DACA recipients in Texas. Martinez, 24, who was born in San Luis Potosí, Mexico, excelled in school soon after arriving in Pflugerville at age 8. Alongside poster-size photos of Martinez, Durbin told colleagues how she’d been an honor student in high school and graduated last spring with a civil engineering degree from the University of Texas at San Antonio without benefit of Pell Grants or other assistance that is unavailable to DACA recipients. “She often had to choose between food and buying books,” Durbin said. In an interview, Martinez, an engineer-in-training at the M&S Engineering New Braunfels branch, said she plans on getting an MBA and hopes one day to establish a scholarship program to help others. “I’m greatly disappointed to hear this,” she said when told of Congress’s lack of progress. “As time goes by, I get closer to losing my career, my job and my income.”
12.14.2017	WASHINGTON – Republicans who control Congress struck a deal Wednesday on an overhaul of the tax code, but they kept details under wraps amid reports that the revised bill sweetened tax breaks for the richest Americans. The legislation would cut the top personal income tax rate from 39.6% to 37%, lower the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and allow homeowners to deduct interest only on the first $750,000 of a new mortgage, the Associated Press reported. Republicans refused to confirm those changes, and Democrats complained they were barred from seeing the bill. The new bill meshes competing tax plans that passed the House last month and the Senate in early December. Republicans are rushing with unprecedented speed to pass a tax overhaul before the end of the year, so they can claim their first major legislative agreement under GOP control of the legislative and executive branches. President Trump prodded the Republicans to pass the tax bill as quickly as possible. Trump and congressional Republicans made a tax bill their top priority after failing to overhaul health insurance and repeal the Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare. Trump promoted the bill Wednesday, saying middle-class Americans would get a sizable tax cut. That contradicts reports by congressional and independent experts, who concluded that the wealthy and corporations would get most of the benefits, many middle- and lower-income Americans would pay higher taxes in a decade, and the federal debt would grow by more than $1 trillion. At Wednesday’s meeting of a House-Senate conference committee — traditionally convened to work out differences between legislation passed by the two chambers — House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady, R-Texas, told Democrats they would see the final bill when it was finished at the end of the week. Brady said the members could express their views on it when both chambers vote on it next week. “As a candidate, I promised we would pass a massive tax cut for the everyday, working American families who are the backbone and the heartbeat of our country,” Trump said. “Now we’re just days away.” Trump said the Internal Revenue Service concluded that if a tax bill is signed by Christmas, the tax withheld from workers’ paychecks could be adjusted as soon as February. Trump said before a lunch with some members of the conference committee he would accept a top corporate rate or 21% in the bill. During last year’s campaign, Trump had said he wanted a 15% corporate rate, but 21% would provide more revenue to settle other differences in the House and Senate bills. Democrats have voted unanimously against the tax bills. Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer D-N.Y., called Wednesday morning for action on taxes to be delayed until the newly elected senator from Alabama, Democrat Doug Jones, could be sworn in. “Senate Democrats are calling on Mitch McConnell to hit pause on the tax bill,” Schumer said. Rep. Richard Neal, D-Mass., tried to postpone the hearing of the conference committee Wednesday afternoon until Jones could arrive. Brady told him the committee’s rules did not allow him to make that motion, an answer Brady repeated often as increasingly agitated Democrats tried to find out whether the committee would meet again to consider the final tax bill (it won’t), or whether there would be a formal “score” of the economic impacts of the final bill (that is likely, but Brady wouldn’t say so). Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas, said he sensed fear among the Republicans. “It is the fear that if you don’t rush this through, with no questions, no amendments, no nothing, if the American people really find out what is in this bill, they will reject it, and it will never be able to become law.” Republicans united behind the plan, saying that along with lower taxes on workers’ pay, the lower taxes will generate a stronger economy with more jobs that pay higher salaries. “We reject the idea that America cannot do any better than the status quo, which seems to be the attitude of our members across the aisle,” said Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas. Democrats argued that the true cost of the tax plan would come when increased deficits — official scorekeepers said it would add at least $1 trillion to the national debt, even after economic growth was taken into account — prompted Republicans to try to make cutbacks to Social Security, Medicare, education and the social safety net. “In America today, the very wealthy are becoming much more wealthy while the middle class continues to shrink, and your solution is to give 62% of the benefits to the top 1%?” said Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt. Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., who opposed the bill when it came up Dec. 2, said passage was inevitable. “There’s a locomotive,” he said. “It’s not stoppable.”
12.13.2017	• Republican leaders reached an agreement on a final tax bill, setting up final votes next week. • Lawmakers are expected to be briefed on the consensus deal later on Wednesday, ahead of a final vote next week. • Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, said she does not see any reason to delay the votes in light of the Alabama election The deal the committee reached would … • Lower the corporate tax rate to 21 percent; • Go into effect in 2018; • Lower the top individual tax rate to 37 percent; • Eliminate the corporate alternative minimum tax; • Allow individuals to choose whether to deduct up to $10,000 in income, sales or property taxes. Republicans hope for a vote next week House and Senate Republicans tasked with merging the two tax bills have reached agreement on a consensus bill and are expected to put it to a final vote next week. Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said on Wednesday that members will be briefed on the details later in the day and said he’s confident it will pass next week. The looming loss of the Republican seat in the Senate from Alabama adds to the pressure that party members in Congress face to ensure that their tax overhaul faces no last-minute hiccups that push the bill into next year. On Wednesday, they will look to keep the momentum going in the face of Democrats who are feeling newly emboldened. The conference committee met and Democrats expressed displeasure The conference committee that was created to merge the House and Senate tax bills began its one public meeting on Wednesday afternoon and Democrats immediately denounced the gathering as an exercise in trying to make the tax overhaul look transparent. “Let’s understand what’s happening today is a sham,” said Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, the top Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee. “Nobody ought to mistake this conference for real debate.” Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont, said the “so-called conference committee,” as he put it, “is a farce.” Members of the committee assembled for their public session in a basement meeting room in the Capitol, and the partisan skirmishing began right at the outset. Representative Richard E. Neal of Massachusetts, the top Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee, asked that the conference committee postpone its work until Doug Jones, the winner of Tuesday’s special election for Senate in Alabama, is sworn into office. The lawmaker presiding over the meeting, Representative Kevin Brady, Republican of Texas and the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said the motion was not allowed. Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas, quickly clashed with Mr. Brady over his handling of the meeting, reminding him that the session was not being conducted under “Putin rules.” Democrats also denounced the substance of the tax overhaul. “The American people are witnessing a master class in how one political party, relying on secrecy, distortion and brute force, can muscle an unpopular, deficit exploding corporate giveaway to passage,” Mr. Wyden said. “This is the ultimate betrayal of the middle class.” The gathering will be one of the final times that Democrats will be able to publicly criticize the tax legislation while being face-to-face with the Republicans who are crafting it. Thus far, they have largely assailed the partisan process and argued that the bill benefits the rich and corporations and doesn’t do enough to help the middle class. For Republicans, the public meeting is largely for show, as the final negotiations happened behind closed doors and the major details have already been agreed upon. Republicans are planning to pass the bill along party lines and have so far rebuffed Democrats’ requests to change the bill. Alabama’s election is unlikely to derail the tax bill The odds remain strong that congressional Republicans will send a consensus tax bill to Mr. Trump, despite Democrats’ upset Senate victory in Alabama on Tuesday. The news that Doug Jones, a Democrat, had defeated Roy Moore, a Republican, in the election immediately sent many liberal activists dreaming of another improbable win: blocking the tax bill. Math and momentum fueled that activist optimism. Once Mr. Jones is seated in the Senate, Republicans’ majority in the chamber will narrow to a single seat. The tax bill passed the Senate on a 51-49 vote, with one Republican, Bob Corker of Tennessee, defecting. The hope among liberals was that Mr. Jones’ victory would give other Republicans pause and delay the process of reconciling the bills. That seems unlikely to happen, however. Lawmakers have agreed on the contours of a final deal and an influential Republican, Susan Collins of Maine, said she saw no reason to wait for Mr. Jones to be seated before voting on the tax bill. However, Republicans still need to tread carefully and ensure they have enough support to get the bills over the finish line. If another Republican senator were then to defect — for example, Ms. Collins, who extracted concessions from party leadership in order to vote yes on the bill initially, but has watched some of those concessions go as yet unfulfilled — then the bill could stall. Those scenarios still appear highly unlikely. Republican leaders are prepared to hold votes early next week on the measure, well before the Alabama results are expected to be certified, making Mr. Jones eligible to be seated. Party leaders remain confident Mr. Trump will sign the bill before Christmas — most likely before Mr. Jones enters the Senate. The one wrinkle from Tuesday night, for Republicans and the bill, is that the results empower individual senators to demand even more from the leadership for their votes. Ms. Collins and Marco Rubio of Florida have both raised concerns this week about the compromise bill as it is shaping up. Party leaders may be forced to address their concerns or apply more pressure to keep them, and possibly others, in line. But even if Republicans were to defect en masse in the Senate, the tax bill could still sail to Mr. Trump — if House Republicans were to approve the version that passed the Senate. That version included some apparent drafting errors that have upset business interests, most notably the rate of the corporate alternative minimum tax. But in a worst-case scenario, party leaders could decide that bill is better than no bill at all, and promise to return to fix the provisions later — an echo of how Democrats proceeded to pass the Affordable Care Act after they lost a similarly stunning Senate special election, in Massachusetts, in 2010. Democrats tell Republicans to hit pause on tax bill Democrats are mounting a concerted, though likely fruitless, effort to get Republican leadership in the Senate to delay the tax bill vote until Mr. Jones is seated as a senator from Alabama. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, called on Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, to “hit pause on his tax bill” after the Democratic candidate won the special election for Senate in Alabama on Tuesday. “It would be wrong for Senate Republicans to jam through this tax bill without giving the newly elected senator from Alabama the opportunity to cast his vote,” Mr. Schumer said at a news conference at the Capitol on Wednesday morning. Mr. Schumer drew a parallel with the election of Scott Brown, a Republican, in a special election in Massachusetts in 2010 as Democrats were trying to enact their health care overhaul. Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon similarly said the bill should be delayed until Mr. Jones arrives, saying in a tweet “The people of Alabama have spoken.” ✔@RonWyden The people of Alabama have spoken. Republicans and the administration must drop their partisan attempts to rush a corporate handout through Congress until Senator-Elect Jones is sworn in. #GOPTaxScam 8:49 AM - Dec 13, 2017 Trump dines with Republican lawmakers Mr. Trump hosted Republican lawmakers working on tax legislation for lunch at the White House. Flanked by Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah and Representative Kevin Brady of Texas, Mr. Trump gave brief remarks on the tax plan. “We’re very close to getting it done, we’re very close to voting,” he said. The White House on Wednesday released a name of those dining with Mr. Trump, including Vice President Mike Pence, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, eight Republican senators and Representative Kevin Brady, Republican of Texas and chairman of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee. Democrats make a last-ditch effort to pressure Republicans Ahead of the Conference Committee meeting, Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee will be joined by House Democratic leaders for a noon “forum” on the Republican tax legislation. House Democrats have invited economists including Mark Zandi, of Moody’s Analytics, and Jason Furman, former chairman of President Barack Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers, to participate. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, who has come under attack from Democrats for using “fake math” to defend the Republican tax plan, was also invited. He is not expected to attend. Progressive groups hold protests in the Capitol Liberal activists are planning to fan across the Capitol on Wednesday to try to flip Republican members of Congress who they think could be persuaded to change their minds on the tax bill. Members of Housing Works, the Center for Popular Democracy, Women’s March, Hedge Clippers, People for Bernie, Strong Economy for All Coalition are planning to stage sit-ins at the offices of Senators Jeff Flake and John McCain of Arizona. Ady Barkan, a progressive activist with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis who confronted Mr. Flake on an airplane last week, is headlining the rally. According to one of its organizers, he is also hoping to have a meeting with Ms. Collins.
12.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee and a conferee to the House and Senate Conference Committee, criticized both the substance of the Republican tax bill and the secret, rushed way in which it is being enacted. You can view his full remarks here. Rep. Doggett said in part: “The greatest wrong occurring here, what we are seeing today with this authoritarian rule, with the kind of approach much closer to the third-world authoritarian figures that Donald Trump likes to be so close to, is a steady erosion of democracy in the people’s House and in this Congress.” Prior to his remarks, Congressman Doggett made repeated attempts to introduce Motions designed to ensure that Treasury Secretary Mnuchin would come before the Conference Committee and answer questions about the bill. Additionally, Congressman Doggett spoke at a rally of concerned citizens, along with Leader Nancy Pelosi and Senator Sanders, joining hundreds of advocates to condemn the Republican tax bill. You can view those remarks here. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett |Twitter:@RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett
12.11.2017	I can’t say I was surprised as they carried him to the ambulance once again, but this time with a sheet over his face. One day before his 65th birthday, my neighbor had become another statistic in the opioid epidemic sweeping the county. He had made dozens of trips by ambulance to different hospitals and gone through several follow-ups in rehab. During one of his stays in rehab, his brother asked that I help him locate and remove prescription drugs from his home before he returned. I noted more than a dozen medications, doctors and pharmacies. Like 12.5 million other abusers of prescription opioids in the country, my friend had learned to play the system. The manufacturing and distribution of opioid drugs began in earnest more than two decades ago when drug companies began marketing new drugs to treat moderate to severe noncancerous pain. Bloomberg Business Week reported that Purdue Pharma introduced OxyContin in 1996. It is a time-release pill containing an opium derivative called oxycodone. The sales pitch to doctors and pharmacies was not based on any peer-reviewed scientific research but instead on a letter to the editor published in the New England Journal of Medicine. The letter claimed only 1 percent of patients treated with narcotics would become addicted. OxyContin sales increased from $45 million in 1996 to $1.5 billion in 2002 and an estimated $1.3 billion in 2016. Opioid sales overall — there are 20 FDA-approved formulations — are estimated to have totaled $8.6 billion last year, according to QuintilesIMS Holdings Inc. In 2015, more than 20 million Americans suffered from substance abuse disorders, two-thirds of them from opioid pain relievers. U.S. Surgeon General Vivek Murthy reported annual prescriptions of opioids of all kinds numbered 289 million and reached one-third of all Americans. Drug deaths also soared: 47,055 deaths in 2014 due to drug overdoses in the country, and 6 in 10 of them were the result of opioid use. By 2016, as many as 175 Americans were dying every day from excessive prescribing of opioids. Overdose deaths due to opioids have more than doubled in the past decade. The White House Council of Economic Advisers estimates the cost of the crisis — considering spending on health care and criminal justice, lost productivity and fatalities resulting from overdoses of prescription drugs, as well as illicit opioids like heroin — was $504 billion in 2015. Given the mounting deaths, costs and public outcry, President Donald Trump in October had no choice but to address them. He declared the opioid crisis a “national public health emergency.” The immediate response by some on Capitol Hill was that this was too little, too late. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-San Antonio, referred to the declaration as “more talk than action,” noting that the president failed to request additional resources necessary to address the crisis. News reports indicate only $57,000 is in the Public Health Emergency Fund. “Had Trump declared the opioid epidemic a national emergency,” said Doggett, “under the Stafford Act they would have had access to FEMA’s Disaster Relief Fund.” The opioid crisis by its very nature is a nonpartisan issue. Its effects cut across both economic and racial boundaries. But Doggett notes that recent “Republican proposals to undo the Medicaid expansion and remove the requirement that mental health and addiction services are considered essential health benefits would undermine access to treatment for people struggling with opioid abuse.” Nearly 1.3 million people used behavioral health services in the Medicaid expansion under the Affordable Care Act, as did another 500,000 in individual marketplace plans, also made possible by the ACA. “Affordable health coverage is a key factor in overcoming addiction,” Doggett points out. The President’s Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis issued 56 recommendations for research, prevention, education and treatment. The president and Congress should move to implement as many of them as possible. But while a shotgun approach to dealing with all aspects of opioid addiction is crucial, the report fails to zero in on the main reason for the widespread availability of opioids. The manufacture, distribution and sale of large amounts of addictive prescription drugs are causing them to flood the market, and hundreds of millions of pills are making it into the black market. It has become clear that the opioid crisis was created by drug manufacturers themselves. Here’s just one example of how they wielded their influence in policymaking on drugs. The Drug Enforcement Administration began a decade ago to freeze drug shipments that posed an “imminent danger” to the community. We learned from a joint Washington Post/“60 Minutes” investigation that a few members of Congress worked with major drug distributors to pass a more industry-friendly law undermining DEA efforts to stop the flow of potentially dangerous drugs. That the April 2016 law sailed through both houses of Congress on a procedural rule with unanimous consent and received President Barack Obama’s signature shows the extent to which the drug companies have worked their influence inside the halls of Congress on both sides of the isle. More recently, Doggett has co-sponsored a bill to undo the law that crippled DEA. But Big Pharma’s influence on drug policy also extends to the executive branch, which administers the laws that regulate drugs. Rep. Tom Marino, R-Penn., the congressman who wrote the law that removed the DEA’s ability to freeze suspicious drug shipments, was nominated by Trump as his drug czar. Two days after the “60 Minutes” exposé about the new law aired Oct. 15, he withdrew his nomination. Trump subsequently nominated Alex Azar, president of the U.S. division of pharmaceutical company Eli Lilly, as health and human services secretary. As HHS secretary, he will be expected to go after drug companies on price gouging and crack down on abuses in the very industry that he has led for a decade. Doggett points out that Trump also entrusted his drug task force to a recent pharma lobbyist. The Drug Pricing and Innovation Working Group now is headed by Joe Grogan, a former lobbyist for Gilead, a company that sells its hepatitis C drug, Harvoni, for a whopping $1,000 a pill. Democrats and Republicans have benefited from millions in campaign contributions from Big Pharma over the decades. The drug industry has spent more than $900 million since 2006 to successfully lobby against any effort to even slow the rampant and deadly but very profitable proliferation of opioids in the U.S. In view of the extensive laws and regulations written by and for drug companies, Doggett’s position is that no one bill will fix the problem. It will take multiple bills addressing different issues. Two years ago, he and 10 colleagues formed the Prescription Drug Pricing Task Force to stem the rising cost of pharmaceuticals. But all its members are Democrats, and a bipartisan effort is required to successfully navigate the opioid crisis, an unlikely prospect in the sharply polarized partisan politics of today. Even government efforts, while essential, will not be enough to stem the manufacture, distribution and abuse of opioids. Drug manufacturers may have to be coerced into cooperation through massive class action tort litigation such as that brought against Big Tobacco two decades ago, resulting in a $246 billion settlement used to fund smoking prevention and cessation efforts in all 50 states. The lead attorney in the tobacco claims, Mike Moore, is reported to have met with attorneys general in at least 30 states to put together such mass toxic tort claims against Big Pharma. Unfortunately, we know from experience that litigation of this sort can take years, even decades. In the meantime, action is needed by government with the cooperation of the medical profession and pressure from all of us.
12.11.2017	The holiday seasons means making a lot of choices. Which relatives to visit? Which dishes to prepare? Which presents will you purchase to surprise your loved ones? But there is an even more important choice to be made. This Friday, Dec. 15 marks the last day when you can choose the health insurance plan that is best for you or your family; it’s important to enroll now. We are all just one traffic accident or unexpected bad diagnosis away from really needing health insurance. And having regular access to a family physician is just as valuable. While the Republican attacks to undermine the Affordable Care Act (“Obamacare” or “ACA”) are relentless, it is still the law of the land. Don’t let the debate in Washington distract you into letting the opportunity to enroll pass you by. The ACA has helped many of our neighbors obtain coverage — and the word must be spreading, because we have strong enrollment numbers this year despite the political noise. This year, folks have less time, less help, and less information to study and sign up for the most appropriate plan. President Trump cut the enrollment period in half, slashed 90 percent of public promotion funding that helps inform families about this opportunity, and eliminated 40 percent of the funding for those who help people navigate through the plan selection process. These troubling changes may mean more families miss Friday’s deadline and risk bankruptcy when surprised by a catastrophic accident or diagnosis. But amidst this obstructionism, there is some good news. Like last year, 8 out of 10 Marketplace consumers are expected to qualify for substantial tax credits. Under the ACA, when premiums increase, your tax credits also go up, likely keeping your premiums in a similar range. Many can still find plan options with premiums between $50 and $100 a month. With these barriers, we have to do even more locally to ensure that our neighbors know how to sign up. Three places where you can get free, expert help are Insure Central Texas, San Marcos Public Library, and CommuniCare Health Center in San Marcos, all available to help you research plans, networks, and formularies to figure out what plan works best for your needs. You can find a local enrollment assistance group by contacting my office or at localhelp.healthcare.gov to help you get your application in and pick the plan that’s right for you. Texans may sign up through the healthcare.gov website. Even if you have a plan already, you might have more or different options in 2018—it is still worth comparing your choices including that offered by a new insurer in our area that was not available last year. And if you do not have health insurance, open enrollment is the time to get it. If you experience a medical emergency, insurance brings financial security. Even if you do not have an emergency, it brings peace of mind. There is another downside, beside loss of financial security, for failing to exercise your rights: the IRS will reject your tax return if you fail to provide proof of insurance. The minimum penalty for not having insurance when mandated to do so is $695, and it can be much higher. Politics in Washington should not keep you from getting covered in Texas. We fought hard—and are continuing to fight hard—to keep the benefits of the Affordable Care Act. During open enrollment this year, from now until Dec. 15, make one of this year’s most important decisions. Sign up! Folks can receive free help and assistance in signing up for health care coverage at these locations: San Marcos Public Library 625 E Hopkins Street San Marcos, TX 78666 Phone: 512-393-8200 Enrollment help on Mondays, 9-5 (only two more Mondays until Dec. 15 though) CommuniCare Health Center 2810 Dacy Lane, Kyle, TX 78640 Call 210-233-7157 for an appointment. Doggett represents the 35th Congressional district, which includes San Marcos
12.08.2017	Democrats on the tax-bill conference committee are asking Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to appear to back up his claims about the bill's growth effects. In a letter Thursday, the five House Democrats asked Mr. Mnuchin to provide the conference committee with a copy of the agency’s economic analysis of the tax plan and to appear before them, along with the director of Treasury’s Office of Tax Analysis, to explain their findings. Mr. Mnuchin has repeatedly said a Treasury analysis shows the tax plan would generate enough economic growth to pay for itself, and at one point said it would pay down the debt. But the agency has never released the analysis to the public, and some Democrats have begun to question whether one exists at all. The Treasury inspector general has launched an inquiry into Mr. Mnuchin’s claims and Treasury’s work, including whether the secretary misled the public about the analysis. The authors of the letter—Reps. Richard Neal of Massachusetts, Lloyd Doggett of Texas, Sander Levin of Michigan, Raul Grijalva of Arizona and Kathy Castor of Florida—pointed out that “numerous independent experts” have found the bill would not generate enough growth to offset its costs. “We would like to hear from you as a witness from the administration to share your opposing views and supporting evidence,” they said. A Treasury spokeswoman did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Kate Davidson
12.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House Democratic Members of the Conference Committee on the Republican tax bill urged Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin to provide a copy of any Treasury Department analysis of the economic impact of this legislation and to appear before the Conference Committee for questioning about it and other issues. Secretary Mnuchin had said in September that 100 people at Treasury were “working around the clock” to produce the analysis. The Inspector General at the Treasury Department has already opened an inquiry based upon a November 30 request from Senator Elizabeth Warren regarding possible suppression of the report for political reasons. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) said, “A promised report, once presented as essential, now appears to have disappeared. Nor has a single Administration witness come before either the House or Senate to defend and answer questions about this far-reaching tax legislation. Especially with the views of Trump officials varying so widely from the analyses of the vast majority of economists, obtaining the Treasury Department’s work is important. A prompt answer to our request can respond to the one anonymous economist at the Office of Tax Analysis, who maintains that the reason the promised analysis has not been released is because no such analysis exists.” A signed version of the letter is attached and the text of letter is below. December 7, 2017 The Honorable Steven Mnuchin Secretary Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20220 Dear Secretary Mnuchin: Now that conferees will soon be meeting to adjust the differences between the House and Senate on tax legislation, we hope that you will appear before us to review it with us. In September, you said that “not only will this tax plan pay for itself, but it will pay down the debt.” You have said that over 100 people in Treasury are “working around the clock on running scenarios for us” to produce an analysis supporting this conclusion. We respectfully request a copy of this Department of Treasury analysis of the tax bill’s economic impact, and that you, along with the Director of the Office of Tax Analysis, appear before the Conference Committee to explain its findings and to respond to other concerns. Numerous independent experts have found that this tax bill would raise taxes on millions of Americans, produce little economic growth, and add trillions to the national debt. We would like to hear from you as a witness from the Administration to share your opposing views and supporting evidence. Numerous economists and economic analyses of the tax bill contradict the Administration’s views, including: The Joint Committee on Taxation which found that economic growth would not make up for $1 trillion worth of the new debt it creates. A University of Chicago survey of prominent economists, which found that only one of 38 respondents believed that the Republican tax bill would lead to “substantially higher” higher economic growth. Chief Moody’s Analytics economist Mark Zandi, who explained that the Republican plan “does little to boost growth because it will increase rates and debt.” Republican economist Douglas Holtz-Eakin, who said in May that “there’s just no evidence that the tax cuts actually pay for themselves.” Bruce Bartlett, a former top economic advisor to Ronald Reagan, who has called the claim that tax cuts can pay for themselves “complete nonsense.” President George W. Bush’s former Treasury Secretary, Paul O’Neill, was “dumbfounded by the notion that the tax cuts…would not add to the debt.” Your former employer, Goldman Sachs, which concluded that “the effect in 2020 and beyond looks minimal and could actually be slightly negative.” Everyone, on both sides of the aisle, agrees that this legislation will remove popular deductions for many Americans. They agree that in the immediate term it will add over $1 trillion dollars to the debt, and, under current law, will require cuts to Medicare, farm subsidies, and other essential programs. Your views, especially to the extent that they rely on evidence different from the experts cited above, would be very helpful as we continue to consider the impact of this legislation. We hope you will appear before the committee. Sincerely, Congressman Richard Neal Congressman Lloyd Doggett Congressman Sander Levin Congressman Raúl Grijalva Congresswoman Kathy Castor ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett |Twitter:@RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett
12.07.2017	(WASHINGTON) - A new report released today by Americans for Tax Fairness exposes just how much the pharmaceutical industry stands to gain if the Trump-GOP tax plan becomes law. The report examines the profits, taxes, and drug prices of the 10 biggest U.S. pharmaceutical companies, the “Pharma Big 10”: Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, Merck & Co., Gilead Sciences, AbbVie, Amgen, Eli Lilly & Co., Bristol-Myers Squibb, Biogen and Celgene. The report, The Pharma Big 10: Price Gougers, Tax Dodgers, finds that these 10 companies: jacked up the prices for 31 of their most widely-prescribed drugs by at least 40% and as much as 71% over a period from 2011 to 2015; saw their profits jump by 39% over the same four-year period; have $506 billion in un-taxed profits stashed offshore; owe an estimated $133 billion in taxes on those profits, if they are repatriated to the U.S. at the current tax rate; and will get an an estimated tax cut of $80 billion on their offshore profits if the Trump-GOP tax bill becomes law. The $80 billion in tax breaks the Trump-GOP tax plan will give these 10 drug companies would pay for a year-and-a-half of Medicaid drug spending or five years of healthcare for 9 million kids under the Children’s Health Insurance Program. “This important new report highlights what we already know—pharmaceutical companies are gouging the public with outrageous prescription drug prices, while dodging tens of billions of dollars in U.S. taxes on their offshore profits,” said Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT). “But instead of doing anything to rein in these tax dodgers, the Republican tax plan rewards drug companies with massive tax cuts on their current and future offshore profits. These corporations can no longer be allowed to rip off Americans, who already pay the highest prescription drug prices in the world. Instead of giving big pharmaceutical companies that are sheltering their profits overseas a massive tax break, we must demand that they pay their fair share of taxes so that we can rebuild the disappearing middle class.” “As American taxpayers pay top dollar for drugs, drug manufacturers pay low dollar on their taxes by exploiting loopholes to avoid their fair share of the costs of our national security, education system, and medical research,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett (D, TX-35), who is the ranking member on the Tax Policy Subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee. “The pending Republican tax bill will only worsen this offshore tax dodging. Their tax scam rewards the same companies that deny access to life-saving medications for too many Americans and force others to ration costly doses.” “The massive tax cuts being forced through by Donald Trump and the GOP are a huge giveaway to the drug industry, whose price gouging and tax dodging is hurting seniors, families and taxpayers,” said Frank Clemente, Executive Director of Americans for Tax Fairness. “This report uncovers the extent to which drug companies have jacked up prices to reap enormous profits and used special tax breaks and loopholes to dodge paying their fair share. It adds to the increasing evidence that the Trump-GOP tax plan is a scam that rewards the well-connected at the expense of working families.” The full report can be found HERE.
12.06.2017	When the tower chimed at noon today, graduate student workers across campus dropped their grading pens and gathered on the South Mall, where they protested a proposed bill that would tax graduate student’s tuition waivers as income. A few hundred students left their duties Wednesday to gather in the cold rain and stand against the bill. Some graduate student workers have tuition waived as a benefit for working in research or as teaching assistants, and many say taxing the waivers would make it even more difficult to survive in Austin under small University wages. Anna Lyon, American studies graduate student and co-organizer of the event, said the tax bill would be particularly devastating to graduate student workers who already come from a marginalized community, such as students of color, first-generation students and students from working class backgrounds. “It’s particularly important that we do not let those students receive the brunt of this burden,” Lyon said. “They’re such a vital part of our community that we really need to send through the fact that those are the first people who will be affected by this.” Baseline compensation for graduate workers in the College of Liberal Arts is $15,074 per school year without tax, according to a press statement from the walkout organizers. Broken down, this becomes $1,256 per month. The average rent in Austin for a one-bedroom apartment is over $1,000 per month. Co-organizer of the walkout Robert Oxford said graduate student workers are already scraping to get by and many take second and third jobs to make ends meet. “The University knows from internal reviews and external reviews that its funding packages for graduate students don’t keep pace with the standard of living in Austin,” said Oxford, an American studies student. “As Austin becomes increasingly more expensive to live in, there’s been little effort from the University to address the graduate student standard of living.” Art history graduate student Elizabeth Welch said she makes between $12 and $15 per hour, which is not a living wage in Austin. In the wake of this tax bill, she hopes the University will find a way to pay student workers more so they can make tax payments on tuition waivers, something she called an “imaginary income.” “If they count our tuition remission as income, then we’ll be making less money because we have to pay taxes on that fictional income that we never see,” Welch said. “That (tuition waiver) goes straight from the tower to the tower. It goes from one UT bank account to another UT bank account, it never touches us.” University spokesman J.B. Bird said in an email the University is aware of the graduate student complaints, and has plans to collaborate with lawmakers to discuss the tax bill’s impact. “We are closely monitoring progress on the Senate tax bill and have reached out to various members of Congress to discuss potential impacts on university students,” Bird said. “We plan to continue to work with our lawmakers so that tax-relief does not increase college costs and student debt or impact the quality and accessibility of education.” U.S. Representative Lloyd Doggett, who represents Texas’ 25th district, offered an amendment that would maintain the tax exemption for tuition waivers, and has said he stands with graduate students on this issue. “As a Longhorn myself and the husband of a Longhorn with two UT graduate degrees, I also recognize the vital role that you play at our University,” Doggett said in a statement to graduate students. “I strongly oppose increasing your taxes in order to provide more tax breaks to multinational corporations. This struggle is not over.” The walkout was initiated by a small number of students in the American studies program. The Graduate Student Assembly supported it and recruited other interested parties to make it a larger event. The bill would tax students for money they don’t get, said Kareem Mostafa, assembly president and civil engineering graduate student. He said financial struggles facing graduate students are not the University’s fault, but the continuation of a pattern of declining state funding for education in Texas and in the nation. “This hurts, the whole situation of going after graduate education,” Mostafa said. “The fight is not students versus the tower, because the tower already knows it and the tower already does what it can to mitigate the issue. The fight is students versus legislators.” Chase Karacostas, city and state senior reporter, contributed to this article.
12.05.2017	Republicans have celebrated since Saturday the passage of their tax bill through the Senate, but on Monday night some key GOP members were thinking of another measure -- one to keep the federal government funded -- when they threatened to vote against a routine step to send the tax plan to a conference committee. Senate Republicans passed their tax bill in the early hours of Saturday morning and now Republicans across the Capitol are bracing themselves for their next challenge: conference -- and even that step looked at least for a few moments Monday evening to be in jeopardy. The House of Representatives formally voted 222-192 Monday night to go to conference committee on the tax bill, where it will work to iron out key differences between its bill and the Senate's. The House later Monday evening appointed the conferees, the select lawmakers tasked with trying to deliver the reconciled tax bill to President Donald Trump's desk before Christmas. The office of House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wisconsin, said he had named as conferees GOP Reps. Kevin Brady of Texas, Devin Nunes of California, Peter Roskam of Illinois, Diane Black of Tennessee, Kristi Noem of South Dakota, Rob Bishop of Utah, Don Young of Alaska, Greg Walden of Oregon and John Shimkus of Illinois. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-California, announced her choices as Democratic Reps. Richard Neal of Massachusetts, Sander Levin of Michigan, Lloyd Doggett of Texas, Raúl Grijalva of Arizona and Kathy Castor of Florida. There had been some unexpected drama earlier on what was a routine vote. The vote was tied for a period as some Republicans made a show of their displeasure with plans to implement a two-week continuing resolution to fund the government beyond the current deadline scheduled for Friday. Republican leaders have said their plan will extend government funding until December 22, while some members of the conservative House Freedom Caucus wanted to keep funding going until the end of December so as not to vote right before Christmas. After some negotiating, several members changed their votes to yeses, which allowed the bill to pass, though no apparent promises have been made to Freedom Caucus members. Other Republicans were livid with the caucus, with Rep. Tom Rooney of Florida saying he had no idea how you would vote against going to conference on a tax bill you just supported. Republicans have a big job ahead of them as major differences remain between the Senate and House tax bills. For one, the Senate bill repeals the individual mandate, which requires individuals to buy health insurance or face a fine. The House bill did not repeal it. The Senate bill also kept intact the alternative minimum tax, which the House repealed. The Senate also sunset tax cuts for individuals, something the House bill kept permanent. The broad contours of the two bills remain the same, but the regional differences that complicated the tax bill as it moved through the House and Senate are also likely to pop up again in conference. For example, northeast and California Republicans have advocated to restore more state and local tax deductions than are currently in the two chambers' bills. And Republicans in both the House and Senate have argued that larger tax breaks should be given to so-called pass through businesses. Most of the work of the conference committee will happen in private negotiations between leadership and committee staff as they tackle one of the most challenging aspects of the negotiations: ensuring that the bill meets special Senate rules. Under reconciliation -- the process that gives Republicans the ability to pass their bill with just 51 votes in the Senate -- Republicans cannot produce a bill that adds to the deficit after 10 years. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell will also appoint conferees. The Senate is expected to vote to go to conference later this week. This story has been updated and will continue to update with additional developments.
12.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, issued the following statement after Michael Flynn, former National Security Advisor for President Trump and top Trump campaign official, pleaded guilty to lying to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) about his contacts with Russian authorities. Rep. Doggett said: “The wheels of justice turn slowly, but despite Donald Trump’s repeated obstructionism, they still turn. Former Trump National Security Advisor Michael Flynn’s guilty plea and the report that a senior Trump transition member directed his contact with Russians indicates there is much more yet to come. To prevent further Russian meddling, we still need a truly independent investigation, not one subject to more Republican interference.” ###
12.01.2017	Lloyd Doggett: Even with good insurance, out-of-network bills can bring out-of-control costs. Re: “Billings for visits to ER stun patients; Docs often out of network,” front page, Nov. 24: Health insurance enrollment season is now through December 15. EnrollSA (www.enrollsa.com) offers free counseling on the best plan for you. But even with good insurance, out-of-network bills can bring out-of-control costs. Insurers separate providers between those “in” and “out” of their network. Admission to an in-network hospital and requesting covered providers is no guarantee against getting socked with a shockingly high bill from a provider outside your insurance network. Medical expenses are high enough; imagine being surprised by a $10,000 bill after surgery when you thought you were fully covered. Patients, and their pocketbooks, are innocently caught in the middle of billing differences between insurers and providers. That is why I introduced the End Surprise Billing Act, one of many health care improvements we need, which would protect patients from these out-of-network bombshell bills. My legislation requires advance notification regarding any out-of-network providers for which you could be billed for an elective procedure, along with an estimate of your out-of-pocket costs. In an emergency, such as a car crash or when otherwise unable to consent to higher out-of-network rates, you would be protected from paying more than you would pay an in-network provider. This legislation would have protected the Pettit family, on whom this newspaper reported, and many other consumers from being abused by surprise bills. Unfortunately, special interests are blocking action on this legislation in Congress. Surprise billing is a complex problem, but my legislation could help protect patients from suffering financial wounds as their bodies heal. U.S. Rep Lloyd Doggett, a member of the Subcommittee on Human Resources, represents District 35.
11.30.2017	Members of Indivisible Austin blocked traffic at Sixth and Lavaca on Monday to protest the GOP tax plan outside of U.S. Sen. John Cornyn's Downtown office. (Photo by Jana Birchum) U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett was in town last Tuesday for a Texas Public Interest Research Group press conference at Escuelita del Alma, devoted to the TexPIRG's annual "Trouble in Toyland" report on dangerous toys (www.uspirg.org). Afterward, we spoke briefly about recent congressional business, beginning with the September failure of the GOP majority to repeal Obamacare. He emphasized that Austinites should not be discouraged, and need to maintain the pressure on elected officials to do the right thing. "It was a great victory on health care, and reason to have hope, with people speaking out and refusing to take no for an answer, when millions would lose health care coverage," he said. "While the courageous votes by [GOP senators] John McCain and Susan Collins made a difference, that would not have happened without the steady demands of people across the country that the Affordable Care Act be protected." He said the same should be true of the tax bill. "The impact is likely to be more far-reaching than the repeal of Obamacare," he continued, "and whether we can stop it in the Senate depends on continued public outcry, against legislation to give more to people at the top and multi-national corporations, and to pile on mountains of debt at the expense of middle-class and working folks ... and the destruction of the social safety net." Asked if he found it hard to focus on constituent service like the "Trouble in Toyland" effort while the entire structure of representative government appears threatened by the Trump administration, Doggett said, "Occasionally, I'm able to make a small difference for a family here, when I can't change a practice in Wash­ing­ton. ... The fact that we kept every [House] Democrat and picked up 13 Republicans against this [tax] bill, is encouraging, and sets the foundation for action in the Senate. I remain hopeful that we'll get enough people saying no, and that we'll be able to stop the bill." A version of this article appeared in print on December 1, 2017 with the headline: Doggett: Keep the Pressure On
11.28.2017	U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett was in Austin last week, on a brief information tour of his Congressional District 35 (Austin/San Antonio), devoted primarily to a joint effort with the Texas Public Interest Research Group publicizing their 32nd annual “Trouble in Toyland” report itemizing dangerous children’s toys during the holiday season. Doggett also spoke to the Chronicle briefly about the state of policy debates in Washington – and urged his constituents to maintain the pressure on Congress to defend the Affordable Care Act and oppose the current corporate-friendly GOP tax cut bills. “Even in a state like [Texas],” Doggett said, “where most elected officials are not going to cast the vote that most people want, they still need to hear from folks.” Doggett spoke during a TexPIRG-sponsored press conference at Escuelita del Alma, the preschool where he said two of his grandaughters had been “proud graduates” before moving on to Austin public schools. Doggett was introduced by Bay Scoggin of TexPIRG, who summarized three categories of dangerous toys that the group is highlighting this year: those using contaminants or toxic materials like lead, those with parts that present choking dangers to infants and toddlers, and (a new category) those potentially representing a threat to the privacy of children. Scoggin displayed two types of “Fidget Wild” fidget spinners that in design look relatively harmless, but that tests determined contained as much as 300 times the permissible amounts of lead. Left unsupervised by adults or older children, the spinners represent a danger of prolonged lead ingestion by small children. The spinners had been on sale at Target stores, but educational and public pressure generated by TexPIRG, Scoggin said, had persuaded the company to remove them from the shelves. “Over the last 30 years,” Scoggin said, TexPIRG research and activism has resulted in “more than 150 recalls and other actions to get dangerous toys off the shelves.” Doggett addressed the perennial choking threat of certain toys, which include common items like balloons but also larger toys, like dolls that are often packaged with small accessories that can get into the hands (and mouths) of children too young for them. Other small toys – magnets, beads, and the like – might look like candy, but when ingested by toddlers or infants, can become health threats and often require surgery to remove. Doggett praised groups like TexPIRG and cited the Consumer Product Safety Commission, but added, “There is no substitute for careful parental supervision” concerning their children’s toys. He recommended using a toilet paper cylinder as a handy measuring device for determining if toys or toy parts are small enough to create a hazard. Scoggin noted a new danger represented by high-tech toys, like dolls, that use Bluetooth connections to hear and respond to children’s voices, and then upload those exchanges to unprotected servers – creating both an invasion of privacy by the manufacturers and indirectly an invitation to hackers who can readily access the information. “Children are supposed to be protected under a variety of privacy laws,” he said, but enforcement is too often lax, and parents need to remain vigilant. The full TexPIRG report is available at the U.S. PIRG website (www.uspirg.org), with more detailed information about dangerous toys, and specific advice for parents and families shopping for holiday gifts for children. Doggett added that previous reports still available online feature dangerous toys that may have been discontinued, but “turn up at flea markets or garage sales.”
11.27.2017	
11.27.2017	Humanities Texas is pleased to announce thatVictoria Longoria of Del Valle High School is one of 13 recipients of the 2017 Humanities Texas Outstanding Teaching of the Humanities Award. U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett presented Longoria with her $5,000 award during a ceremony at Del Valle High School on Monday, November 27. Humanities Texas presents annual statewide awards to encourage excellence in teaching and recognize Texas classroom teachers who have made exemplary contributions in teaching, curriculum development and extracurricular programming. The organization received nearly 700 nominations for the 2017 awards. Longoria, who has taught English for over 20 years, currently teaches 11th grade AP English Language and Composition at Del Valle High School. In 2016, she was a state semi-finalist for the HEB Excellence in Education Lifetime Achievement Award. “Victoria Longoria engages her students to view our world through literature and history. Her students gain an introduction to global citizenship,” said Congressman Doggett. “From my mini-town hall conducted today before presenting her award, I could see how well informed her students are about the challenges our country faces.Through her efforts these DVHS Cardinals are able to see the ‘human’ in ‘humanities.” “She is a steward of the humanities,” said Principal David Williams of Longoria. “She strives to authentically engage her students, reward successes and meet their individual needs. She dedicates her summers to professional development, treks the globe and actively seeks out opportunities to hone her craft throughout the year.” Longoria is an avid proponent of fostering a global perspective within her students. In addition to choosing international texts, she also aligns her English curriculum with the history department, collaborating on an interdisciplinary approach to deepen her students’ understanding of both subjects. She frequently attends both local and international seminars to bolster her own understanding of the material she teaches. “While STEM seems to garner all the glory these days, humanities holds the human context of education,” said Longoria. “It is imperative that education embrace the humanities in order for future generations to promote the betterment of people, social equity and a responsible citizenry.” “Humanities Texas is pleased to recognize the achievements of Victoria Longoria and Del Valle High School,” said Humanities Texas Executive Director Michael L. Gillette. “Longoria inspires and motivates her students to succeed in the classroom and beyond.” Longoria will receive a $5,000 cash award, with an additional $500 for Del Valle High School to purchase instructional materials. Humanities Texas is the state affiliate of the National Endowment for the Humanities. Its mission is to advance education through programs that improve the quality of classroom teaching, support libraries and museums and create opportunities for lifelong learning for all Texans. Humanities Texas is currently accepting nominations for the 2018 Outstanding Teaching Awards. Additional information about Humanities Texas and its teacher award program is available at www.humanitiestexas.org. You can find this press release on the Humanities Texas website here.
11.26.2017	WASHINGTON - On MSNBC this week, Lloyd Doggett sounded a tone of resignation while trying to puncture the seeming inevitability of Republicans’ legislation to overhaul the American tax system. “I view the bill as a giant political life preserver for Republicans who’ve been unable to get anything else done this year and haven’t given a lot of thought to the real impact on Americans of adding so much debt, a trillion so dollars,” Doggett said. As his party’s ranking member on the House Ways and Means tax-writing panel, Doggett, D-San Antonio, is cast in the role as a main Washington critic of the GOP tax plan, which is moving swiftly. and perhaps inexorably, to final passage. The House advanced its version on Nov. 16. After the Thanksgiving break, the Senate will take up its own draft of a significantly changed tax system, which differs in some ways but, like the House version, aims to cut taxes by more than $1 trillion over a decade and simplify the tax code. Doggett and the Democrats argue that both versions overwhelmingly favor the wealthy. Intrigue remains, with the potential of several Republican senators to block the legislation. It could be deficit hawks worried about red ink, perhaps Bob Corker of Tennessee and Jeff Flake of Arizona, neither of whom are seeking re-election. Maine’s Susan Collins could be another obstacle for the GOP given her dislike of the Senate’s surprising add-on repeal of a key Affordable Care Act provision. There’s unpredictable Arizona Sen. John McCain and others who may demand changes, among them Rand Paul of Kentucky, Ron Johnson of Wisconsin and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska. When the action begins, Doggett, a 12-term veteran and tax policy enthusiast, will be on hand to counsel colleagues from the other side of the Capitol privately while publicly pressing his case. “It’s close enough that the odds are against us but that we can still make a difference,” Doggett said in an interview.With time running out - President Donald Trump this week promised people “a huge tax cut” for Christmas - Doggett is realistic. He sees GOP chances at winning the historic tax overhaul at slightly better than 50-50. Beyond the appeal of lower taxes and easier filing in the House and Senate bills, Doggett and critics are contending with diminished media attention because of the focus on sexual harassment, the Alabama special Senate election and an ongoing glut news. What’s more, the simplification bill is enormously complex - the House version runs 440 pages, the Senate's 515 - laden with phrases such as pass-through companies, repatriation and family flexibility. “It’s a difficult environment,” Doggett said. Doggett is a former Texas Supreme Court justice who occupies an oft-shifting district that stretches along Interstate 35 from San Antonio to Austin. He stays well-armed to ward off serious challengers, none of whom have emerged; his $3.8 million campaign fund exceeds that of any Texan in the U.S. House. Doggett, 71, is an unabashed liberal who has repeatedly sought to use House rules to demand release of the president’s tax returns. He has been unsuccessful. He has established himself as a favorite over the years with like-minded advocacy groups. “He’s been our leader for a long time,” said Winnie Stachelberg, executive vice president of the Washington-based Center for American Progress. Doggett trains some of his barbs at the Republicans’ stated goal of enticing companies sheltering assets abroad to relocate in the United States.“He’s got this great ability to understand the nuances and intricacies of tax policy and budget and yet be able to convey in terms that all of us can understand,” she said. House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wisc., said this week: “In a stroke, our bill offers less incentive for companies to move capital, income and intellectual property out of the U.S. to lower tax climes.” But in Doggett’s analysis, an investor would have little reason to choose Texas over Germany. “In San Antonio, your profits will be taxed at 20 percent. If you invest in Stuttgart under their bill, the taxes are alleged to be 10 percent. But, in fact, there are complex provisions of this bill that I think will make the tax rate in Stuttgart essentially zero,” he said. Education has been another of Doggett’s focuses in Congress. As part of the Obama administration’s stimulus programs eight years ago, Doggett authored the American Opportunity Tax Credit, enabling refundable credits for certain tuition and schooling expenses. Roughly 30 percent of students take advantage. Now, echoing universities and graduate students, Doggett points to provisions in the House bill which by most accounts would hike the cost of college. One provision would eliminate the student loan interest deduction, which enables people repaying college loans to save up to $2,500. Another would end grad students’ exemption from taxes on the waivers covering tuition. “I have had graduate students tell me that they would have to drop their program if this happens because they’re basically getting by on very little now as they do their doctoral and master’s programs,” Doggett said. On a recent PBS news show, Doggett's challenge and the gulf between the parties showed in his pairing with U.S. Rep. Kevin Brady, R-The Woodlands, the Ways and Means chairman and principal author of the tax bill.The Senate Finance Committee balked at some of the changes in writing its version, but the two chambers would need to rectify differences before final passage. “This is a good day for the American people,” Brady exclaimed. “We’ve really stripped the tax code down to its fundamentals and we’re rebuilding it based on what our businesses and families need these days, not 30 years ago." Replied Doggett: “You know, sometimes, I believe that my Republican colleagues live in a parallel universe.”
11.22.2017	SAN ANTONIO - The Texas Public Interest Group released its annual report of the list of dangerous and toxic toys being sold on store shelves. Today, the consumer group held a press conference along with U.S. representative Lloyd Doggett and doctors from the Children's Hospital of San Antonio to discuss the dangers. They showed a few examples of hazardous toys including a fidget spinner that contained high amounts of lead and the Party Time My Friend Cayla Doll that was a privacy concern. "This doll is capable of listening to the answers of young children and responding. What we found is that this doll is actually recording those responses and storing them as data. That is a real problem for all of the kids who have this doll," said Bay Scoggin, TexPIRG spokesman. Dr. Mark Gilger showed another example of a toy that was made up of multiple magnet balls that come apart and look like candy to little kids. "We actually got them banned from the market about 5 years ago and it plummeted the number of injuries we were seeing with kids. But they're back," said Gilger. "Even our teenagers, they take them to mimic piercing's of the nose and the mouth and the lips and the tongue. They inadvertently swallow one and they got the same problem." The magnet balls can cause severe damage to the intestine and often, require surgery to remove them. "As you can guess, doing surgery to take a little toy out of a baby makes no sense at all," said Gilger. Representative Doggett also, warned of making toy purchases outside of the major retailers. "The TexPIRG and the national PIRG have been successful in getting toys off the market but that doesn't mean they aren't still available for sale. Here in our area, families will be doing their shopping in a flea market or a garage sale," said Doggett. For the full list of toys in this year's Trouble in Toyland report, click here.
11.20.2017	One patient got a $3,606 bill for a four-mile ride. Another was charged $8,460 for a trip from a hospital that could not handle his case to another that could. Still another found herself marooned at an out-of-network hospital, where she’d been taken by ambulance without her consent. These patients all took ambulances in emergencies and got slammed with unexpected bills. Public outrage has erupted over surprise medical bills — generally out-of-network charges that a patient did not expect or could not control — prompting 21 states to pass laws over the years protecting consumers in some situations. But these laws largely ignore ground ambulance rides, which can leave patients stuck with hundreds or even thousands of dollars in bills and with few options for recourse, finds a Kaiser Health News review of 350 consumer complaints in 32 states. Patients usually choose to go to the doctor, but they are vulnerable when they call 911 or get into an ambulance. The dispatcher picks the ambulance crew, which may be the local fire department or a private company hired by the municipality. The crew, in turn, often picks the hospital. Moreover, many ambulances are not summoned by patients, but by police or a bystander. Betsy Imholz, special projects director at the Consumers Union, which has collected more than 700 patient stories about surprise medical bills, said at least a quarter concern ambulances. “It’s a huge problem,” she said. Forty years ago, most ambulances were free for patients, provided by volunteers or town fire departments using taxpayer money, said Jay Fitch, president of Fitch & Associates, an emergency services consulting firm. Today, ambulances are increasingly run by private companies and venture capital firms. Ambulance operators now often charge by the mile and sometimes for each “service,” such as providing oxygen. If the ambulance is staffed by paramedics rather than emergency medical technicians, that will result in a higher charge — even if the patient didn’t need paramedic-level services. Charges range from zero to thousands of dollars. The core of the problem is that ambulance companies and private insurers often can’t agree on a fair price, so the ambulance service doesn’t join the insurer’s network. That leaves patients stuck with out-of-network charges that are not negotiated, Imholz said. This happens to patients frequently, according to a recent study of more than half a million ambulance trips taken by patients with private insurance in 2014. The study, by two staffers at the Federal Trade Commission, found that 26 percent of these trips were billed on an out-of-network basis. That figure is “quite jarring,” said Loren Adler, co-author of a recent report on surprise billing. The KHN review of complaints revealed two common scenarios leaving patients in debt: First, patients get into an ambulance after a 911 call. Second, an ambulance transfers them between hospitals. In both scenarios, patients later learn the fee is much higher because the ambulance was out-of-network, and after the insurer pays what it deems fair, they get a surprise bill for the balance, also known as a “balance bill.” The Better Business Bureau has received nearly 1,200 consumer complaints about ambulances in the past three years; half were related to billing, and 46 mentioned out-of-network charges, spokeswoman Katherine Hutt said. While the federal government sets reimbursement rates for patients on Medicare, it does not regulate ambulance fees for patients with private insurance. Those patients are left with a highly fragmented system in which the cost of a similar ambulance trip can vary widely from town to town. There are about 14,000 ambulance services across the country, run by governments, volunteers, hospitals and private companies, according to the American Ambulance Association. (The Washington area reflects that mix.) For a glimpse into the unpredictable system, consider the case of Roman Barshay. The 46-year-old software engineer, who lives in Brooklyn, was visiting friends in the Boston suburb of Chestnut Hill last November when he took a nasty fall. Barshay felt a sharp pain in his chest and back, and he had trouble walking. An ambulance crew responded to a 911 call at his friends’ house and drove him four miles to Brigham and Women’s Hospital, taking his blood pressure as he lay down in the back. Doctors there determined he had sprained tendons and ligaments and a bruised foot, and released him after about four hours, he said. After Barshay returned to Brooklyn, he got a bill for $3,660, or $915 for each mile of the ambulance ride. His insurance had covered nearly half, leaving him to pay the remaining $1,890.50. “I thought it was a mistake,” Barshay said. But Fallon Ambulance Service, the private company that brought him to the hospital, was out-of-network for his UnitedHealthcare insurance plan. “The cost is outrageous,” said Barshay, who reluctantly paid the bill after Fallon sent it to a collection agency. If he had known what the ride would cost, he said, he would at least have been able to refuse the ride and “crawl to the hospital myself.” In a statement, UnitedHealthcare said: “Out-of-network ambulance companies should not be using emergencies as an opportunity to bill patients excessive amounts when they are at their most vulnerable.” “You feel horribly to send a patient a bill like that,” said Peter Racicot, senior vice president of Fallon, a family-owned company based outside Boston. But ambulance firms are “severely underfunded” by Medicare and Medicaid, Racicot said, so Fallon must balance the books by charging higher rates for patients with private insurance. Racicot said his company has not contracted with Barshay’s insurer because they couldn’t agree on a fair rate. When insurers and ambulance companies can’t agree, he said, “unfortunately, the subscribers wind up in the middle.” It’s also unrealistic to expect EMTs and paramedics at the scene of an emergency to determine whether their company takes a patient’s insurance, Racicot added. Ambulance services must charge enough to subsidize the cost of keeping their crews ready around the clock, said Fitch, the ambulance consultant. In a third of the cases where an ambulance crew answers a call, he added, they end up not transporting anyone and the company typically isn’t reimbursed for the trip. In part, Barshay had bad luck. If his injury had happened just a mile away — inside Boston’s city limits — he could have ridden a city ambulance, which would have charged $1,490, according to Boston EMS, a sum that his insurer probably would have covered in full. Very few states have laws limiting ambulance charges, and most state laws that protect patients from surprise billing do not apply to ground ambulance rides, according to Brian Werfel, a consultant to the American Ambulance Association. And none of the surprise-billing protections apply to people with self-funded employer-sponsored health insurance plans, which are regulated only by federal law. That’s a huge exception: 61 percent of privately insured employees are covered by self-funded employer-sponsored plans. Some towns that hire private companies to respond to 911 calls may regulate fees or prohibit balance billing, Werfel said, but each locality is different. Insurers try to protect patients from balance billing by negotiating rates with ambulance companies, said Cathryn Donaldson, a spokeswoman for America’s Health Insurance Plans. But “some ambulance companies have been resistant to join plan networks” that offer Medicare-based rates, she said. Medicare rates vary widely by geographic area. On average, ambulance services make a small profit on Medicare payments, according to a report by the Government Accountability Office. If a patient uses a basic life support ambulance in an emergency in an urban area, for instance, Medicare payments range from $324 to $453, plus $7.29 per mile. Medicaid rates tend to be significantly lower. There’s evidence of waste and fraud in the ambulance industry, Donaldson added, citing a study from the Office of Inspector General at the Department of Health and Human Services. The report concluded that in 2012 Medicare paid more than $50 million in improper ambulance bills, including for supposedly emergency-level transport that ended at a nursing home, not a hospital. One in 5 ambulance services had “questionable billing” practices, said the report, which noted that Medicare spent $5.8 billion on ambulance transport that year. Most complaints reviewed by Kaiser Health News did not appear to involve fraudulent charges. Instead, patients got caught in a system in which ambulance services can legally charge thousands of dollars for a single trip — even when the trip starts at an in-network hospital. That’s what happened to Devin Hall, a 67-year-old retired postal inspector in Northern California. While he faces Stage 3 prostate cancer, Hall is also fighting a $7,109.70 bill from American Medical Response, the nation’s largest ambulance provider. On Dec. 27, 2016, Hall went to a local hospital with rectal bleeding. Because the hospital didn’t have the right specialist to treat his symptoms, it arranged for an ambulance ride to another hospital about 20 miles away. Even though the hospital was in his network, the ambulance was not. Hall was stunned to see that AMR billed $8,460 for the trip. His federal health plan, the Special Agents Mutual Benefit Association, paid $1,350.30 and held Hall responsible for $727.08, records show. (According to his plan’s explanation of benefits, it paid that amount because AMR’s charges exceeded the plan’s Medicare-based fee schedule, which is based on Medicare rates.) But AMR turned his case over to a debt collector, Credence Resource Management, which sent an Aug. 25 notice seeking the full balance of $7,109.70. “These charges are exorbitant — I just don’t think what AMR is doing is right,” said Hall, noting that he had intentionally sought treatment at an in-network hospital. He has spent months on the phone calling the hospital, his insurer and AMR trying to resolve the matter. Given his prognosis, he worries about leaving his wife with a legal fight and a lien on their Brentwood, Calif., house for a debt they shouldn’t owe. After being contacted by Kaiser Health News, AMR said it pulled Hall’s case from collections while it reviews the billing. After further review, company spokesman Jason Sorrick said the charges were warranted because it was a “critical care transport, which requires a specialized nurse and equipment on board.” Sorrick faulted Hall’s health plan for underpaying, and said Hall could receive a discount if he qualifies for AMR’s “compassionate care program” based on his financial and medical situation. “In this case, it appears the patient’s insurance company simply made up a price they wanted to pay,” Sorrick said. In July, a California law went into effect that protects consumers from surprise medical bills from out-of-network providers, including some ambulance transport between hospitals. But Hall’s case occurred before that, and the state law doesn’t apply to him because of his federal insurance plan. The consumer complaints reviewed by Kaiser Health News reveal a wide variety of ways that patients are left fighting big bills: • An older patient in California said debt collectors called incessantly, including on Sunday mornings and at night, demanding an extra $500 on top of the $1,000 that his insurance had paid for an ambulance trip. • Two ambulance services responded to a New Jersey man’s 911 call when he felt burning in his chest. One of them charged him $2,100 for treating him on the scene for less than 30 minutes — even though he never rode in that company’s ambulance. • A woman who rolled over in her Jeep in Texas was charged a $26,400 “trauma activation fee” — a fee triggered when the ambulance service called ahead to the emergency department to assemble a trauma team. The woman, who did not require trauma care, fought the hospital to get the fee waived. In other cases, patients face financial hardship when ambulances take them to out-of-network hospitals. Patients don’t always have a choice in where to seek care; that’s up to the ambulance crew and depends on the protocols written by the medical director of each ambulance service, said Werfel, the ambulance association consultant. Sarah Wilson, a 36-year-old microbiologist, had a seizure at her grandmother’s house in rural Ohio on March 18, 2016, the day after having hip surgery at Akron City Hospital. When her husband called 911, the private ambulance crew that responded refused to take her back to Akron City Hospital, instead driving her to an out-of-network hospital that was 22 miles closer. Wilson refused care because the hospital was out-of-network, she said. Wilson wanted to leave. But “I was literally trapped in my stretcher,” without the crutches she needed to walk, she said. Her husband, who had followed by car, wasn’t allowed to see her right away. She ended up leaving against medical advice at 4 a.m. She landed in collections for a $202 hospital bill for a medical examination, a debt that damaged her credit score, she said. Ken Joseph, chief paramedic of Emergency Medical Transport, the private ambulance company that transported Wilson, said company protocol is to take patients to the “closest appropriate facility.” Serving a large area with just two ambulances, the company has to get each ambulance back to its station quickly so it can be ready for the next call, he said. Patients such as Wilson are often left to battle these bills alone, because there are no federal protections for patients with private insurance. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), who has been pushing for federal legislation protecting patients from surprise hospital bills, said in a statement that he supports doing the same for ambulance bills.
11.17.2017	WASHINGTON — In a big victory for Texas Republican Kevin Brady, the House passed a sweeping tax overhaul Thursday on a narrow party-line vote, setting up a showdown in the Senate that will test the unity of the GOP’s slim majority. The 227-205 vote brought President Donald Trump a step closer to a long-held GOP campaign promise: Dramatically cutting the rates for corporations, individuals and families, while taking away many deductions and credits. Taxes, on average, would go down, Republicans said. But Democrats and some independent analysts predicted uneven benefits from the GOP legislation, which they said would further enrich the wealthy, deepen deficits and increase the overall tax burden on as many as 36 million middle-class Americans. Significant changes are expected in the Senate, possibly even including the repeal of the individual mandate under former President Barack Obama’s Affordable Care Act. That provision was added to the Senate version Tuesday, cheering hard-right conservatives still smarting from their defeat on repealing Obamacare. But it also set up a battle that could narrow the Trump administration’s prospects for a much-needed legislative victory in Congress. Brady and House Speaker Paul Ryan, who was cheered by Republicans on the House floor, promised across-the-board tax relief for middle-class Americans, with an average savings of $1,182 for a typical family of four. “You pass this bill, you grow the economy,” Ryan said in a final appeal before the vote. Despite a closed-door, GOP pep rally with Trump at the Capitol, 13 Republican lawmakers voted against the House bill — none from Texas. Facing unified Democratic opposition, Republicans could afford to lose only 22 votes from their side. But even with the defections, the vote represented a career capstone for Brady, a Republican from The Woodlands and one of the chief tax-writers in Congress as chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. For Brady, a longtime Houston congressman, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was the culmination of several years of internal GOP negotiations balancing lower tax rates, fewer credits and deductions, and large corporate tax breaks. The result, he vowed, would be simpler tax accounting, bigger paychecks and more plentiful work from strong economic growth and business dynamism. He also called it the most significant rewrite of the U.S. tax code since the presidency of GOP icon Ronald Reagan, who signed a major tax reform bill in 1986 with bipartisan support. “With this historic bill we’ll provide real simplicity for every taxpayer, and we’ll deliver real fairness to every hardworking American,” Brady said in the final House debate. “Washington special interests who are now being propped up by absurd carve-outs and loopholes, get ready to stand up on your own.” Brady acknowledged, however, that the House vote is only step one. “There are still some areas where we will and can make improvements,” he promised lawmakers wary of jettisoning popular middle-class tax deductions for mortgage interest and state and local taxes. Democrats and some mainstream economists cast doubt on the promise of a tax-cut-fueled economic boom, while Republicans from high-tax states like New York, New Jersey and California balked at the prospect of facing constituents with bigger tax bills. Critics also pointed to estimates that GOP tax cuts would shrink federal revenues by some $1.5 trillion over the next decade, forcing cuts in major social programs like Medicaid and Medicare. Those deficit concerns appear to have sealed the opposition of centrist Democrats that Brady and others had courted. “It is easy to vote for a tax cut,” said Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer of Maryland. “It is harder to pay for what we buy.” Brady and other GOP leaders argue that the official estimates of lost revenue don’t take into account the economic stimulus of the tax cuts, which some conservative economists believe would pay for themselves. For Republicans, one of the chief selling points of the tax legislation would be the lowering of the top corporate rate from 35 percent to 20 percent, which is intended to spur domestic investment. But Republicans still face significant obstacles in the Senate, where at least two members of their caucus — representing the difference in their 52-48 majority — have expressed doubts in recent days. One, Wisconsin Republican Ron Johnson, said he opposed both versions of the tax bill because they favor large corporations over smaller so-called pass-through businesses. Another, Susan Collins of Maine, one of three Republicans who voted against a GOP effort to repeal Obamacare, said she has concerns about taking away that law’s individual mandate. A number of independent analyses have estimated that the House bill, though it lowers tax rates and doubles the standard deduction for families and individuals, could still end up costing taxpayers more in lost deductions, especially those in wealthy areas with high property values. State, local taxes The House bill would repeal most state and local taxes except for real estate taxes, which would be capped at $10,000. It also would limit the mortgage interest deduction to $500,000 of a loan. The Senate version would repeal all state and local tax deductions, though it would maintain the current mortgage write-off. Some Democrats also lamented the loss of working-class write-offs for certain types of educational, work, and medical expenses. “This is not the American Dream tax plan. This is the American nightmare, a tax scam of the worst proportions,” said Houston Democrat Sheila Jackson Lee, warning that the lost deductions could be a setback for constituents trying to rebuild their lives after Hurricane Harvey. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett of San Antonio, the senior Democrat on the Ways and Means tax-writing panel, delivered a scathing appraisal on the House floor that included a jab at Alabama GOP Senate candidate Roy Moore. “The promise of tax reform has degenerated into little more than a scam to aid tax dodgers,” Doggett said. “While public attention is diverted to scandal in Alabama, Republicans rush through this sham of a tax bill, developed in the dark with lobbyists, before most Americans realize what is about to hit them in the face.” But U.S. Rep. Will Hurd of San Antonio, targeted like many other Republicans on the tax plan, said the need for revising the tax system is long overdue. Potential Democratic challengers showed up this week at his North Side office to assail Hurd on taxes. Republicans hope to get a final bill through the Senate around Thanksgiving, giving House and Senate negotiators time to hash out differences and get a bill to the president’s desk before the end of the year. But they know they have little room for error. Democrats, meanwhile, are seeking to exploit potential GOP differences over tax cuts that they say would most likely be financed by deficit spending. House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, making her closing argument against the bill, said, “Oh where, oh where are the deficit hawks?” Washington Bureau Staff Writer Bill Lambrecht contributed to this report.
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON — Republicans on Thursday pushed through the House a massive $1.5 trillion overhaul of the nation's tax code, clearing a critical hurdle in the party's warp-speed sprint to achieve a major legislative victory by the end of the year. The bill, approved 227-205 with no Democratic support, would fuel far-reaching tax cuts in Texas and beyond, particularly on the business side. But its axing of prized breaks — and the fact that some relief expires over time — means also that millions would see their tax bills increase. And other significant roadblocks lie ahead, since the Senate GOP has taken a far different approach in revamping the tax code. The House bill's passage, backed by all Texas GOPers, nonetheless marked an accomplishment that was no sure bet even just a couple weeks ago. And House Republicans, who rallied at the Capitol with President Donald Trump, cheered the result as a once-in-a-generation win. "This bill is squarely focused on providing more jobs, fairer taxes and bigger paychecks to Americans of all walks of life — especially low- and middle-income families," said Rep. Kevin Brady, R-The Woodlands, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. Democrats, however, cast the GOP's sweeping overhaul as something more nefarious. They blasted the measure as a giveaway to the richest of the rich. They bemoaned a process that allowed a complex bill, largely crafted in secret, to go from introduction to passage in two weeks. They questioned why the GOP wasn't balking at adding billions of dollars to the national deficit. And while Democrats were powerless to stop the legislation, they pledged to keep making their case. "It threatens our country," said Austin Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a senior Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee. "The reason they are trying to rush it through at such high speed is they don't want Americans to really know what's about to hit them." GOP's broad focus The House GOP tax revamp, a bill that runs more than 430 pages, maintains a broad focus on lowering tax rates for businesses and individuals, eliminating most tax breaks in an effort to streamline the code and recalibrating how the business tax system works. Independent analyses have found that the legislation would, on average, lower the tax burden at every income level. But those same studies show that the benefits would tilt toward wealthier earners, while many middle-income Americans would end up paying more taxes. That's because the House GOP plan, at least on the individual side, features a series of tradeoffs. Tax rates come down. But breaks on medical expenses, student loan interest, and state and local income and sales taxes go away. The standard deduction increases, as does the child tax credit. But the personal exemption goes away, and a new $300 personal credit expires after five years. Twitter Ads info and privacy And Democrats have zeroed in how that differs from the GOP's approach on the business side. The added business perks, such as a corporate rate drop to 20 percent, account for most of the bill's cost. But those gains, which also feature lower rates for pass-through businesses that pay taxes on their owners' personal returns, don't come at the sacrifice of as many existing breaks. "It is a stunning thing that will tax millions of middle-class families, it will increase our deficit harming our future — all this to give tax breaks to corporate America," said California Rep. Nancy Pelosi, the House's top Democrat. Republicans counter that such math doesn't account for how the business tax cuts will spur economic growth that will flow down to workers. "That is a secondary benefit that a lot of people are looking at and saying, 'I may not personally benefit at the individual level, but I'm going to benefit Twitter Ads info and privacy Measure passes easily That back-and-forth marked the partisan debate leading up to a House vote lacking in drama. Republican leaders reportedly didn't require much effort to whip up the necessary votes, though Trump's visit just before the vote likely removed any doubt. And that fait accompli, which saw 13 GOP defections, resulted in part from earlier negotiations to resolve issues big and small. Consider the Republicans from high-tax states like New York who complained that losing the state and local deduction would hammer their constituents. GOP leaders brought enough of them back on board by restoring the property tax break, albeit with a $10,000 annual cap. Or Rep. Joe Barton, R-Ennis, who raised concern that a provision on tax-exempt bonds would throw the city of Arlington a curve on its financing for the new Texas Rangers stadium. GOP leaders have pledged to take up the issue in conference committee negotiations with the Senate. Or Rep. Roger Williams, R-Austin, who fought a plan to eliminate businesses' ability to deduct interest in exchange for a different perk. He said that would crush businesses, such as his car dealership, that finance their inventory. So GOP leaders agreed to a limited exemption. "The idea of taxing an expense doesn't work," Williams said. "So we got that fixed." Senate bill is different But those deals — and the House GOP bill, at large — could all be subject to change. Senate Republicans have followed the same general framework as their counterparts on the other side of the Capitol. But they have also diverged in critical ways, raising the prospects that the two chambers may not be able to resolve the differences. The Senate repeals Obamacare's individual mandate. The House does not. The Senate keeps breaks for medical costs, student loan interest and teacher expenses. The House does not. The Senate keeps the estate tax, albeit with a bigger exemption. The House does not. And there's more. The Senate bill eliminates the state and local deduction in total. It delays the corporate rate cut for a year. And after its most recent set of changes, the legislation would allow all of the tax cuts on the individual side to expire after a decade — punting the decision to a future Congress. Any number of those components could unwind the coalition the House GOP crafted with care. And there are doubts about whether Senate Republicans will wrangle enough votes for passage, particularly after Sen. Ron Johnson, R-Wis., announced his opposition to the legislation. But on Thursday, at least, Republicans remained bullish about their prospects. "Today was a major step," Brady said at a post-vote news conference, where he received hearty applause from his GOP colleagues. "This is certainly not the last step in our tax reform journey.
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, delivered remarks on the House Floor in opposition to Republican tax bill H.R. 1, ahead of its scheduled vote today. You may view Rep. Doggett’s full remarks here. Rep. Doggett said: “The promise of tax reform has degenerated into little more than a scam to aid tax dodgers. While public attention is diverted to scandal in Alabama, Republicans rush through this sham of a tax bill, developed in the dark with lobbyists, before most Americans realize what is about to hit them in the face. “Instead of more jobs at home, Republicans create a giant, new, gaping loophole to ship even more jobs abroad. Even Speaker Paul Ryan’s home-state Republican Senator, Ron Johnson, concedes that under this bill ‘there will be a real incentive to keep manufacturing overseas.’ Hardly a surprise, since President Trump’s Wall-Streeter designated to run this show, was just identified, personally, from leaked Bermudan documents, as a past executive of not one, but 22 island tax-paradise shell companies. “Meanwhile, another loophole, carried interest, that flows to plutocrats like Donald Trump—that’s the very injustice he promised last year to stop – will keep flowing right into their pockets. But as for the deduction for student interest for those overwhelmed with college loans, like other middle-class tax provisions, that’s part of $65 billion in education tax assistance cut by this bill. They are totally dependent upon alternative facts. Today’s bill even authorizes the biggest tax dodgers who want to pay absolutely zero in taxes by abolishing the alternative minimum tax. That one change in one year would have put $31 million in Donald Trump’s pocket. “So Trump has very good reason to visit this Capitol today—just to say thank you for the estimated $1 billion plus that is estimated to go to the Trump family under this bill. ‘When does my tax refund get here?,’ he must be saying. But, of course, we do not know precisely how much he will be personally enriched, because House Republicans are still colluding to hide his tax returns. “Republicans want to apply a ‘dynamic score’ to this bill. I say, create a dynamic workforce. Invest in people; do not overwhelm us with endless debt. Develop a more competitive, healthy workforce, that empowers our Dreamers and other immigrants, that gives every American access to education and skill upgrades to achieve their full, God-given potential. “As they deny one middle-class deduction after another and impose a new Alzheimer’s tax, Republicans claim that they have a patented tax miracle cure for most everything but baldness. “We’ve seen this traveling trickle-down medicine side-show before. It didn’t work then, it won’t now. All they are doing is grabbing for a political life-preserver after ten months of Republican failures but leaving Americans drowning in debt. This isn’t tax reform; it’s a giant giveaway to Washington special interests that must be stopped.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett |Twitter:@RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett
11.16.2017	Donald Trump is back from Asia. What do you think he’ll be doing next? A) Pardoning the Thanksgiving turkey. B) Urging Congress to pass a clean, simple, middle-class-friendly tax bill. C) Pardoning Sean Hannity. The answer is A, obviously. Turkey gets a reprieve on Tuesday. And rumors that the president has ordered the execution of all turkeys previously pardoned by Barack Obama are not true. It was a joke on a website. Stop telling people that! But about the tax bill — things are getting a whole lot grislier than they are on the turkey front. Republicans desperately need to pass some kind of tax cuts, just to prove their majority is capable of doing something more exciting than renaming post offices. Voting starts this week, but now they’ve really muddied up the game. People, if you were advising the Republicans on how to get a tax bill passed despite their infinitesimal majority in the Senate, would you suggest they: A) Get Roy Moore to endorse it. B) Add an assault on Obamacare. C) Get rid of the part where you raise taxes on teachers who buy supplies for their classes. O.K., you’re a terrible politician. Republican leaders thought carefully and decided the best strategy was to attack Obamacare. Which worked so well for them last time around. (Perhaps you are wondering about option C. Under the current Republican plan, teachers would still lose their princely maximum-$250 tax deduction for purchasing school supplies for their students. However, the bill is not heartless. Tax breaks for golf courses are unscathed.) “How about ending the unfair & highly unpopular Indiv Mandate in OCare & reducing taxes even further?” Trump tweeted from Asia. The individual mandate is the part that requires everyone to have insurance. Without it, the whole system could fall apart. For a while, almost everybody ignored him. The only Republican senator who was really lobbying for a tax-bill assault on Obamacare seemed to be Rand Paul, who is now hobbled by injuries he suffered when a neighbor tackled him while he was mowing the grass. We are still a little mystified by why this happened. Another neighbor told reporters it was a landscaping issue. It does not seem to have been related to health care, and thankfully, the senator has really excellent coverage. But here’s the question. Why is the Senate choosing to totally complicate its tax-cut pitch, poisoning any possibility of bringing along moderate Democrats, by tossing in an all-out assault on the Affordable Care Act? A) Rand Paul made them do it. B) Trump told them: “Get rid of Obamacare or the turkey dies.” C) Republicans wanted more money for multinational corporations. Honest to God, it’s C. Just the other day, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell told a gathering of C.E.O.s that cutting the individual mandate out of Obamacare would save the government $330 billion over 10 years. That $330 billion, McConnell said, would allow them “to make permanent the corporate tax rate” and “puff up some of the middle-class tax relief that we would like to puff up.” The puffing would not be permanent, by the way. One of the grandest things about the new Senate version of the tax cuts is that stuff for multinational corporations is meant to last forever, while stuff for middle-class taxpayers would fade away after a decade. All these changes happened so swiftly and silently, almost nobody could immediately figure out what was going on. “We learned about this latest version at 10:30 last night,” said Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon on Wednesday. Wyden is the top Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee. He asked for a summary of what the new, thick, deeply complicated bill would do. “They all looked at us and said, ‘Why?’” “What is making you do this to us?” cried another Democratic senator. Over in the House, Representative Lloyd Doggett of Texas complained that the Ways and Means Committee had devoted “less time to hearings on this bill than it takes to microwave popcorn.” Everything’s so frenetic it’s hard to know what’s going on. The House Republicans, in a moment of large-heartedness, seem to have given up on the idea of killing a tax deduction for adoptions. Graduate students in work-study programs, however, had better keep their eyes open. And the chances that the whole package will keep the deficit from exploding are pretty minimal. Representative John Larson of Connecticut, one of the Democrats on the House tax-writing committee, says a Republican leader told him they would work everything out in the long run by cutting back on entitlements like Medicare. We are expecting to hear a lot more of that discussion in days to come. Really, Trump’s staff probably went through a more careful process picking out a turkey for him to pardon. And we’re looking forward to that already. Will he say anything to the turkey? Wait for the turkey to pay him a compliment? It’s not as if he’s much of a fan of non-red meats. Now steak is another matter. Do not ever expect Donald Trump to pardon a steer. Or lead a party.
11.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, participated in a gathering outside of the U.S. Capitol to urge rejection of the Republican tax scam (H.R. 1), which would jeopardize health care for millions and give tax breaks to the wealthiest few and multinational corporations. You may view Rep. Doggett’s full remarks taken on Facebook Live here. Excerpts of Rep. Doggett’s remarks are as follows: “Yesterday, the Republicans realized that raising taxes on 36 million American households, which is what their bill does, wasn’t enough. Now they’ve come forward in the Senate with their fanatical zeal against Obamacare. It is a sneak attack to destroy one of the pillars of the Affordable Care Act – it will eventually mean that people with a pre-existing conditions and older Americans will not be able to afford health insurance. And it is with the same zeal that Americans speaking out will stop them in the United States Senate. We now have a chance to protect health care once again. “Why is it that Republicans need to tax so many, and do so much harm? It’s all about financing tax cuts for those that are sitting way atop the economic ladder. And the giant multinational corporations that have exported so many American jobs think they’re entitled to pay next to nothing for our national security, education, and justice systems. They have a giant new loophole in this bill to outsource American jobs. They provide an incentive for corporations to invest abroad instead of investing here in America. We will see a growth in jobs alright, but it will be in China, in Europe, and that’s a mighty long commute for American workers. I believe we need to treat everybody equally and not tax profits over there at less than profits get taxed here. “We need to focus on investing in people, on upgrading our skills, and providing more educational opportunity, knowing that we will be competitive if every American is able to obtain the education they need to achieve their full God-given potential. That’s where Democrats are, and if we reject this bill, if we spread the message to our neighbors across this country, we can have a new day in America where we don’t have tax shams, but we have greater opportunity for all Americans.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett |Twitter:@RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett
11.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, spoke three times on the House Floor against the House Republican tax bill (H.R. 1). Excerpts of Rep. Doggett’s remarks are as follows, with links to his full speeches: Rep. Doggett: “One Minute Longer Than All Hearings on Republican Tax Scam”: “One minute—only one minute? Well one minute is longer than all of the hearings held by Republicans on this sham of a tax bill – so broad in impact, yet so shallow in analysis. One minute – that is more time than any Trump Administration official had the courage to face our committee to be questioned about this lousy proposal. “One minute— more time than all the businesses and economists to evaluate these far-reaching corporate giveaways. Why should a tax bill that’s so broad get less hearing time that it takes to microwave popcorn? Haste does make waste. This tax plan, borne in the shadows, and rammed through committee and the House, will lay waste to family budgets, lay waste to affordable health care, and undermine national debt. The tax scam must be rejected. If we speak out and remain firm in our resolve, we will defeat this sham of a bill.” Rep. Doggett on the Republican Tax Bill’s “Alzheimer’s Tax”: “This wretched Republican tax bill threatens the health of millions. It is amazing that on this Alzheimer’s Awareness Month, they celebrate by imposing a new ‘Alzheimer’s tax.’ Families paying thousands of dollars to care for a loved one would lose the right they have today to deduct those huge expenses, and it’s not just a tax on Alzheimer’s but on any substantial health care expense. As if that weren’t bad enough, in the Senate bill, they pursue their fanatical zeal to destroy Obamacare, and yet again would remove one of the key pillars that would lead to denying coverage for those with pre-existing conditions because their premiums will soar. It will mean millions of Americans will lose health care coverage. Protect your health. Reject this sorry Republican tax bill.” Rep. Doggett on Rejecting the Republican Tax Scheme & Protecting Health Care Access: “It was not only the courageous votes of John McCain, Susan Collins, and other Members in the Senate who stopped this wretched health care bill that passed through the House, but also that Americans kept saying: No, don’t take the right that my family has to get access to a family physician. Don’t take away my neighbors’ or church members’ right to get access to protect their family with health care. Today, we learn that the Senate tax bill is being changed to do just that. It is another assault on the Affordable Care Act. The Senate has declared that they will end forever the individual responsibility portions of the Affordable Care Act. Those are the provisions that ensure all Americans will participate, so that we have the largest risk pool and people don’t sign up for coverage after they are sick and after they have a problem.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett |Twitter:@RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett
11.15.2017	Young immigrant Rosa Fernandez, 10-year old sick in the hospital after surgery awaiting deportation, Congressman Joaquin Castro attempting to change her status, along with Congressman Lloyd Doggett, former Councilwoman Maria Berriozabal, Henry Rodriguez, Priscilla Martinez, issuing an update on little Rosa's status, Congressman Joaquin Castro's activist mother, Rosie, judicial candidate Monique Diaz, Tony Mandujano, activist Tony Diaz, Adrian Flores,Jose Carrasquillo El Padrino, Ernest Martinez, Johnathan Ryan, Esmareldo Pruneda. Press Conference at the Federal Building, on Cesar E. Chavez Boulevard, attendees, media, signs
11.12.2017	President Trump has defended the Republican effort to overhaul taxes by calling it a bitter pill for the rich, saying its provisions will boost the middle class and make him a “big loser” if it’s approved. But tax experts and a nonpartisan analysis suggest he’ll fare far better than others as a result of the changes. From sweeping estate and business tax cuts to specific relief targeting real estate interests, the tax overhaul would directly benefit Trump’s family and business in a way that could save him tens of millions of dollars a year. Provisions favorable to Trump can be found in the Republican tax bills from both the House and the Senate, the latter of which debutedThursday. They would offer terms favorable to America’s ultra-wealthy and preserve exemptions and carve-outs for golf course owners, investors and real estate entrepreneurs. “The notion that the president wouldn’t benefit is absurd,” said Steven M. Rosenthal, a senior fellow at the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center who has reviewed the bills. “In either plan, he benefits immensely.” Trump has refused to release his tax returns, making it hard to know precisely how much he would stand to gain from a tax code overhaul. But one change in the House plan affecting only multimillionaires, a repeal of the estate tax, could save his family $1 billion or more. Other tweaks would be similarly lucrative: Seth Hanlon, an economic adviser to the Obama White House and a senior fellow at the left-leaning Center for American Progress, estimated that the House bill could save Trump roughly $23 million a year. The plans contain key differences and could still change as Republican tax writers prepare a combined bill to send to Trump’s desk. White House officials have argued that the highest earners would continue to face the highest tax rates and pay the most taxes — in both dollar and percentage terms — of any Americans. In a statement Thursday, the White House said that Trump’s “priorities have remained the same throughout this process: delivering tax cuts for middle-income families, a simplified tax code and lower rates for American businesses.” Trump has shown an interest in how the new tax plan would affect him personally. He told senators this week that he had spoken to his accountant about the emerging tax bills and that he would be “a big loser,” adding, “The deal is so bad for rich people, I had to throw in the estate tax just to give them something,” multiple people in the room told The Washington Post. Trump’s decision to consult with his accountant before legislation was made public could appear unseemly, said Don W. Fox, a former acting director of the Office of Government Ethics. “I would hope that any ethics counsel at the White House would say, ‘Mr. President, don’t do it,’ ” said Fox, who is advising congressional Democrats in legal action related to Trump’s business entanglements while in office. “Technically you can, but you shouldn’t. It just looks terrible.” Not every tax change would benefit Trump’s company. The House bill would eliminate a tax credit to preserve historic buildings, an incentive Trump’s company is seeking to cover $40 million of the cost of its conversion of a landmark Washington post office into a luxury hotel. The Senate bill would cut the credit in half. And many of the tax bill provisions benefiting commercial real estate companies such the Trump Organization are items that industry groups have spent millions of dollars and years of lobbying to support. Two groups that have spent a combined $6.2 million this year lobbying the federal government — the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts and the Real Estate Roundtable — both count tax reform among their top priorities. Both the House’s and the Senate’s tax plans would repeal the alternative minimum tax, a decades-old backstop designed to prevent wealthy taxpayers from claiming too much in deductions. Calculated separately on tax filings, the AMT has sometimes hit upper-middle-class households that request a slew of itemized deductions or special write-downs. But the system has also tripped up Trump. In 2005, the AMT accounted for nearly $32 million of Trump’s $37 million income tax bill, according to pages from his tax return revealed by journalist David Cay Johnston earlier this year. Without the AMT, Trump would have paid a tiny fraction of his income in taxes that year — less than 4 percent. The House bill would also repeal the estate tax, now levied on a few thousand of America’s wealthiest people. Under today’s law, anyone with homes, stocks or assets worth more than $5.5 million, or twice that for married couples, is subject to a 40 percent tax on assets above that threshold when the estate is transferred, leading Trump and Republicans to call it a “death tax.” Very few Americans cross that multimillion-dollar threshold, but Trump is one of them. If Trump’s estate is worth more than $10 billion, as he asserted without evidence during the presidential campaign, his family would save billions of dollars if the estate tax went away. The Senate bill, which the White House has suggested has a better chance of passing, keeps the estate tax but doubles the current threshold, to $11 million per person. The House bill would do the same for six years, then repeal it altogether. “If you look at where the money is on the individual side, the most expensive parts are the alternative minimum tax and the estate tax,” Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Tex.) said during a Thursday session on the House bill. Trump “gets a big bowl of ice cream, and the American people end up getting to lick the bowl.” The House bill would also cut rates on “pass-through” entities, which don’t pay corporate taxes but pass through the income to the owner’s income taxes, where rates top out at 39.6 percent. The bill would cap pass-through taxes for “passive” owners such as Trump, who don’t actively work for the company, at 25 percent — a 15 percentage point savings virtually overnight. Nearly all of the more than 500 companies listed in Trump’s past financial disclosures, including the Trump Organization, are structured as pass-through entities. And the savings for Trump could be huge: His 2005 tax return showed he had more than $109 million in income from businesses, partnerships and pass-through entities. A wide range of American companies are structured as pass-throughs, from small businesses to big law firms, hedge funds and real estate conglomerates. Most small businesses already pay a tax rate below 25 percent, depending on the owner’s individual tax rate, and a new revision to the House bill would allow them to pay a rate as low as 9 percent on some income. Much of the pass-through change’s benefit would go to wealthy earners. The top 1 percent earn about 69 percent of individual pass-through income, a 2015 study published by the nonpartisan National Bureau of Economic Research found. The Senate’s bill would allow pass-throughs to reduce their taxable income by about 17 percent but would then tax it at the individual rate. Service businesses would not qualify. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Thursday that the president’s taxes would increase under the House plan. An analysisby Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation, however, said taxpayers earning more than $1 million a year would see their tax rate shrink on average from 32.5 percent to 29.9 percent. It’s not clear precisely how Trump would fare. Under the House plan, the top 1 percent of households would reap 20 percent of the tax cut next year and 47 percent of the cut by 2027, Tax Policy Center estimates show. The richest 0.01 percent would save an average of $278,000 on their taxes by 2027, while the poorest would save $10. The Senate’s plan calls for a slight drop in the top tax rate, to 38.5 percent. The House’s plan would hold the top rate to its present 39.6 percent. Other provisions would directly benefit the real estate industry, where Trump first made his fortune. Both bills would allow businesses to deduct interest expenses for property development, construction, management and other real estate activities, while limiting that same benefit for other industries. Another House provision would repeal a “like-kind exchange” exemption that allows businesses to avoid taxes if they reinvest profits from one venture into another, but the bill would preserve the exchanges for commercial real estate. No other types of business would receive such a break. The Republican tax plan could also benefit Trump by protecting exemptions that help his business. The House bill would still allow golf course owners to claim deductions if they commit to never building on the land, a write-off that Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) included in his report this year on “outlandish loopholes.” Trump refused to divest his businesses when he joined the White House, opting instead to move his assets into a revocable trust from which he can draw money at any time, trust documents show. He left the management of the companies to his adult sons and a longtime employee. The tax cuts would offer benefits to companies beyond Trump’s. Both plans would drop the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 20 percent; the House’s cut would start next year, the Senate’s in 2019. The Senate plan would also allow companies to deduct state and local taxes on their federal returns, but prevent individuals and families from doing the same. The House would offer individuals a partial deduction. Long before he took the White House, Trump pushed for and defended lucrative tax exemptions offered to real estate developers such as himself. In 1991, he testified that a 1986 bill that streamlined tax brackets and squashed tax breaks had pushed the real estate business into an “absolute depression.” Trump urged lawmakers to pass higher personal tax rates for the wealthy and restore exemptions for the industry. The bill as passed by Congress and President Ronald Reagan, Trump told lawmakers, “was just an absolute catastrophe for the country, for the real estate industry.”
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, spoke during the mark-up of the Republican tax bill (H.R. 1) after Chairman Brady introduced a last-minute 22-page manager’s amendment that would change the bill yet again. You may view Rep. Doggett’s full speech here. Rep. Doggett said: “I don’t attend social events at the White House – I’m not interested in spending time with a President who attacks my constituents. But I have read that when it comes time to serve dessert, the President likes ice cream. But he always insists on him getting two scoops and the others at the table getting one. There is a lot of similarity in that dessert practice and what is being served up here today. “If you look at where the money is on the individual side, the most expensive parts are the alternative minimum tax and the estate tax. Those are Donald Trump’s personal dips, and those are big dips. “As a matter of fact, he gets a third scoop of ice cream – because the pass-through provisions are those he’s used in the past in his real-estate deals. He gets a big bowl of ice cream and the American people end up getting to lick the bowl and pay for the ice cream. $2.3 trillion dollars of additional debt will go right down on the American people with so little benefit for them. “The issues here are not whether we will take away from someone, but whether we will create more opportunity for all Americans to share in the American dream. We believe that the better way to grow our economy is to invest in Americans, to invest in American jobs, to give more educational opportunity, to honor the contributions of Dreamers and many of our immigrants make here in America. Those are sure-tested ways to grow America. “What we are presented with this trickle-down approach of giving most of the benefits to Donald Trump and his buddies has failed to grow American time after time. All it grows is speeches at Republican conventions, not the American economy. “As for the process, we tend to look at it from this side of the table – our request for hearings this past year have been rejected, President Trump and his Administration didn’t have the courage to testify before us and answer questions, the bill was dropped on us at the last minute, with a manager’s amendment at the end of Monday and a manager’s amendment today in which the Chairman won’t explain its provisions, what it costs, what it would do and we don’t have anyone here to explain it. But it’s not from looking at this side of the table that counts. It’s from looking at the other side of the table. The side of the table that so many people across America are looking at this and trying to figure out: what good does this do for me and my family. The answer to most of them is not anything, except giving you the opportunity to pay for more debt. This whole process is about a bill so bad, so wretched, that they fear the involvement not just of us as Members of this Committee on a fair and democratic basis, but they fear the examination of this bill by the American people. “That’s why they pass it today, in this contrived way, and they will bring it up on the House Floor next week. It is only by the American people getting involved, contacting their representatives, by demanding fairness in this bill, that we have the opportunity to reject it – as must be done.” Rep. Doggett previously spoke on the secrecy surrounding Chairman Brady’s new manager’s amendment introduced today. You may view that speech here. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett |Twitter:@RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett
11.09.2017	A Senate plan to overhaul taxes being released Thursday will delay for one year a cut in the top corporate tax rate from 35% to 20%, one of President Trump's top priorities, according to a Senate staff member who was familiar with the bill but not authorized to discuss it publicly. The House Ways and Means Committee was working Thursday to release its tax changes, which would immediately drop the corporate rate. But lawmakers are struggling to keep the total cost of tax cuts under a $1.5 trillion limit they set in a budget resolution adopted earlier this year. The House would bill collapse the number of brackets from seven to four, with individual income tax rates ranging from 12% to 39.6%. It would eliminate the personal exemptions, currently worth about $4,000 each for taxpayers, spouses and children. Instead, it would increase the standard deduction to $24,000 for married couples, increase the child tax credit from $1,000 to $1,600, and create a new credit for taxpayers, spouses and adult dependents of $300 each. The House bill provides for corporate rates to drop starting at the beginning of 2017, but the Senate would delay that until 2018, which would reduce the total cost of the bill by more than $100 billion. Ahead of the Senate bill's release, Sen. Rob Portman, R-Ohio, said on Bloomberg TV that the Senate made changes to what the House unveiled last week "as we have gotten input" to ensure that the middle class and small businesses got tax relief. The National Federation of Independent Business, a leading lobbying group for small businesses, had objected to the way the House bill had structured a new top 25% tax rate because it included provisions designed to prevent wealthy investors from having their incomes qualify as business income to avoid the top individual tax rate of 39.6%. The Finance Committee will begin debating the bill on Monday, and the House is supposed to take up its version on the floor next week as well. Democrats on the Ways and Means Committee, which met every day this week before releasing a revised bill on Thursday afternoon, sounded exasperated about the process. All week, they proposed changes to save tax provisions they said were popular but would be defeated, and were voted down even as some Republicans said during debate they agreed on the need for the provisions. "Every single Democratic amendment has been rejected with absolutely circus-like contortions by our Republican colleagues," said Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas. Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., said Republicans were working to speed action on the bill because they "know that the longer their bill is out there for the public to see, the less they’ll like it. Their only hopes of passing it are to rush it through." The speed of congressional action on the tax changes took a toll this week on some of the think tanks that focus on policy. On Thursday, the Tax Foundation, a group whose analysis has been cited by numerous Republican supporters of the bill, including House Speaker Paul Ryan, revised its analysis of economic growth that the House bill would generate downward, from 3.9% to 3.6% growth in the gross domestic product over the coming decade. That change came after the Tax Policy Center, a group whose analysis of winners and losers in the plan has been cited by numerous Democrats, issued a report on Monday and then withdrew it hours later it because of an error. It released a revised accounting on Wednesday.
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, questioned Chairman Brady during the Republican Tax Bill (H.R. 1) mark-up on the secrecy of a new manager’s amendment that would alter the bill. You may view Rep. Doggett’s full speech here. A portion of Rep. Doggett remarks are as follows: “Here we are on the fourth day of hearings, and every single Democratic amendment has been rejected, with absolutely amazing circus-level contortions by some of our Republican friends explaining why they are voting against something their constituents support. “The only thing that has changed the cost of this bill is an amendment the Republican Chairman has offered, and it added a big gift to multinational corporations. Now it exceeds the budget limit, and that’s the purported excuse for needing to have another manager’s amendment – to correct what we were not told the first one did. “If we withdrew every single one of our amendments that you will vote against anyway, are you ready to present us your manager’s amendment and tell us what secrets you’re hiding there? “Would we have an opportunity to see your secret proposal that you’ve worked out here in the backrooms with the Washington special interests that won out with your amendment #1, with the big giveaway to corporate America and multinational offshoring? “I assume you’re still not ready to present the manager’s amendment to correct the fiscal irresponsibility of the first giveaway to corporate America.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett |Twitter:@RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett
11.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, spoke during the Republican Tax Bill (H.R. 1) mark-up concerning how the Republican’s last-minute amendment is a $157 billion giveaway to multinational corporations. You may view Rep. Doggett’s full speech here. Rep. Doggett said: “On Monday, five and a half hours after this Committee began, the Chairman urged adoption of a 33-page amendment no Democrat had ever seen before [Amendment 1]. He would not tell us what was in this amendment, what it cost, nor would he permit us even five minutes to review this complex amendment outside of the committee. “Mr. Levin correctly called this a ‘mockery’ of the committee, that essentially placed us under ‘authoritarian’ rule. I have now reviewed that surprise amendment and the Joint Taxation Committee analysis – it is a $157 billion gift to multinational tax dodgers—particularly the Koch brothers and big Wall Street banks. $157 billion of the total $160 billion cost of this amendment presented in secret endeavors, is to tax attorneys who can find more ways in foreign islands to avoid paying taxes. The Republicans have eroded 95 percent of the ‘base erosion’ provisions of their original bill. “With the same $157 billion that is a corporate giveaway – the medical expense deduction for middle class families, the student loan interest deduction to help with loans that are burdening so many students, the out-of-pocket cost of teachers across America, the adoption tax credit, the American Opportunity Tax Credit to help veterans and others get back in our workforce – all of those could have been included in this bill and still would have left a billion or two left to spare. “And now Republicans apparently plan another amendment by the Chair—another amendment by ambush to significantly change this bill. This will only lead to more wrongs because the debate on the entire bill will close before we ever have the cost analysis or the full implications on what any of these last minute changes do.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett |Twitter:@RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett
11.08.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE November 8, 2017 Contact: Kate Stotesbery (202) 225-4865 Rep. Doggett Introduces Amendment to Restore Education Deductions WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, introduced an amendment to restore critical education deductions – including the Student Loan Interest deduction, Teacher Expenses deduction, and Tuition and Fees deduction – that the Republican tax bill (H.R. 1) would eliminate. Rep. Doggett’s amendment would also simplify and expand the American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC). A portion of Rep. Doggett’s remarks in Committee are below and a link to his full remarks follow: “With the economic evidence so clear, that the Republican tax bill is a job killer – that it will not grow our economy – we look to alternatives to accomplish growth in our economy and create jobs here. My alternative centers on investing in people. Instead of investing in people and education, this Republican bill takes away those education tax incentives and benefits. “If you look at the class of 2016, proud graduates throwing their caps in the air, two-thirds of them graduated not only with a diploma, but with a burden of debt. The average debt for those students in 2016 is $35,000 – those are the students who benefit from being able to deduct the interest on their loans that Republicans would deny them. “In addition to getting us back to even and restoring the $65-67 billion in cuts Republicans make, we adopt the same simplification program to the American Opportunity Tax Credit that I have worked on since 2009. Instead of taking away from that program, we use the savings from simplification to expand and enhance the program so that more students will have genuine opportunity, and that we will not see financial burden as a reason that every young person does not get the education for which they are willing to work.” H.R. 1 would repeal above-the-line deductions for interest payments on qualified education loans and tuition and related expenses. It would also eliminate the $250 above-the-line deduction for teachers’ out-of-pocket expenses, the employer-provided education assistance deduction, and the U.S. Savings Bonds interest deduction. It would further eliminate $17.3 billion in tax relief from the AOTC. You may view Rep. Doggett’s full speech on his amendment, here. The full text of the amendment can be found here. You may view Rep. Doggett’s full speech on his Stop Outsourcing of American Jobs amendment, introduced yesterday, here. You may view Rep. Doggett’s full speech on his Motion to Postpone amendment, introduced yesterday, here.
11.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, defended the Johnson Amendment, in support of Congressman John Lewis’s (D-GA) amendment, which would restore the 63-year standard that prohibits religious, non-profit, charitable, and related organizations from engaging in political activities. You may view Rep. Doggett’s full speech here. A portion of Rep. Doggett’s remarks in Committee are below: “We don’t need a First Church of Political Expediency, or a United Congregation of Available Political Endorsements, or a Megachurch of Mega PACs, and that’s where this bill would lead. “What President Johnson as a senator did, was to ensure that political activity cannot be done with tax-deductible funds. There is enough damage already done to our elections laws and campaign laws – let’s not involve our places of worship to become manipulated by wealthy donors and partisan interests to change them from their valued religious purpose.” More than 4,500 charities and over 100 religious leaders have voiced their support for maintaining the Johnson Amendment. You may also view Rep. Doggett’s full speech on his amendment to restore critical education deductions eliminated in H.R. 1, introduced this morning, here. You may view Rep. Doggett’s full speech on his Stop Outsourcing of American Jobs amendment, introduced yesterday, here. You may view Rep. Doggett’s full speech on his Motion to Postpone amendment, introduced Monday, here. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett |Twitter:@RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, in the Ways & Means committee mark-up of the Republican tax bill (H.R. 1) introduced his Stop Outsourcing of American Jobs Amendment, which would require that multinational corporations looking to invest offshore pay the same tax rate as small businesses or domestic companies investing here in America. Rep. Doggett spoke multiple times on his amendment, and a portion of his remarks are below, with two of his full speeches following: “President Trump has made stopping the outsourcing of American jobs a central element of his promise to the American people. Unfortunately, like his promise to have Mexico pay for his unnecessary wall, it’s very much a broken promise.” “It is flat wrong that the corner pharmacy should have to pay a rate that is substantially higher on its operations than Pfizer on its operations. My amendment ensures that both are treated the same way – that we tax profits earned abroad the same way that they are taxed here at home.” “All my amendment does is treat people who earn profits abroad the same way as those who earn profits at home. We’re not against profits; we’re not against maximizing profits; just pay your fair share. When you set up a system, as has been done in this bill, that creates one rate abroad that could be zero and at home it is 20 percent, guess where this money is going to flow? It will flow out of America, just like the jobs will flow out of America.” “If you believe in keeping our jobs at home, and believe we have lost too many already, don’t create a system that the only jobs that it will add are more tax lawyers and more CPAs to find ways to dodge taxes. They have dodged enough. They have dodged $100 billion a year.” You may view Rep. Doggett’s full introduction of his Stop Outsourcing of American Jobs amendment here and follow-up remarks here. The text of his amendment can be found here. You may view Rep. Doggett’s full speech on his Motion to Postpone amendment, introduced yesterday, here. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett |Twitter:@RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett
11.07.2017	Washington, DC – In the wake of the explosive Paradise Papers, Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) called on Republicans to take up legislation to crack down on the use of offshore tax havens by corporations and the ultra-wealthy. The Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act, introduced in April by Whitehouse and Doggett, would limit the ways corporations can game the U.S. tax system by moving jobs and assets abroad. “These documents pull back the curtain on a complex shell game, where corporations’ staggering profits disappear offshore and rematerialize when the time is right and the tax liability is the lowest,” said Whitehouse and Doggett. “Middle-class American families can’t set up their own Grand Cayman subsidiaries. Instead, they’re left paying a bigger share of taxes than they should. As the Paradise Papers show, we need to shut down tax havens and bring jobs and earnings back to our shores, not hand out more goodies to the super-rich, as the Republicans’ tax plan would do. Congress needs to take up the Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act now.” The Paradise Papers, released this week by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists and a network of media partners around the globe, show how American corporate goliaths like Apple and Nike avoid paying tens or even hundreds of billions of dollars in taxes using complicated schemes involving shifting profits through subsidiaries in low-tax foreign jurisdictions. According to the New York Times’s review of the Paradise Papers, Apple has stashed away at least $128 billion in profits offshore by exploiting tax law in the English Channel island of Jersey, which has no corporate income tax. And Apple is just one of numerous major companies found in the trove of Paradise Papers documents. “U.S. multinational firms are the global grandmasters of tax avoidance schemes,” former corporate tax adviser Edward D. Kleinbard told the Times. The Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act (S.851; H.R.1932) would close a number of tax loopholes, eliminate incentives for U.S. companies to move assets and operations offshore, and make it harder for companies to shirk their tax bills through cross-border mergers. It would also give the government new tools to crack down on the use of illegal tax shelters. Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act Currently, an American company can merge with a smaller foreign firm and incorporate in the foreign country for tax purposes, even if the bulk of its operations and employees remain in the U.S. The bill would discourage corporations from using these “inversions” by deeming the product of a merger between a U.S. company and a smaller foreign firm to be a U.S. taxpayer, no matter where in the world the new company is headquartered. Under current law, a company can choose to defer paying taxes on profits, while deducting the expenses incurred to produce the profits. The bill would require companies to delay taking deductions until they pay taxes on the related profits. Right now, companies are allowed to simply “check the box” on an IRS form and pretend that some of their foreign subsidiaries don’t exist for tax purposes. The bill would repeal this nonsensical rule. Some U.S. corporations are organized in tax havens, like the Cayman Islands, but really do business in the United States. For instance, one modest building in the Cayman Islands, Ugland House, is the legal home of over 18,000 companies, many of them really American companies in every other sense. This bill would discourage U.S. companies from incorporating abroad by deeming corporations worth $50 million or more that are managed and controlled in the U.S. to be U.S. taxpayers. Currently, banks must abide by anti-money-laundering due diligence standards before taking on new customers. The bill would extend this commonsense requirement to professionals who help set up shell corporations. The bill would make it easier for the IRS to obtain the names of the owners of suspicious foreign bank accounts. It would also increase penalties for corporate insiders who fail to disclose offshore dealings. By making it harder for corporations and the wealthy to use foreign tax shelters, the Joint Committee on Taxation has estimated provisions of this bill would cut the federal budget deficit by tens of billions of dollars each year. The bill has the support of the Financial Accountability and Corporate Transparency (FACT) Coalition, Americans for Tax Fairness, Fair Share, the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, the Main Street Alliance, Oxfam America, Public Citizen, U.S. PIRG, and American Sustainable Business Council. A section-by-section summary of the bill is available here. ###
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON — The House forged ahead with its tax code rewrite on Tuesday as Republican leaders fended off attacks from Democrats, who assailed the tax plan as a gift to the rich, and from business groups that said the legislation would disadvantage multinational companies. Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the majority leader, said Republicans would focus on clarifying what was in and not in the bill as the House tries to push it to a floor vote next week. “The challenge to the American public is what is the truth about this bill,” Mr. McCarthy said. “I think what’s most important is we should state the facts.” The House Ways and Means Committee opened a second day of debate on the bill, which will continue through this week. The committee chairman, Representative Kevin Brady of Texas, said on Tuesday morning that he expected the bill to pass out of committee on Thursday and to move quickly to the House floor. In an interview on Hugh Hewitt’s radio program, Mr. Brady said that the bill would not be subject to amendments on the House floor. But he also said that Republicans were still considering further changes to the bill, including possibly restoring tax breaks to encourage adoption and including a provision to repeal the Affordable Care Act’s requirement that most people have health insurance. “We’ll work to continue to improve it at every step,” Mr. Brady said, “including as we send it to the House floor.” That may be an uphill battle, as key groups begin coming out in opposition to parts of the bill, including a proposed excise tax of 20 percent on payments made by American companies to foreign affiliates. The provision is aimed at preventing American companies from shifting profits abroad through payments, such as royalties, made to subsidiaries or other foreign affiliates. American multinational corporations are especially concerned about the proposal, which would raise just over $150 billion over a decade. They say the tax will wind up harming American companies and their consumers. On Tuesday, the American Forest and Paper Association said it was “very troubled” by the provision, which it said “would lead to massive over-collection of tax in the United States.” The provision is also coming under fire from pharmaceutical companies and the small-government advocacy groups spearheaded by the billionaire Republican megadonor brothers Charles and David Koch, who are trying to generate opposition to the excise tax from other conservative groups. Tim Phillips, president of Americans for Prosperity, a conservative advocacy group funded by the Koch brothers and their network of donors, called the provision “misguided.” A prominent conservative group, the Club for Growth, criticized the House bill on Tuesday for what it called “four serious shortcomings,” including maintaining the existing top tax rate on millionaires and phasing out the estate tax instead of repealing it immediately. With the process underway in the House, business groups and other lobbyists began turning much of their attention to the Senate, which is expected to introduce its own version of the bill on Thursday. At a news conference with Republican senators and Trump administration officials, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas expressed concern that House Republican plans to repeal the state and local tax deduction for sales and income tax could mean higher tax bills for people in some states. He also lamented that the House plan does not repeal the Affordable Care Act’s mandate that most people have insurance. He echoed Mr. Trump’s call to eliminate the provision that is central to the health law. “I think we need to do even more to provide a tax cut, not just tax reforms, but a tax cut to every American,” Mr. Cruz said. “I think there is a path forward, that actually President Trump laid out last week, which is repealing the individual mandate — the I.R.S. tax — from Obamacare.” The future of the estate tax also remains unclear. While the House bill would phase out the tax that generally only hits the rich, some senators are skeptical that doing so is fiscally responsible. Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, said, “The president is interested in repealing the estate tax,” but suggested that he has bigger priorities in the tax bill. The Ways and Means Committee’s bill-drafting session started on Tuesday with Democrats proposing an amendment to curb the ability of Republicans to add to the deficit with tax cuts. “What we are incurring is immense debt at immense cost to the American people just to benefit a handful of people at the top and some multinational corporations that don’t believe in paying their taxes,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas. But Democratic amendments appeared to be going nowhere. Republicans on the committee did approve a package of changes to the bill on Monday, moving to tighten restrictions on so-called carried interest, alter rules aimed at preventing American companies from stashing profits offshore and further restrict a tax credit claimed primarily by low- and middle-income workers. The changes came as part of an amendment submitted by Mr. Brady. The panel, voting along party lines, approved the amendment on Monday night as the official process of debating the bill began. Among the most significant changes is a provision that would aim to close the so-called carried interest loophole, which Democrats and some Republicans call an unwarranted tax break for the wealthiest Americans. A substantial portion of the compensation of hedge fund and private equity executives is derived from the investment gains that their funds generate. Under the current tax code, that compensation is treated as capital gains, meaning it is taxed at a rate of 23.8 percent, well below the 39.6 percent income-tax rate that now applies to the top tier of individual earners. Mr. Brady’s amendment would require investors such as hedge fund managers and real estate developers to hold on to assets for three years to qualify for the lower capital gains rate on their income. The move seeks to weed out those who use the loophole to avoid paying ordinary income tax rates on their earnings. Mr. Brady, speaking on CNBC, said the effort was intended to “make sure it really is focused on those long-term, traditional real estate partnerships.” Carried interest has been the subject of intense political debate. President Trump said repeatedly on the campaign trail that hedge fund managers should not use the loophole to pay lower taxes than middle-class Americans working jobs with salaries. Some Democrats called the change toothless. “The tweak to carried interest seems like a feint so that they can pretend they are doing something to close loopholes for Wall Street,” said Seth Hanlon, a fellow at the liberal Center for American Progress and a former economic adviser to President Barack Obama. “The policy change does nothing to address the fundamental inequity of carried interest, which is that fund managers can get preferential capital gains rates for providing services.” He added, “Requiring them to hold onto the interest longer is beside the point.” Other changes to the bill included tweaks to the treatment of the earned-income tax credit, which is primarily used by lower- and middle-income workers. Eligibility for the earned-income credit, essentially a wage supplement for the working poor, depends on income and family size. About 26 million people received the credit last year, and the average credit was more than $2,400, according to the Internal Revenue Service. Mr. Brady said the change was intended to “protect the integrity” of the tax credit by reducing improper claims. The amendment would require employers to provide more payroll information about their employees and give the I.R.S. more power to verify the pay that workers report. The amendment would also exempt more universities from an excise tax on their investment income. The original plan included a 1.4-percent tax on the investment income of private colleges and universities with at least 500 students and assets of $100,000 or more per full-time student. The new plan would apply to schools with assets worth at least $250,000 per student, which would affect Ivy League universities and other wealthy private colleges. Mr. Brady’s amendment does not mention the repeal of the Affordable Care Act’s “individual mandate,” which requires most people to have health coverage. Republicans have been considering a repeal of the mandate to free up money for tax cuts and undo a provision of the health law that they have long opposed. On Monday night, Mr. Brady suggested that idea was still in play. “I’ve been asked by the president and members to consider that, and I have asked for an updated score,” he told reporters, referring to a budgetary assessment. “That’s as far as that has gone at this point.” The changes to the House tax legislation came as Senate Republicans were preparing to release their own bill. With a narrow majority in that chamber, Republicans may struggle to pass a bill without any support from Democrats. In an effort to galvanize some support across the aisle, the White House has dispatched Marc Short, director of legislative affairs, and Gary D. Cohn, director of the National Economic Council, to meet with Senate Democrats on Tuesday to discuss the tax plan.
11.07.2017	Top Democrats said Monday that the so-called “Paradise Papers,” a leaked cache of millions of documents exposing major world figures’ use of offshore tax havens, are damning enough to derail the GOP’s push for an overhaul of the U.S. tax code. Several top Trump administration figures, including Commerce Secretary Wilbur J. Ross Jr., Chief Economic Adviser Gary Cohn and Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, appear in the data. Mr. Ross in particular appears to have an ownership stake in a shipping company that does business with a Russian firm whose owners are connected to Russian President Vladimir Putin. The Paradise Papers are a massive cache of documents from Appleby, a law firm that advises on how to offshore. The documents were obtained by a German newspaper and shared with an international consortium of investigative reporters, which released reporting on them this week. Democrats said the revelations should sour the entire debate over the GOP’s plans to overhaul the existing tax code, saying the legislation doesn’t do enough to shut down offshoring. "The revelations in the Paradise Papers are proof positive that the Republican tax plan favors the wealthy and betrays the middle class in this country, who are the ones left carrying the financial burden of massive corporate tax avoidance," said Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer and Sen. Ron Wyden, the top Democrat on tax matters in the Senate. In the House, where the GOP tax bill hit the Ways and Means Committee on Monday, Democrats said the revelations pump the brakes on the push. "These new reports from yesterday raise a number of questions about Trump allies," said Rep. Lloyd Doggett, Texas Democrat. Their attempt to delay was defeated on a party-line 24-16 vote. Mentioned in the new documents are Mr. Cohn, who had holdings in Bermuda while an executive at Goldman Sachs, and Mr. Tillerson, who was part of a Bermuda-based joint venture while head of Exxon Mobil, according to the consortium’s reporting. In the case of Mr. Ross, he has maintained an ownership stake in Navigator, a shipping firm, which does tens of millions of dollars in business with Silbur, a Russian firm whose owners include Mr. Putin’s son-in-law and a close friend of the Russian president who is subject to U.S. sanctions. Silbur itself is not subject to sanctions. Anti-Trump activist groups said Mr. Ross’ holdings were still shady. Common Cause, which advocates for stricter campaign finance and conflict-of-interest rules, said the Commerce Department’s inspector general should probe the secretary’s dealings, saying he should have disclosed them. "These latest revelations are part of a disturbing pattern of Trump administration officials seeking to hide their links to Russian business interests and members of Vladimir Putin’s inner circle," said Karen Hobert Flynn, president of Common Cause.
11.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This evening, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, spoke out against a surprise move by Ways and Means Republicans, who dropped a far-reaching 33-page amendment to a 400-plus page bill that itself only was made public on Thursday. This is not worthy of this Committee’s important work, and has lobbyist fingerprints all over it: Rep. Doggett responded as captured in this video. You may view an earlier speech given by Rep. Doggett here. You may view Rep. Doggett’s full speech on his Motion to Postpone amendment, introduced earlier, here. You may view Rep. Doggett’s statement issued after the release of the “Paradise Papers” here. The House Republican tax bill was belatedly revealed on Thursday, November 2, and mark-up of the bill began today. There have been no public hearings on H.R. 1 specifically. On Sunday, November 5, the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) released the “Paradise Papers” and announced a global investigation of offshore tax avoidance activities by politicians, world leaders, and multinational corporations. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett |Twitter:@RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett
11.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, called the Republican tax bill (H.R. 1) a “job killer” and urged Americans to learn more and speak out against it. A portion of Rep. Doggett’s remarks in Committee are below and a link to his full remarks follow: “There is no wrongdoing in which Donald Trump can engage, no insult, no attack on our justice system or our law enforcement, no endangerment of our security, that will cause many of our Republican colleagues to say ‘enough’ or to speak out about that wrongdoing, because they are convinced that Donald Trump is the golden ticket to getting their Holy Grail. If the American people continue to study the impact of this bill, and speak out, then this great harm can be prevented. “The multinational corporations are not going to be filing their tax returns on a postcard. Under the international provisions of this bill, they have an incentive to build their factories abroad. We are going to see the export of even more American jobs and the outsourcing of those jobs to other countries. This bill basically is a job killer. Its underlying premise – that if you throw enough money to those at the top, it will trickle down and grow the economy – has been refuted by almost every economist that has looked at that, including Goldman Sachs. It is essential that we not outsource more American jobs, that we not burden this generation and future generations with more debt.” You may view Rep. Doggett’s full Committee speech here. You may view Rep. Doggett’s full speech on his Motion to Postpone amendment, introduced earlier, here. You may view Rep. Doggett’s statement issued after the release of the “Paradise Papers” here. The House Republican tax bill was belatedly revealed on Thursday, November 2, and mark-up of the bill began today. There have been no public hearings on H.R. 1 specifically. On Sunday, November 5, the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) released the “Paradise Papers” and announced a global investigation of offshore tax avoidance activities by politicians, world leaders, and multinational corporations. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett |Twitter:@RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett
11.06.2017	Will this be Lloyd Doggett’s moment? After years of relative obscurity, the Democratic congressman from Austin is about to have the spotlight shining on him — and the issues he cares about. With the signature tax reform bill of President Donald Trump and the GOP ready for a marathon session starting Monday in the House Ways and Means Committee, Doggett, a senior member of the panel, is ready for action. The veteran lawmaker, first elected to Congress in 1994, said in an interview that he was preparing a dozen amendments to shape the bill, which the GOP has dubbed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. “I’m concerned about the way this bill is going to explode debt and impair our economy to the tune of about $1.5 trillion,” he said. “This bill will incentivize the outsourcing of more American jobs. There is disparity in the bill. In the meetings with Trump and the Republicans with all the smiley faces, they said the benefits were going mostly for the middle class when, in fact, the benefits do not go mostly to the middle class. They mostly go to corporations.” And that is Doggett’s clarion, focusing on what he sees as some of the bill’s failings: the debt increase, the effective push offshore by not taxing foreign profits, and the hit on education deductions, which he says will cost taxpayers $65 billion between 2018 and 2027. “The tax bill will without question … thrust Congressman Doggett back onto the national stage,” Rice University political scientist Mark Jones said. “For at least the immediate future, Rep. Doggett will be living in the limelight. “As the ranking Democratic member of the Ways and Means Committee’s Tax Policy Subcommittee, Rep. Doggett will be on point for the Democratic Party as it attempts to either obtain significant modifications to or block the proposed GOP tax reform legislation.” A few weeks ago, Doggett went to the White House and met with Trump and other lawmakers from both parties to talk about the bill. But he said what was just released by Republicans late last week is not what he considers good tax policy. The massive bill is designed to cut tax rates across the board, increase the standard deduction and reduce the corporate rate to 20 percent from 35 percent. It also eliminates or reduces some household tax breaks for those who itemize, including limiting the mortgage deduction and capping the property tax deduction. The debate in committee will start at noon Monday and is expected to finish by Thursday when Congress will break for the Veterans Day holiday. One proposed elimination of a tax break affects Texans directly: the deductibility of state and local income tax, which includes an option that allows taxpayers to choose to deduct state and local sales taxes. Texas lawmakers fought for years to make that option permanent in the tax code since the Lone Star State is one of seven states with no state income tax. In a concession, GOP tax writers decided to limit the property tax deduction to $10,000 instead of eliminating it. Protecting those tax breaks might create alliance opportunities with Republicans in states such as New York, New Jersey and California with high state income taxes. But Doggett is nothing if not realistic about his chances. The Republicans on the panel, he said, have always had a pact not to vote for any Democratic amendments. The other Texan on the subcommittee, Kenny Marchant, R-Coppell, has praised the bill as being pro-business. “In keeping a promise to my constituents,” he said in a statement Thursday, “we are seizing this opportunity to create a more competitive tax code for local businesses in North Texas and a simpler, fairer tax code for the families and individuals I represent.” Still, the GOP’s desire to show bipartisanship might help Doggett. “They’re so eager to have a bipartisan gloss to what has been a partisan bill that some amendments may pass,” he said. Doggett sees the real goal as dissecting the bill and explaining it to the public even as the House, with a substantial GOP majority, probably will approve it. The legislative faceoff would come later in the Senate. “It’s a lot like what happened in health care,” he said of the Democratic playbook that ultimately kept the GOP from repealing the Affordable Care Act. U.S. Rep. Kevin Brady, R-The Woodlands, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said in announcing the bill Thursday with House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., “With this bill, we will grow our economy by delivering more jobs, fair taxes and bigger paychecks to Americans of all walks of life.” Describing the existing tax code as broken, Brady said taxpayers, especially those with low and middle incomes, would keep more of their money under the bill. “For a middle-income family of four making $59,000 year, as the speaker said, this bill delivers a tax cut of nearly $1,200.” With lower rates and a higher standard deduction, Brady said, most Americans will receive the benefits of a streamlined tax system. The tax writers eliminated or reduced some advantages to taxpayers who itemize, while tilting the benefit more to taxpayers who use the standard deduction — the majority of filers. According to the Tax Foundation, a nonpartisan think tank, only 30 percent of filers itemize. Brady brought Trump a postcard-size tax return that he held up at a White House meeting to show how simple the bill would make returns for taxpayers. As for Democratic criticism, Brady told Neil Cavuto of Fox News on Thursday, “I believe that we can gain Democrat support. We will work to do that. But I know this. Man, I would hate to be standing there, saying, ‘What we have for a tax code is just fine,’ because it’s not.” Referring to his own committee, he said, “Our Democrats have good ideas in tax reform. They stayed at the table to talk to us. So, I think it’s early for them. We’re going to keep the door open and keep discussing with them.” “This is a great opportunity for Doggett,” said Norm Ornstein, resident scholar at the conservative American Enterprise Institute. “The problem is that being a House Democrat, the ability to affect political reality is almost nil.” But there’s an opening: “The tax reform issue is one the Republicans know they can get and desperately need to put some legislative wins on the board,” said Brandon Rottinghaus, professor of political science at the University of Houston. “Republicans need a deal, and Democrats can use that as leverage to work a better deal.” During his 22 years in Congress, Doggett has served with a Democratic Congress and a Democratic president for only two years, from 2008 to 2010. Matt Angle, director of the Lone Star Project, a Democratic political action committee, said Doggett’s knowledge of the tax code and legislative skills will make a difference and ultimately help shape the messaging for the midterm elections. “He’s not a warm and fuzzy guy, but he’s an outstanding member of Congress,” Angle said. “If you’re in a fight, you want somebody who’s smart and fearless. You want Doggett on your side.”
11.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, introduced a Motion to Postpone debate of the House Republicans’ tax bill (H.R. 1) for several reasons, including the release yesterday of the “Paradise Papers.” A portion of Rep. Doggett’s remarks in Committee are below and a link to his full remarks follow: “This Motion simply requests that we reconvene this markup for next week. Our objective is insight, not delay. Incredibly, for this legislation of such magnitude, after so many years, this plan has never had a single public hearing, nor has any member of the Trump Administration official have the courage to come before this Committee and answer questions about this bill. No expert witness has been given the opportunity to explain this bill’s deficiencies, nor has there been an opportunity for thorough independent evaluation of the proposal in this this rush to injustice. “Despite our efforts, we still lack the tax returns of President Trump and his 500 plus entities that might show how he and his family will personally benefit. “And thanks to a free press and investigative journalism, we have the release of the first information on the ‘Paradise Papers’ concerning offshore tax avoidance in Bermuda and other island tax havens. These explosive revelations once again sound the alarm about the inequities of our tax system and disturbing amounts of tax avoidance. When the privileged avoid their taxes, individuals, small businesses, and domestic businesses are forced to pick up the tab for vital government services. “Like the rushed-through Trump immigration policy and the health care repeal disaster, we need to learn from experience, we need some vetting – in the President’s words, we need ‘extreme vetting.’ If you don’t have anything to hide, a week and one public hearing won’t impair your efforts.” The House Republican tax bill was belatedly revealed on Thursday, November 2, and mark-up of the bill begins today. There have been no public hearings on H.R. 1 specifically. On Sunday, November 5, the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) released the “Paradise Papers” and announced a global investigation of offshore tax avoidance activities by politicians, world leaders, and multinational corporations. You may view Rep. Doggett’s full speech on his Motion to Postpone here. You may view Rep. Doggett’s statement issued after the release of the “Paradise Papers” here. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett |Twitter:@RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett
11.05.2017	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Ways & Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, reacted to the important disclosures by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) in releasing the “Paradise Papers” and announcing a global investigation of offshore tax avoidance activities by politicians, world leaders, and multinational corporations. Rep. Doggett said: “These explosive revelations once again sound the alarm about the inequities of our tax system and the disturbing amount of tax avoidance. When the privileged avoid their taxes, individuals and small businesses are forced to pick up the tab for vital government services. “With House Republicans in charge, powerful tax dodgers know they are in paradise. Since the Panama Papers were released last year, Republicans have refused to heed my call for Committee action, including thorough investigatory hearings. These papers have revealed corruption, money laundering, and tax fraud. These reports also raise questions about a number of Trump allies, his billionaire buddies, and multinational corporations worldwide that have so much to gain from this Republican tax bill. Consideration of the Republican tax plan to reward tax dodgers and incentivize outsourcing of more American jobs abroad should be postponed until a thorough examination of these documents has occurred.” The ICIJ’s report can be found here. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett |Twitter:@RepLloydDoggett | Instagram:@RepLloydDoggett
11.03.2017	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Ways & Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, spoke on the House Floor in support of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), which Republicans let expire at the end of September. Rep. Doggett said: “The Children’s Health Insurance Program began as a truly bipartisan initiative, but now it is overwhelmed by Republican indifference, endangering children. So low is it on their priority list that they let the law expire… 400,000 Texas children are at risk if this program is not be continued. In the face of this crisis, their response is – we won’t put another new dollar in this program unless we take it from Medicare beneficiaries.” You can watch Rep. Doggett’s full remarks here. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett |Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
11.03.2017	Dems call it corporate giveaway By Kevin Diaz WASHINGTON BUREAU Tom Brenner / New York Times President Donald Trump holds examples of “postcard” tax returns alongside Rep. Kevin Brady, R-The Woodlands. Win McNamee / Getty Images Sennate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer listens as House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi reacts to the tax proposal. WASHINGTON — Republican Kevin Brady of The Woodlands, the point man for a sweeping GOP overhaul of the U.S. tax code, unveiled long-awaited tax cut legislation Thursday aimed at spurring jobs, the economy and his party’s prospects in the 2018 elections. The “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” — cast as a once-in-a-generation rewrite of the nation’s tax laws — was met with furious criticism from Democrats, who denounced it as a giveaway to corporations and the wealthy at a time of increasing economic disparity and a growing national debt. The coming congressional battle could crystallize partisan differences on the economy leading up to the midterm elections, even if much of the negotiation will be limited to Republicans who make up the majorities in both the House and the Senate. The rollout — delayed a day to accommodate last-minute differences among Republican lawmakers — mirrored a blueprint that Brady, as chairman of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, has been preparing for more than a year. It calls for lower individual and corporate tax rates and the elimination of most itemized deductions, including, most controversially, deductions for state and local income and sales taxes. Deductions for local property taxes, a major tax saving for many Texans, would be capped at $10,000, a partial concession to Republican lawmakers from high-tax states who balked at an earlier proposal to eliminate the property tax deduction altogether. In another concession, Brady’s plan would preserve the home mortgage interest deduction for existing loans, a popular write-off backed strenuously by Realtors and home builders. But the deduction would be capped for newly purchased homes up to $500,000. Brady, an 11-term congressman from The Woodlands, also backed away from earlier proposals to dial back or change how Americans save for retirement in 401(k)s and Individual Retirement Accounts. While Republicans sought to keep their focus on the modest savings to low- and middle-class Americans, Democrats aimed much of their fire at the expected outsized savings to high-income Americans and big business, which would see corporate tax rates drop from 35 percent to 20 percent. Significantly, in an effort to live up to President Donald Trump’s promise of stemming the flow of U.S. businesses and jobs overseas, the GOP plan would make it easier to repatriate foreign earnings and eliminate tax incentives for offshore investments. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett of Austin, the ranking Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee, invoked Trump to argue that the GOP tax plan would do little to help the economy grow or help the middle class. “Ultimately, what the American people really get from this tax plan is a huge bill for the debt incurred to pay for tax breaks that line the pockets of Donald Trump personally along with his billionaire buddies,” Doggett said. “Like a Trump University degree, it is phony. The smiles and middle-class hype cover up a giant giveaway to special interests. Since most of the tax benefits go to giant corporations, this bill is a testament to the power of limousine lobbyists.” Democrats also were critical of provisions that would repeal the estate tax and the alternative minimum tax, changes that would help taxpayers on the upper-end of the income scale. Republican tax writers, in an effort to blunt Democratic criticism, decided in the end to keep the current 39.6 percent tax rate for high-income Americans. But for most taxpayers, the current seven tax brackets would be compressed to three: 12 percent, 25 percent and 35 percent. In exchange for a host of lost write-offs and deductions for those who itemize their tax returns, the plan would nearly double the standard deduction to $12,000 for individuals and $24,000 for married couples. Because of the simplified tax tables, Brady said, most Americans could file their returns on a document the size of a postcard. Republicans said that for a typical family of four with a household income of $59,000, their plan would lessen the tax burden by nearly $1,200 a year. For a “main street” business earning $62,000, the savings would be more than $3,000. “With this bill, there’s real relief for American families,” Brady said. Challenged in the public rollout to spell out the differences between his plan and the tax cuts of former President George W. Bush, which failed to live up to growth projections, Brady cited his plan’s soup-to-nuts redesign of the nation’s entire tax structure. “We are not just putting higher octane fuel in an old clunker of a tax car,” said Brady, accompanied by House Speaker Paul Ryan and other Republican leaders. “We propose to drive a new tax car that can compete against any country in the world.” Trump issued a statement applauding the bill, but stopped short of supporting it in detail: “We are just getting started, and there is much work left to do,” he said. “The special interests will distort the facts, the lobbyists will try to save their special deals, and some in the media will unfairly report on our efforts.” Republicans are hoping to enact a tax cut plan by the end of the year. In fact, Trump later said at the White House that he expects it to be a “big, beautiful Christmas present” for taxpayers. But that’s an ambitious timetable, given the complexity of a thousand-page-plus bill whose details have been largely under wraps until now. Some business and conservative groups remained dissatisfied with the 11th-hour changes, while others cast as concessions to special interest groups protecting valued tax loopholes. “Many of the concessions made in the proposal are the direct result of self-serving special interests groups like the National Association of Realtors and a small group of lawmakers placing parochial interests above the nation’s interests,” said Michael Needham, chief executive officer of the conservative group Heritage Action The potential for Republican defections could prove problematic for party unity, which Brady will need in the House and the Senate, where the 52-member GOP majority plans to use special budget procedures to get around a Democratic filibuster. But those procedures also require that the tax plan not add significantly to federal deficits over a 10-year budget window, necessitating a number of trade-offs such as curbing the mortgage interest and property tax deductions and eliminating the state and local income tax deduction. Those tradeoffs became a major sticking point in recent days as details leaked out and alarmed industry groups in the housing market. Among those speaking out was Granger MacDonald, chairman of the National Association of Home Builders and a home builder and developer from Kerrville. “The House Republican tax reform plan abandons middle-class taxpayers in favor of high-income Americans and wealthy corporations,” he said in a statement. “The bill eviscerates existing housing tax benefits by drastically reducing the number of home owners who can take advantage of mortgage interest and property tax incentives.” But other business groups in Texas weighed in to support the GOP plan. In a letter Thursday to the state’s congressional delegation, nearly 40 business associations and business owners called on immediate action on tax reform. “Passing tax reform is imperative given the current state of the tax code, the heavy burden of the corporate tax rate, and the impact both have on the economy and job creation,” they wrote.
11.02.2017	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Ways & Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, made this statement following the belated release of the Republican tax scheme. Rep. Doggett said: “Ultimately, what the American people really get from this tax plan is a huge bill for the debt incurred to pay for tax breaks that line the pockets of Donald Trump personally along with his billionaire buddies. Like a Trump University degree, it is phony. The smiles and middle-class hype cover up a giant giveaway to special interests. Since most of the tax benefits go to giant corporations, this bill is a testament to the power of limousine lobbyists. It appears to create a new loophole incentivizing the outsourcing of even more American jobs abroad. It does not grow our economy, nor help working families. Our country’s future depends on how quickly the truth can catch up with the lie.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett |Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
11.01.2017	Community members who help people sign up for health insurance are prepared to field complicated questions about coverage tiers, doctor networks and out-of-pocket expenses as the Affordable Care Act’s fifth annual open enrollment season kicks off Wednesday. But a more basic line of inquiry has been dominating many of their early interactions with the public: Does the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, still exist? Is subsidized health insurance still available despite months of acrimony in Washington? The answer to both those questions is yes — and in Austin and some surrounding areas there actually are more subsidy-eligible health plans to choose from on the federal marketplace for 2018 than there were for 2017. Enrollment for 2018 insurance under the Affordable Care Act begins Wednesday and will last six weeks through Dec. 15. Misconceptions about the law’s fate appear to be widespread, however, leading to fears that many people won’t sign up and instead will forgo their chance to gain access to affordable medical care for 2018. “People are confused, and they’re telling us when we’re out at events that they can’t sign up” because the law is no longer in effect, said Jill Ramirez, chief executive of the Latino Healthcare Forum. “Right now, there is so much confusion about what is going on. We have been out there clarifying what the ACA is.” The United Way for Greater Austin, with support from Central Health, is providing a call center for information and assistance during the enrollment period. To access the service, local residents should dial 211 on their phones and then press option one. While the basics of the Affordable Care Act haven’t changed — including the individual mandate that everyone have health insurance or pay a fine — consumers will have significantly less time to sign up this year than in previous years, when the enrollment period lasted three months instead of 45 days. They’ll also have less information about enrollment because the budget for promotional advertising from the federal government has been cut, and they’ll have less access to federally funded specialists, known as “navigators,” if they need one-on-one help filling out their insurance forms — although local health advocates are trying to bridge that gap with an increase in volunteers. “We have to serve twice the number of people in half the time,” said Elizabeth Colvin, director of the Insure Central Texas program at Foundation Communities. “But the community response has been tremendous. When we made our call for volunteers, people responded.” Colvin said her group has trained nearly 130 people as volunteer “certified application counselors” this year, compared with 61 last year. Meanwhile, residents of Travis, Williamson and Hays counties have more choices on the federal marketplace for 2018 coverage, because Oscar Health has joined existing insurers Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Texas, Sendero Health Plans and Ambetter Health in offering subsidy-eligible plans. Combined, the companies are offering 33 marketplace plans in the region, compared with a total of 30 for 2017. Republicans opposed to the Affordable Care Act — including President Donald Trump, who has called it “a disaster” and campaigned on doing away with it — have thus far been unsuccessful in their efforts to repeal the law. But the Trump administration nonetheless has taken actions that the law’s proponents say could reduce its effectiveness by lowering enrollment. Those include shortening the sign-up period, cutting money for an annual federal promotional campaign by 90 percent — to $10 million — and reducing funding for health care navigators, or organizations that educate people about their choices and help them sign up. In Texas, funding for navigators has been cut by 34 percent this year — to $6.1 million from $9.2 million last year — according to the Kaiser Family Foundation. Trump also recently announced that he would eliminate payments designed to reimburse insurance companies for reducing out-of-pocket expenses for low-income people. That change has resulted in big spikes in premiums for the most popular tier of plans — although consumers who qualify for subsidies will be protected from the increases. In Travis County, the average premium for “silver” plans, which are the most popular tier, is climbing 32 percent for 2018, according to an analysis by the Center for Public Policy Priorities, while average premiums in the bronze and gold tiers are climbing by about 6 percent. Only consumers who pay the full cost of their health insurance will feel the impact of the higher premiums. But the actions by the Trump administration have taken a toll on public perceptions as the enrollment period gets underway, proponents of the law say. “There is so much noise out there that some people maybe have even concluded that Obamacare has been repealed,” said U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, who has attended a number of local events recently to urge people to research their options and sign up. “The message being conveyed regularly (by the Trump administration) is that this will not work for you and your family.” Amid the current rhetoric surrounding the law, local health care advocates say enrollment might not equal last year’s numbers. A total of 68,199 Travis County residents signed up for 2017 coverage through the federal marketplace, according to the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, while 23,893 people signed up in Williamson County and 9,338 people signed up in Hays County. “There is a risk” that fewer people will sign up for 2018 coverage, Colvin said. “But it’s our job and our commitment to not let that happen. We have our biggest volunteer class we’ve had ever, and we’re excited about the open enrollment period.” Ramirez wasn’t as positive. “Unfortunately, I think that there is so much confusion that people are not going to be able to make up their minds and may not have enough time to really understand what is happening,” she said. “I’m trying to be optimistic, but I really don’t think it’s going to be OK from what we are hearing out in the community.”
10.31.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, issued the following statement after multiple news reports that Republican leadership would delay the release of their tax scam legislation: “Halloween may be wrapping up, but Republican tricks continue with the delay of their tax scam. With a bill so bad, it’s understandable that the GOP cannot agree amongst themselves on its final form. Clearly, you cannot sugar-coat this bill; there is nothing sweet about this thousand plus-page monstrosity. By delaying the bill, while not postponing the Monday mark-up, Republicans are once again sabotaging the opportunity for both thorough, independent analysis and fair debate based upon reasoned alternatives.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett |Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
10.31.2017	In celebration of Halloween, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) wanted to share the following candygram message with you in anticipation of the Republicans’ tax bill introduction. This graphic is also posted on Rep. Doggett’s Twitter here and on Facebook here.
10.30.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), senior member on the House Ways and Means Committee, joined Insure Central Texas to promote the November 1 start date of Open Enrollment for the individual insurance Marketplace. “Nothing about what is happening in Washington, none of the tweets, nor other political static changes your right to choose the health insurance that is best for you and your family,” said Rep. Doggett. “With so much obstruction underway to prevent you from knowing about your rights, and so many trying to take something away from you, don’t take it away from yourself by failing to sign up. And amidst the many problems, there is some very good news: Like last year, 8 out of 10 Marketplace consumers will probably qualify for substantial tax credits.” “There is a lot of confusion about the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare, but there are three facts that Texans need to know,” said Elizabeth Colvin, Director of Insure Central Texas. “First, ACA is still the law. Second, financial help is still available. And third, plans and prices have changed, so people need to review their options carefully. Foundation Communities has done all the research to help folks in Central Texas shop for coverage and get the best deal.” Open Enrollment lasts from November 1 until December 15, 2017. Together with the expansion of Medicaid, the Affordable Care Act Marketplaces have cut the uninsured rate by almost half nationwide, although Texas still has the highest percentage of uninsured residents in the Nation. Insure Central Texas is a free program of local nonprofit Foundation Communities that helps people enroll in affordable Marketplace health coverage. Since 2014, Insure Central Texas has helped more than 22,800 people get covered under the Affordable Care Act. You can find a video recording of the event here. ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett |Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
10.30.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, issued the following statement after indictments were issued by Department of Justice Special Counsel Robert Mueller, in his investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 elections. Rep. Doggett said: “Sweeping charges against President Trump’s former campaign chair underscore the importance of not sweeping any of this investigation under the rug. Instead of their standard approach of silence and distraction, Republicans should be sending a strong, public message to President Trump—‘any interference with this investigation is at your peril.’ Unquestionably, the Russians attacked our democracy in a successful effort to elect their preferred candidate. While we lack the full story of any Trump collusion, one advisor has now plead guilty to lying about his Russian contact, and we already know that the Trump family eagerly attempted to collude while seeking a major private deal in Moscow. While these prosecutions are important, confidence in our democracy continues to demand the nonpartisan, fully independent investigation of Russian interference, which I have urged for almost a year.” ### Follow Lloyd Doggett Facebook: www.Facebook.com/LloydDoggett |Twitter: @RepLloydDoggett | Instagram: @RepLloydDoggett
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON - U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett is hoping to seize on President Donald Trump’s continued criticism of prescription drug prices with legislation enabling the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to negotiate with pharmaceutical companies to bring down costs for seniors. “We hear so many frequent announcements about medical breakthrough, but we haven’t had any breakthroughs on affordability to enable people to get those medical discoveries,” Doggett said, speaking on the Senate lawn.Doggett, D-San Antonio, Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont and other Democrats on Wednesday revived a push to overturn a ban that drug-makers and their allies in Congress have fought for more than a decade to keep in place. Doggett’s office noted problems of people in San Antonio who have come to him for help. One woman, a diabetes sufferer identified only as Denise, told Doggett she is unable to keep her blood sugar levels in check because she can’t afford insulin. Another woman named Nancy told the congressman that she is unable to afford a $400-a-month prescription on top of $200 she pays in drug costs for several ailments. Doggett, who leads a House Democratic task force focused on reducing drug prices, spoke in the news conference about exorbitant costs borne by people suffering from cancer and other serious ailments. “They are charging prices that are set for whatever a sick and dying person will pay for a little less pain and a little more time with their family,” he said. Medicare changes in 2003 that secured the Part D drug benefit for seniors included a ban on negotiating with drug manufacturers, a provision described at the time as a bargaining chip to win support from some Republicans opponents. Fierce opposition in Congress orchestrated by drug manufacturers has bottled up proposed changes to the ban. In the 2016 election cycle alone, political contributions from the pharmaceutical and health products industries approached $21 million, 59 percent to Republicans, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.Such negotiations, permitted for the Veterans Administration, presumably would enable Medicare to leverage its purchasing power to pay less for drugs. Trump, before taking office, accused drug companies of “getting away with murder,” an assertion he repeated as recently as last week. But skeptics point out that the president has yet to follow through, and he has sparked criticism for appointing industry officials to high-level positions, among them Joseph Grogan, a former Gilead Sciences lobbyist who is heading the administration’s effort related to drug-pricing reforms. Consumer groups continue to challenge Gilead’s $1,000-a-pill hepatitis C treatment, which generated $4 billion for the company last year. Nonetheless, Democrats said they hope to enlist Trump in the new effort. “The campaign is over, he’s president now. We need him to join us in taking on the pharmaceutical industry,” Sanders said. Doggett on Wednesday also introduced two other prescription-related bills. One would require transparency by pharmaceutical companies as far as what costs, including marketing, are factored into drug pricing. Another Doggett proposal aims to preventing brand-name drug manufacturers from discouraging competition by paying companies that produce generics to delay production of less expensive drugs.
10.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, twice spoke in opposition to the Republican budget, which would fast track tax legislation. Rep. Doggett said: “This bill is about one thing only. It is about lavishing tax breaks on Donald Trump personally, on his family, and all of his billionaire buddies. It is about lavishing tax breaks and incentives on the very same giant multinationals that have shipped away so many American jobs, that have refused to pay their fair share for our national security by hiding their profits in offshore island tax havens. “With Halloween coming, they can try to trick American middle class families into believing that a little of those tax benefits will trickle down to them. Because if they can do that, if they can pass this bill, they will treat themselves – the billionaires and the job exporters – to tax breaks of almost astronomical proportions. “The Republicans want the public to know as little about the details of their sham as possible. And that’s why they’ll have it introduced next week, passed in committee the following week, forced onto this floor and into the Senate. The American people have to understand what is in it, and speak up, and say no.” You can view Congressman Doggett’s first set of floor remarks here, in which he condemns the Republicans’ budget as giving tax breaks to the wealthiest few and multinational corporations: https://youtu.be/6XkeZZ2Ychw You can view Congressman Doggett’s second set of floor remarks here, in which he calls out Republicans’ false claims of bipartisanship: https://youtu.be/y_QTv1dFBHY
10.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, joined Senator Bernie Sanders (D-VT), Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT), and David Mitchell, cancer patient and founder of Patients for Affordable Drugs, to shine a light on the skyrocketing cost of drugs. Together, they introduced legislation that would direct the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services to negotiate with drug manufacturers for lower prices on covered Medicare Part D drugs. In order to address multiple facets of the drug pricing system, Rep. Doggett also introduced two additional bills to fight anti-competitive pay-for-delay deals and promote transparency throughout the drug development and pricing process. Rep. Doggett said: “Despite groundbreaking medical discoveries, we see no breakthrough in affordability for consumers. Drug pricing in America is a tangled mess, a knot that will take more than one cut to pull apart. Harnessing the purchasing power of Medicare and negotiating better deals for drugs through a process similar to that already available for our veterans is a significant first cut at the knot, but today I am also filing two additional bills to address price gouging, which is threatening public budgets as well as the family budgets of those who are ill. Sick patients are sick and tired of seeing Congress do nothing about a problem that affects so many.” Congressman Doggett’s bill, the Competitive Deals Resulting in Unleashed Generics and Savings (Competitive DRUGS) Act, fights prescription price gouging by cracking down on “pay-for-delay” deals, in which brand-name pharmaceutical companies pay generic drug makers not to compete by delaying production of less expensive cheaper generic drugs. According to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), these anti-competitive deals cost consumers and taxpayers $3.5 billion in higher drug costs every year. The Transparent Drug Pricing Act, also being introduced today by Rep. Doggett, requires drug manufacturers to disclose information that influences drug prices, such as research and development costs, manufacturing and marketing costs, acquisitions, federal investments, and revenues and sales, to the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). ###
10.24.2017	The Children’s Health Insurance Program began two decades ago as a bipartisan initiative, but it has now expired due to Republican indifference. The certainty of health insurance for an estimated 26,800 Bexar County children and 9 million across America could permanently disappear, along with services for many disadvantaged mothers. When children’s health suffers, so does their ability to learn, which only continues the cycle of inequality. Congress must not linger any longer while parents worry about their child’s access to a family physician. The Arriola family is one of many that depend on CHIP. Laura had to leave her full-time job after a lupus diagnosis. Not too long afterward, the family lost health coverage when her husband lost his job. While working to overcome these setbacks, the family relies upon CHIP to insure their three children, providing them with care and peace of mind. On Thursday, I heard similar stories from physicians and child health advocates at the Children’s Hospital, where we focused attention on the need for immediate action to restore CHIP. Dr. Mark Gilger, the Children’s Hospital Pediatrician-in-Chief, began our event by explaining how CHIP is absolutely essential to the CHRISTUS Health model of providing preventative services to all children and to moms-to-be. Dr. Dianna Burns spoke eloquently about a 16-year-old with special needs on CHIP, whose father is a disabled veteran and whose mother is a home health care provider. This family sometimes struggles to even afford the $5 copay for covered services. Fred Hines, CEO of the Clarity Child Guidance Center, explained how CHIP allows children access to timely treatment for mental illness, including the trauma caused by disasters like Hurricane Harvey. Dr. Rudy Morales Urby shared the story of Juan and Maria, whose parents make a bit too much to qualify for Medicaid but not enough to afford private coverage. Both of these children with chronic illnesses were finding themselves in the emergency room about once a month, before getting covered through CHIP. Now, when they need care, the children can see a family physician, instead of the inside of an ambulance. Further delay is unconscionable. Emergency funds have already been rushed to three states, and the head of Texas CHIP expects to run out of money in about three months or less. Texas CHIP would likely be bankrupt already had the state not created barriers to insuring more children legally eligible for coverage. Texas ranks near the bottom on covering our kids. Of almost 700,000 uninsured Texan children in 2015, more than 300,000 were eligible for Medicaid or CHIP. Struggling parents cannot access help that they do not know exists. Texas has done about as little as possible to encourage CHIP enrollment, and it erects procedural barriers to enrollment for those who do manage to discover it. We must both protect CHIP and make it more accessible. After postponing consideration of any legislation until authorization expired on September 30, congressional Republicans are attempting to pay for CHIP renewal by hiking Medicare premiums and by raiding the Affordable Care Act. Medicare premiums should be used solely to strengthen Medicare, not be diverted to another purpose, however worthy. CHIP began as a bipartisan priority, and we need to find that spirit of cooperation again. Every day that passes without legislative action on CHIP puts more children at risk. We should not permit millions of children to be kicked off coverage specially designed for their needs. As President Trump wreaks chaos in the broader insurance marketplace, it is increasingly critical to maintain stable coverage for children. I hope others will join in being a voice for the littlest voices. Democratic U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett represents the 35th Congressional District, which includes an area ranging from San Antonio north to Austin.
10.23.2017	Claiming the Federal Aviation Administration has “failed to act,” three Texas lawmakers announced Monday they’re filing bipartisan legislation to require medical exams for commercial balloon pilots after the deadly crash near Lockhart last year that killed 16 people. The move by U.S. Reps. Lloyd Doggett, Blake Farenthold and Will Hurd comes after the National Transportation Safety Board blamed the July 30, 2016, crash on pilot Alfred “Skip” Nichols for his “poor” decisions, his medical ailments and a cocktail of prescription drugs in his system that included Valium, Prozac and the painkiller oxycodone. The NTSB, which spent more than a year investigating the crash, also blamed the Federal Aviation Administration for exempting balloon pilots from medical screenings, which are required for pilots of other types of aircraft. “Because the FAA has failed to act, I am taking action to ensure no more families risk injury or death from unsafe hot-air balloon pilots,” said Doggett, D-San Antonio. “The FAA should not delegate its responsibility for public safety to a private lobbying group upon which it has thus far relied. Delay risks further disasters. No more balloon tragedies should be required to justify the reasonable safety measures we need.” “While nothing will bring these innocent folks back, the tragedy shined a light on the industry, and gave us an opportunity to improve the safety of future passengers,” said Hurd, R-San Antonio. The new bill is the latest of three pieces of legislation that attempt to mandate medical exams for pilots. Texas Sen. Ted Cruz filed a similar bill that has been postponed until next year, and Doggett had filed a past amendment that sought the same goal. News of the latest bill was heartily welcomed by Patricia Morgan, whose daughter and granddaughter from San Antonio, Lorilee and Paige Brabson, died in the crash. “I’m ecstatic that this is being done,” Morgan wrote in an email to the San Antonio Express-News. A critic of the FAA and its oversight of balloon pilots, Morgan said it will probably take an act of Congress to force the FAA to change its ways. “This legislation will save lives and prevent tragedies like last summer’s hot air balloon crash near Lockhart,” said Farenthold, R-Corpus Christi. “The FAA should require a medical certificate for commercial balloon pilots to keep people in the air and on the ground safe.” In the past, FAA officials said stricter oversight of the balloon industry is unnecessary because there are far fewer balloon flights compared to other types of aircraft. The agency supports a voluntary program recently launched by the Balloon Federation of America that would require medical exams, drug tests and safety seminars for pilots. NTSB board chairman Robert Sumwalt and other critics of the FAA say there’s no guarantee that any pilots will spend the time and money to participate in the balloon federation’s program. Sumwalt harshly criticized the FAA for “shirking its responsibility” to protect balloon passengers. “I believe that this voluntary compliance standard, even though it might be good, wouldn’t have done a thing to prevent this accident,” Sumwalt said at a public hearing last week in Washington. “And that’s the sad thing. And you know what else is sad? Why is the FAA promoting this? This is a BFA initiative. Why is the FAA promoting it? It’s not an FAA program.” An FAA spokesman last week declined to respond to Sumwalt’s comments but said the agency “will carefully consider the NTSB’s recommendations.” To obtain a medical certificate from the FAA, pilots must undergo a physical exam and report any medical ailments. Pilots also grant the FAA permission to check their driving record for any alcohol or drug related offenses. Nichols had a string of alcohol and drug related traffic infractions on his record and wasn’t legally allowed to drive a vehicle — but the FAA allowed him to fly balloons. “An FAA medical examination is a comprehensive review of a pilot’s medical conditions and medications, and a physical examination of a pilot by a certified aviation medical examiner,” said Dr. Nick Webster, an NTSB medical expert who spoke at last week’s hearing about the Lockhart crash. Balloon pilots have been exempt from medical exams since the 1930s. Webster said the exemption meant the FAA missed opportunities to flag Nichols’ health problems, such as depression and chronic pain, and his problematic driving record. “This exemption eliminated the opportunity for an aviation medical examiner to identify the pilot’s potentially impairing medical conditions and medication, and FAA’s awareness of his history of drug and alcohol related offenses,” Webster said.
10.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), joined by Reps. Blake Farenthold (R-TX) and Will Hurd (R-TX) filed bipartisan legislation directing the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to require medical certifications for commercial balloon pilots. This bill follows the National Transportation Safety Board’s (NTSB) investigation of the fatal 2016 hot-air balloon crash that occurred in the Congressional district Rep. Doggett represents near Lockhart. “Because the FAA has failed to act, I am taking action to ensure no more families risk injury or death from unsafe hot-air balloon pilots,” said Congressman Doggett (D-TX). “The FAA should not delegate its responsibility for public safety to a private lobbying group upon which it has thus far relied. Delay risks further disasters. No more balloon tragedies should be required to justify the reasonable safety measures we need.” “This legislation will save lives and prevent tragedies like last summer’s hot air balloon crash near Lockhart,” said Congressman Farenthold (R-TX). “The FAA should require a medical certificate for commercial balloon pilots to keep people in the air and on the ground safe.” “During my DC2DQ town hall stop in Ozona this August, I was moved by the personal story of a constituent who lost a family member in the recent hot air balloon accident. While nothing will bring these innocent folks back, the tragedy shined a light on the industry, and gave us an opportunity to improve the safety of future passengers. If a commercial operator is responsible for the lives of others, he or she should be required to be licensed,” said U.S. Representative Will Hurd (R-TX). Congressman Doggett previously introduced this legislation as an amendment to the long-delayed FAA legislation, the 21st Century Aviation Innovation, Reform, and Reauthorization Act (H.R. 2997), now not likely scheduled for action until next year. In adopting its final report on Tuesday, October 17, the NTSB found FAA oversight was a contributing factor to the deadly Lockhart crash. NTSB recommended the FAA end its exemption for commercial hot-air balloon operators, requiring them to hold a medical certificate, like commercial airplane pilots. Following this most recent NTSB action, Congressman Doggett once again urged the FAA to use its existing authority to accomplish the same objective. ###
10.22.2017	U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, told congressional colleagues that President Donald Trump’s plan to cut taxes would mostly benefit America’s wealthiest. “Eighty percent of the tax breaks in this proposal go to the top 1 percent — that is, people making more than $730,000 a year,” Doggett said on the House floor. Doggett made his claim three days after Republicans announced their framework for tax system with just three tax brackets, at tax rates of 12 percent, 25 percent and 35 percent, down from the current seven tax brackets. For personal income-tax filers, the framework calls for doubling the standard income-tax deduction while repealing most itemized deductions, including personal exemptions for dependents. The framework further says that the HouseWaysand MeansCommittee and Senate Finance Committee “will work on additional measures to meaningfully reduce the tax burden on the middle-class.” Put another way, the legislation itself had yet to debut. Doggett, asked the basis of his claim, pointed to an Associated Press news story citing a preliminary review of the framework by the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center, a joint venture of the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution. According to the AP report, the center found “that about 80 percent of the tax benefit would go to the top 1 percent — with income above $730,000 annually — by 2027.” We confirmed that’s what the center’s analysis concluded for the year 2027. However, the center pegs the top-1-percent income figure for 2027 at $912,100 in 2017 dollars; it separately lists $730,000 as what the top 1 percent would earn in 2018 when about half the benefits would flow to the top 1 percent, the analysis says. Generally, experts told us that no other reports on the plan’s effects on taxpayers became public before Doggett spoke. A few days later, though, the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy — a research group that partners with Citizens for Tax Justice, which advocates for the tax interests of middle- and lower-class families — predicted that in all but a few states, at least half the framework’s tax cuts would flow to the wealthiest 1 percent of residents. Let’s get to details in the Tax Policy Center’s analysis. For starters, the center’s estimates presume that the plan would take effect in 2018 and would decrease federal revenue by $2.4 trillion over 10 years. “In 2018,” the analysis says, “all income groups would see their average taxes fall, but some taxpayers in each group would face increases. Those with the very highest incomes would receive the biggest tax cuts.” According to the center’s estimates, the top 1 percent of Americans would get 53 percent of the plan’s benefits at the start and reap 79.7 percent of the benefits in its 10th year, 2027. Under the plan, the center says, the number of taxpayers paying more in taxes would generally rise over time. “This is because the plan would replace personal exemptions, which are indexed for inflation, with additional credits for children and non-child dependents that are not indexed for inflation,” its analysis says. “In addition, indexing tax brackets and other parameters to the slower-growing chained Consumer Price Index means that over time more income is subject to tax at higher rates.” A center researcher, Joe Rosenberg, advised that the conclusion that the wealthiest Americans would reap more of the tax benefits in the 10th year traces to other Americans bearing more tax losses as a result of losing itemized deductions, especially deductions for paying state and local income taxes. Rosenberg also singled out the proposal to end the personal exemption, indexed for inflation, with a child tax credit not indexed for inflation. After the center posted its analysis, a White House adviser, Kevin Hassett, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, questioned the validity of the projections given multiple assumptions made by the center. Rosenberg, asked about that critique, pointed out that the center’s analysis says up front that many aspects of the framework “were unspecified or left to be determined by the tax-writing committees in Congress.” Our ruling Doggett said “80 percent of the tax breaks in” President Trump’s framework tax-cut “proposal go to the top 1 percent, that is, people making more than $730,000 a year.” The analysis Doggett referenced indeed indicates benefits will accrue to the very wealthy over time. Yet in the first year of changes, the top 1 percent are projected to draw a little over half the tax savings. The threshold of 80 percent going to the top 1 percent is projected for the 10th year. Also, Doggett’s stated figure for incomes is too low; it ties to the first year of implementation. We rate Doggett’s statement Half True.
10.19.2017	A House Democrat is urging the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to crack down on hot air balloon operations following a deadly crash in Texas last year. Federal investigators determined this week that the 2016 crash, which was the deadliest hot air balloon crash in U.S. history, was caused by the pilot’s poor decisionmaking, his medical conditions and medications, and a lack of federal oversight over commercial air balloon operations. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), who represents the district where the crash occurred, has been pushing the FAA to strengthen its hot air balloon laws and require that pilots get medical certificates before they are allowed to operate a hot air balloon. “Commercial balloon pilots should be required to obtain medical certificates. This is not a burdensome requirement. And the FAA should more effectively oversee the operators that pose the most significant safety risk to the public,” Doggett wrote in a letter to the FAA on Thursday. “Voluntary standards are no substitute for federal enforcement. Please do not wait for more to die before taking action.” Alfred Nichols was operating a hot air balloon in unsafe weather conditions near Lockhart, Texas, last summer, when he struck power lines and crashed in a field. Sixteen people, including Nichols, were killed. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) said that Nichols suffered from depression and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and that the combined effects of “multiple central nervous system-impairing drugs" likely affected his ability to make safe decisions. Nichols, who had a high amount of Benadryl in his system at the time of the crash, also took sedatives and opioids. But unlike commercial airline pilots, commercial balloon pilots are not required by the FAA to hold a medical certificate of any kind. Nichols’s medical conditions “would likely have led an aviation medical examiner (AME) to either defer or deny a medical certificate,” a report said. A medical examination would have made the FAA aware of the pilot’s history of drug- and alcohol-related offenses, federal investigators said. Nichols had at least four convictions for drunken driving, according to The Associated Press. The NTSB also highlighted the FAA’s lack of oversight of potentially risky commercial balloon operations, noting it only has a voluntary standards program for hot air balloon operators. “The FAA’s primary method of oversight — sampling balloon operators at festivals — does not effectively target the operations that pose the most significant safety risks to members of the public,” the NTSB report says. Doggett called the FAA’s current policy “insufficient” and “troubling.” And while he is also pushing for legislative action, Doggett noted that the FAA has the ability to act immediately on the NTSB recommendations. “The FAA must act now and adopt the safety recommendations made by the NTSB,” he wrote. “Continued rejection of NTSB’s recommendations risks condemning more unsuspecting families to death.”
10.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), a senior member of the House Committee on Ways & Means, urged Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Administrator Michael Huerta to immediately adopt the National Transportation Safety Board’s (NTSB) hot-air balloon recommendations. A 2016 hot-air balloon crash took 16 lives near Lockhart, in the Congressional district represented by Rep. Doggett. He has also authored legislative proposals to adopt these safety rules, but the FAA could and should act now. Rep. Doggett said: “Voluntary standards are no substitute for federal enforcement. The FAA must act now and adopt the safety recommendations made by the NTSB. Continued rejection of NTSB’s recommendations risks condemning more unsuspecting families to death.” Rep. Doggett’s full letter is below and attached. October 19, 2017 The Honorable Michael P. Huerta Administrator Federal Aviation Administration 800 Independence Ave SW Washington, DC 20591 Re: Hot Air Balloon Safety: Prompt Action Needed Dear Administrator Huerta: I write regarding our shared concern for the safety of balloon passengers. You are familiar with my previous request for related FAA action. And as you are well aware, two days ago, the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) found that the failure of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to require a medical certificate for commercial balloon pilots contributed to the tragic 2016 Lockhart hot-air balloon crash that killed 16 people. I strongly urge you to swiftly adopt both safety recommendations made by the NTSB. Commercial balloon pilots should be required to obtain medical certificates. This is not a burdensome requirement. And the FAA should more effectively oversee the operators that pose the most significant safety risk to the public. I am troubled by the FAA’s recent press statements regarding a voluntary program developed with the Balloon Federation of America. This program is insufficient to address the lessons painfully learned from the Lockhart crash. The pilot in the Lockhart crash, for example, was not a member of this Federation and was not participating in a festival. The NTSB makes clear that this industry program, had it been in place, would have made no difference in preventing this Texas tragedy. Voluntary standards are no substitute for federal enforcement. Please do not wait for more to die before taking action. Although I have authored legislative proposals that could eventually achieve this same result, the FAA has the authority to take this action now. Continued rejection of NTSB’s recommendations risks condemning more unsuspecting families to death. Please let me know whether you intend to implement these long-overdue improvements to hot air balloon safety. ###
10.19.2017	San Antonio, Texas – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-San Antonio), senior Member of the House Ways & Means Committee, was joined by physicians and health care providers at The Children’s Hospital of San Antonio to discuss the urgent need for federal reauthorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and share examples of how CHIP affects children and providers in San Antonio. “State CHIP programs are running on empty, and they cannot be filled with empty Republican promises that, eventually, something will be done,” Congressman Doggett said. “We are here today to be a voice for the voiceless—especially the estimated 26,800 Bexar County children who rely upon CHIP. As President Trump wreaks chaos in the broader insurance marketplace, it is even more critical that we maintain health insurance for children. CHIP had a bipartisan beginning, we urgently need that cooperation now. Congress must not linger any longer while parents are left with only uncertainty about their child’s access to a family physician.” Dr. Mark Gilger, Pediatrician-in-Chief for The Children’s Hospital of San Antonio, said, "SCHIP provides peace of mind to our children and their families because it ensures all children who visit the Children's Hospital of San Antonio can readily access essential health care services." Pediatrician & Co-Owner of South Texas Center for Pediatric Care, Dr. Dianna Burns-Banks said, “On behalf of the over 4,800 members of the Bexar County Medical Society and the over 4,000 members of the Texas Pediatric Society, physicians are urging Congress to accelerate the reauthorization of CHIP funding.” Dr. Burns-Banks is also a representative of Bexar County Medical Society. “In my practice, I see firsthand how providing access to healthcare for children is an investment in our collective future,” said Dr. Rudy Morales Urby, Community Health Family Physician. “As we strive to educate our country’s children, so should we ensure their health by reauthorizing CHIP—allowing them to learn, to realize their potential, and to be productive citizens one day.” “One in five kids in Texas and across the United States suffer from a diagnosable mental disorder – about 40,000 to 80,000 children and teens in Bexar County alone,” said Fred Hines, President & CEO of Clarity Child Guidance Center. “What is truly disheartening, according to the American Academy of Pediatrics, only 21% of those kids will receive needed treatment. Further, we know that treatment works, and like any chronic illness, the sooner the problem is identified and treated, the more successful the outcome. CHIP has enabled hundreds of thousands of Texas kids, kids who would have been excluded, to access that early identification and treatment.” The Republican Congress failed to prevent CHIP from expiring on September 30, putting at risk the health of nearly 400,000 children and 36,000 pregnant women across Texas. The Center for Public Policy Priorities estimates that 26,800 of the children in Texas CHIP reside in Bexar County, based on historical enrollment. You can view Rep. Doggett’s full remarks on his Facebook page here: www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett (Rep. Doggett’s remarks begin at 3:45) And on YouTube here: https://youtu.be/heZpO1imAAk ###
10.19.2017	San Antonio, Texas — Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett will discuss the urgent need for federal reauthorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and Congressional failure to prevent the critical program from expiring. Rep. Doggett will be joined by physicians and health care providers who will discuss how CHIP affects children in San Antonio. Press are encouraged to attend. Who: U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett Dr. Mark Gilger, Pediatrician-in-Chief for The Children’s Hospital of San Antonio Dr. Dianna Burns-Banks, Pediatrician & Co-Owner of South Texas Center for Pediatric Care, Representative of Bexar County Medical Society Dr. Rudy Morales Urby, Community Health Family Physician Fred Hines, CEO of Clarity Child Guidance Center Physicians and those affected Where: The Children’s Hospital of San Antonio, Goldsbury Foundation Lobby 333 N Santa Rosa St, San Antonio, TX 78207 Please enter on the N. San Saba Street block. Valet parking will be available. When: Thursday, October 19, 2017, 10:00 AM Follow Rep. Doggett on Facebook at www.Facebook.com/RepLloydDoggett and on Twitter & Instagram at @RepLloydDoggett.
10.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), senior member of the House Committee on Ways & Means, issued a statement on the National Transportation Safety Board’s (NTSB) findings in its investigation of the fatal 2016 hot-air balloon crash that occurred in the Congressional district he represents near Lockhart. The NTSB recommended the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) end its exemption for commercial hot-air balloon operators, requiring them to hold a medical certificate, like commercial airplane pilots. Rep. Doggett said: “I have long pressed the FAA to strengthen balloon safety to avert another disaster. While I have a pending amendment to long-delayed FAA legislation to require medical certificates for commercial balloon operators, nothing prevents the FAA from acting now. I agree fully with the NTSB Chairman that the FAA has been ‘shirking its responsibility.’ FAA’s rejection of NTSB recommendations would condemn more unsuspecting families to death.” ###
10.16.2017	After President Trump signed an executive order Thursday aimed at dismantling some parts of the Affordable Care Act, several organizations are working to enroll Texas residents in health insurance and hope to dispel confusion arising from the administration’s announcement. Trump plans to immediately halt federal payments for cost-sharing discounts, which reimburse insurers for lowering deductibles and co-pays for some customers. Additionally, Trump’s executive order asks federal agencies to find ways to expand both the use of association health plans and what constitutes short-term insurance. Short-term insurance is exempt from the Affordable Care Act. Association health plans are small businesses that join together to buy a health insurance plan. Trump’s executive order is a directive, not a law, and on Friday morning, he called on Congress to find a repeal-and-replace plan despite the new measures. “The Democrats ObamaCare is imploding. Massive subsidy payments to their pet insurance companies has stopped. Dems should call me to fix!” Trump tweeted. Congressmen Joaquin Castro, D-San Antonio, and Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, slammed Trump’s order on health care. “Texans will lose coverage and pay more for health care because of President Trump’s recent moves to sabotage the insurance marketplace,” Castro said in a statement. Doggett criticized Trump for a soaring “insurance surcharge” and for his latest “one-two punch” that is “meant to knock out affordable health care.” “Like the Russians, who sought to sow chaos in last year’s election, Trump, the master saboteur, by tweet and decree, is wreaking health care chaos,” Doggett said. Trump’s announcements resulted in a haze of confusion for those seeking to enroll, starting Nov. 1, in the federal health care market and heightened the uncertainty that many insurance providers have felt since efforts to repeal the act began in the summer, though without success. “It’s just unconscionable that decision after decision would be made to make (insurance) less affordable and less accessible for people that need something so necessary,” said Stacey Pogue, a senior policy analyst for the Center for Public Policy Priorities, a left-leaning think tank in Austin. For many Texas residents, the questions are whether the Affordable Care Act is still in place and if financial help is still available. Trump’s cut to cost-sharing means that federal dollars will no longer pay for discounts to certain qualified customers and instead insurers will have to cover the cost entirely since they are required to under the act. Some insurance carriers anticipated that Trump would eliminate the funding and subsequently prepared to raise premiums for 2018. The insurers that haven’t increased premiums might do so now, given Trump’s announcement. Those who are enrolled in insurance and receive premium subsidies will be unaffected. Premium subsidies are separate from the cost-sharing discounts. Those who earn too much to receive premium subsidies, specifically middle- to upper-income Americans, could get hit with higher premiums, Pogue said. Of the 1.7 million Texans who get their insurance under the Affordable Care Act, half do not receive premium subsidies. “That individual market insurance is facing a lot of uncertainty and instability because of the last 48 hours,” Pogue said. The consequences of Trump’s directives are still unknown to policymakers and insurers. What will 2018 look like? Will subsidies still allow for health care to be affordable? “I think there’s a lot of confusion among consumers,” Pogue said. “I don’t know that is an accident. That might be part of the strategy around the timing of these decisions … to have a barrage of decisions that make it confusing over whether coverage is available, affordable.” In August, the administration cut 90 percent of the money for marketing and advertising used for outreach to help people understand and enroll in health insurance plans, Pogue said. As a result, Cover Texas Now, a coalition of organizations for sustainable health care, is ramping up recruitment of volunteers and raising money to continue reaching out to Texans during open enrollment, which closes Dec. 15. Indivisible 21, which was formed in opposition to Trump’s election, has been tapping its networks to find volunteers to canvass areas statewide to help people sign up for health coverage. That effort is now even more important as many are left unsure of what Trump’s announcements mean for their coverage, said Lisa Goodgame, the president of Indivisible 21 in Austin. “I do find myself sort of standing in disbelief every day that these efforts to sabotage a program that has helped 20 million people get insured in the last several years,” she said.
10.13.2017	WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump is throwing a bomb into the insurance marketplaces created under the Affordable Care Act, choosing to end critical payments to health insurers that help millions of lower-income Americans afford coverage. The decision follows an executive order on Thursday to allow alternative health plans that skirt the law’s requirements. The White House confirmed late Thursday that it would halt federal payments for cost-sharing reductions, although a statement did not specify when. According to two people briefed on the decision, the cutoff will be as of November. The subsidies total about $7 billion this year. Trump has threatened for months to stop the payments, which help eligible consumers afford their deductibles and other out-of-pocket expenses, but held off while other administration officials warned him that such a move would cause an implosion of the ACA marketplaces that could be blamed on Republicans. Health insurers and state regulators have been in a state of high anxiety over the prospect of the marketplaces cratering because of such White House action. The fifth year’s open-enrollment season for consumers to buy coverage through ACA exchanges will open in less than three weeks, and insurers have said that stopping the cost-sharing payments would be the single greatest step the Trump administration could take to harm the marketplaces - and the law. Ending the payments is grounds for any insurer to back out of its federal contract to sell health plans for 2018. The cost-sharing reductions have long been the subject of a political and legal seesaw. Congressional Republicans argued that the sprawling 2010 health-care law that established the subsidies does not include specific language providing appropriations to cover the government’s cost. House Republicans sued HHS over the payments during former President Barack Obama’s second term. A federal court agreed that they were illegal, and the case has been pending before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. “The bailout of insurance companies through these unlawful payments is yet another example of how the previous administration abused taxpayer dollars and skirted the law to prop up a broken system,” a statement from the White House said. “Congress needs to repeal and replace the disastrous Obamacare law and provide real relief to the American people.” For months, administration officials have debated privately about what to do. The president has consistently pushed to cut them off, according to officials and advisers who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss private conversations. Some top health officials within the administration, including former Health and Human Services secretary Tom Price, cautioned that this could exacerbate already escalating premiums on the ACA market, these Republicans said. But some government lawyers also argued that the payments were not authorized under the existing law, according to one administration official, and would be difficult to keep defending in court. While the administration will now argue that Congress should appropriate the funds if it wants them to continue, such a proposal will face a serious hurdle on Capitol Hill. In a recent interview, Rep. Tom Cole, R-Okla., who chairs the House Appropriations Subcommittee overseeing HHS, said it would be difficult to muster support for such a move among House conservatives. One person familiar with the president’s decision said that HHS officials and Trump’s domestic policy advisers had urged him to continue the payments at least through the end of the year. The cost-sharing payments are separate from a different subsidy that provides federal assistance on premiums to more than four-fifths of the 10 million Americans with ACA coverage. Word of the president’s decision, which was first reported by Politico, came just hours after he signed the executive order intended to circumvent the ACA by making it easier for individuals and small businesses to buy alternative types of health insurance with lower prices, fewer benefits and weaker government protections. The White House and allies portrayed the president’s move as wielding administrative powers to accomplish what congressional Republicans have failed to achieve: fostering more coverage choices while tearing down the law’s insurance marketplaces. Until the White House’s announcement late Thursday, the executive order represented Trump’s biggest step to date to reverse the health-care policies of the Obama administration, a central promise since last year’s presidential campaign. Critics, who include state insurance commissioners, most of the health-insurance industry and mainstream policy specialists, predict that a proliferation of these other kinds of coverage will have damaging ripple effects, driving up costs for consumers with serious medical conditions and prompting more insurers to flee the law’s marketplaces. Part of Trump’s action, they say, will spark court challenges over its legality. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett of San Antonio, the lead Democrat on the Ways and Means tax-writing subcommittee, referred to Trump’s order as “sabotage” that will lead to “bare-bones, junk insurance” that abandons people with pre-existing conditions. He added: “Those who need coverage the most will be unable to afford it once this move splinters the market and yet another Trump surcharge is added to premiums.” The most far-reaching element of the order instructs a trio of Cabinet departments to rewrite federal rules for “association health plans” - a form of insurance in which small businesses of a similar type band together through an association to negotiate health benefits. These plans have had to meet coverage requirements and consumer protections under the 2010 health-care law, but the administration is likely to exempt them from those rules and let such plans be sold from state to state without insurance licenses in each one. In addition, the order is designed to expand the availability of short-term insurance policies, which offer limited benefits as a bridge for people between jobs or young adults no longer eligible for their parents’ health plans. The Obama administration ruled that short-term insurance may not last for more than three months; Trump wants to extend that to nearly a year. Trump’s action also is intended to widen employers’ ability to use pretax dollars in “health reimbursement arrangements” to help workers pay for any medical expenses, not just for health policies that meet ACA rules - another reversal of Obama policy. In a late-morning signing ceremony in the White House’s Roosevelt Room, surrounded by supportive small-business owners, Cabinet members and a few Republicans from Capitol Hill, the president spoke in his characteristic superlatives about the effects of his action and what he called “the Obamacare nightmare.” Trump said that Thursday’s move, which will trigger months of regulatory work by federal agencies, “is only the beginning.” He promised “even more relief and more freedom” from ACA rules. And although leading GOP lawmakers are eager to move on from their unsuccessful attempts this year to abolish central facets of the 2010 law, Trump said that “we are going to pressure Congress very strongly to finish the repeal and replace of Obamacare.” The executive order will fulfill a quest by conservative Republican lawmakers, especially in the House, who have tried for more than two decades to expand the availability of association health plans by allowing them to be sold, unregulated, across state lines. On the other hand, Trump’s approach conflicts with what he and GOP leaders in Congress have held out as a main health-policy goal - giving each state more discretion over matters of insurance. Health policy experts in think tanks, academia and the health-care industry pointed out that the order’s language is fairly broad, so the ensuing fine print in agencies’ rules will determine whether the impact will be as sweeping or quick as Trump boasted - his directive will provide “millions of people with Obamacare relief,” he said. Significant questions that remain include whether individuals will be able to join associations, a point that could raise legal issues; whether the administration will start to let association health plans count toward the ACA’s requirement that most Americans carry insurance; and whether such plans can charge higher prices to small businesses with sicker workers - or refuse to insure them. The president issued the directive less than three weeks before the Nov. 1 start of the fifth open-enrollment season in ACA marketplaces for people who do not have access to affordable health benefits through a job. Trump noted that about half of the nation’s counties will have just one insurer in their exchange, and he claimed that “many will have none.” However, the most recent canvass shows that there will be no “bare” counties in 2018. A senior administration official, speaking to reporters on the condition of anonymity shortly before Trump signed the order, said that the policy changes it sets in motion will require agencies to follow customary procedures to write new rules and solicit public comment. That means new insurance options will not be available in time for coverage beginning in January, he said. Even so, with a shortened sign-up period and large cuts in federal funds for advertising and enrollment help already hobbling the marketplaces, “if there’s a lot of hoopla around new options that may be available soon, it could be one more thing that discourages enrollment,” said Larry Levitt, the Kaiser Family Foundation’s senior vice president. Other aspects of the executive order include commissioning a six-month study, to be led by federal health officials, of ways to limit consolidation within the insurance and hospital industries. Trump also directed agencies to find additional means to increase competition and choice in health care to improve its quality and lower its cost. The order produced predictable reactions in Congress, with Republican leaders praising the move and Democrats accusing the White House of sabotaging the law. Among policy experts, critics warned that young and healthy people who use relatively little insurance will gravitate to association health plans because of their lower price tags. That would concentrate older and sicker customers in ACA marketplaces with spiking rates. Mike Consedine, chief executive of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) said Thursday that the group has long opposed such plans and is concerned that the administration will allow ones that can bypass state licenses and have such weak financial underpinnings that some will collapse, leaving customers stranded and state insurance regulators “picking up the pieces.” Short-term health insurance makes up a tiny fraction of the policies sold, with fewer than 30 companies covering only about 160,000 people nationwide at the end of last year, according to NAIC data. Experts could not point to figures for how many association health plans exist or how many people they insure. Such arrangements have existed for decades, and scandals have on occasion exposed “multi-employer welfare arrangements” started by unscrupulous operators who took members’ money and either did not have enough reserves to cover hospital bills or absconded with premiums. The National Federation of Independent Business, a small-business lobby, has pressed Congress to allow use of association plans, arguing that they can be less expensive and give workers more insurance choices. Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., has promoted the idea, and he stood just behind Trump at the morning ceremony. After nearly walking out of the room without signing the order, the president returned to affix his signature to the document and then hand Paul the pen. Selling health plans from state to state without separate licenses - the idea underlying much of the president’s order - has long been a Republican mantra. It has gained little traction in practice, however. Half a dozen states - before the ACA was passed in 2010 as well as since then - have passed laws permitting insurers to sell health policies approved by other states. And since last year, the ACA has allowed “compacts” in which groups of states can agree that health plans licensed in any of them could be sold in the others. Under such compacts, federal health officials must make sure the plans offer at least the same benefits and are as affordable as those sold in the ACA marketplaces. As of this summer, “no state was known to actually offer or sell such policies,” according to a report by the National Conference of State Legislatures. A main reason, experts say, is insurers’ difficulty in arranging networks of doctors and other providers of care far from their home states.
10.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), senior member of the House Committee on Ways & Means and Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Tax Policy, issued a statement challenging President Donald Trump’s decision to cut off critical cost-sharing reduction payments, jeopardizing health care coverage for millions across the country. Rep. Doggett said: “Like the Russians, who sought to sow chaos in last year’s election, Trump, the master saboteur, by tweet and decree, is wreaking health care chaos. The Trump insurance ‘surcharge’ is now soaring—with nonpartisan analysis estimating that this single action will hike premiums by at least 20 percent. With his repeated interference, Trump’s latest one-two punch is meant to knock out affordable health care.” In August, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated that terminating the cost-sharing reduction payments to insurers would increase the net federal deficit by $194 billion from 2017-2026. Cost-sharing reductions are designed to lower out-of-pocket costs for consumers. CBO also calculated that gross premiums for silver plans would rise by 20 percent in 2018 and 25 percent by 2020. ###
10.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Senior Member of the Ways & Means Committee, condemned President Trump’s decision to decertify Iran’s compliance with the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). In 2015, Rep. Doggett, along with Reps. Jan Schakowsky and David Price, led a successful House whip effort to counter Republican obstruction of Obama Administration nuclear negotiations. You can read more about that here. Today, Rep. Doggett said: “Continuing to erode American leadership, President Trump’s impulsive disregard of military advice aids our adversaries and agitates our allies. His go-it-alone approach jeopardizes our security and undermines confidence in America. Congress now must choose between honoring our international commitments or ignoring the reality of Iranian compliance and placing us upon a path of isolation and ultimately war. Let’s prioritize peace and safety by rejecting Trump’s folly.” Rep. Doggett, along with more than 180 Members of Congress, including those who both voted for and against the Iran Nuclear Agreement, recently urged the President to honor the JCPOA. That letter can be found here. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Defense Secretary General Mattis, our intelligence officials, and other JCPOA signatories favor recertification, since Iran has remained in compliance. ###
10.12.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 12, 2017 Contact: Kate Stotesbery (202) 225-4865 Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), senior member of the House Committee on Ways & Means and Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Tax Policy, issued a statement condemning President Donald Trump’s executive order to undermine the Affordable Care Act and harm those with pre-existing conditions. Rep. Doggett said: “Having failed legislatively to replace Obamacare, President Trump continues his effort to sabotage it. Today’s Trumpcare edict means bare-bones, junk insurance will undermine health care, removing protections against high out-of-pocket costs and abandoning those with preexisting conditions. The policies’ fine print will take away sales promotion promises. Those who need coverage the most will be unable to afford it once this move splinters the market and yet another Trump surcharge is added to premiums.” ###
10.11.2017	Some local health care proponents — including U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett — say they fear fewer people may sign up for insurance plans under the Affordable Care Act this year when open enrollment begins Nov. 1, even though the law remains standing despite high-profile Republican efforts to repeal it. Open enrollment for medical coverage that begins Jan. 1 will last six weeks through Dec. 15, compared to a three-month enrollment period in previous years. In addition, the Trump administration — which opposes the law — has cut the federal advertising budget to promote enrollment by 90 percent, to $10 million. “They seem determined to sabotage it because they can’t repeal it,” said Doggett, D-Austin, speaking at an Tuesday event at Austin’s Capital Factory to plug the upcoming start of enrollment. “There is not an effort nationally through the federal government to promote the Affordable Care Act” this year. Regardless, consumers in the Austin area will have a new entrant in the local insurance market to choose from when open enrollment begins Nov. 1. Oscar Health — a five-year-old startup with a variety of big-name backers, including Google — will be expanding into Travis, Williamson, Hays and Comal counties for 2018. New York-based Oscar Health also operates in Bexar County, which encompasses San Antonio. Mario Schlosser, Oscar Health’s chief executive, said during Tuesday’s event that the company’s local hospital network is built around the Seton and Baylor Scott and White systems, while it has built its own local network of primary-care physicians and specialists that includes the Austin Regional Clinic. Despite “all the political issues” surrounding health care, Schlosser said he’s optimistic about the sector because he views it as increasingly consumer-driven and ripe for innovation. Oscar Health is using technology — such as telemedicine — to attempt to improve medical outcomes and bring down costs by proactively interacting with its customers and linking them with the care they need, he said. Schlosser started Oscar Health with Joshua Kushner, the younger brother of Jared Kushner, President Donald Trump’s son-in-law. The company is named Oscar Health after Kushner’s great-grandfather and because it sounds congenial, Schlosser said. But despite the White House connections, he said Oscar Health has no special pull or insight into the Trump Administration’s health care strategy. He said he’s confident consumers will be able to purchase health insurance and access quality medical care no matter how the debate turns out. “At the end of the day, I don’t think the federal government will let 15 million people (who are estimated to have received insurance through the Affordable Care Act) go back on the streets,” he said. “I don’t think the clock will get turned back on 15 million people.” Doggett, who applauded Oscar Health’s entrance into the local insurance market, said Tuesday that he’s hopeful a bipartisan effort in the U.S. Senate to try to stabilize insurance markets and improve health care will gain some traction, after the latest GOP effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act — known as Obamacare — collapsed last month. U.S. Sens. Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., and Patty Murray, D-Wash., had been attempting to craft a bipartisan plan before their attempt was sidelined during the recent repeal push. In the interim, Doggett said, consumers in the Austin area and elsewhere should avail themselves of the opportunity during the upcoming Affordable Care Act enrollment period to gain valuable health insurance that guarantees coverage for pre-existing conditions and other critical medical needs. Jamie Dudensing, chief executive of the Texas Association of Health Plans, concurred with Doggett during Tuesday’s event that the lack of a push from the federal government during this year’s enrollment period could reduce the public’s awareness of it and result in some people not signing up in time. “We’re hoping that consumers are going to still come out” and enroll, she said. But “there were much longer time periods to purchase (insurance) in the past.”
10.05.2017	Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Tex.) joins members of the Congressional Progressive Caucus and representatives of progressive activist groups for a news conference outside the U.S. Capitol on Oct. 4. (Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images) In August, a month before the release of their framework for tax cuts, Republicans thought they saw an ally in Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio). The congressman, a critic of his party leaders, repeatedly insisted that his party seemed too “anti-business.” Ryan’s support for “tax reform” perked up the American Action Network, a conservative group aligned with House Republicans, which ran TV ads thanking the Democrat. But last week, when the framework dropped, Ryan wasn’t sold. “It looks like a dog,” Ryan said in a short interview at the Polk County Democrats’ fundraiser in Iowa last weekend. “Getting rid of the Alternative Minimum Tax, which makes sure that the wealthy pay at least something? Getting rid of the estate tax? It’s a big tax cut for Trump and people like Trump.” The sales pitch for tax restructuring, which after several false starts is finally underway, is in part a pitch aimed at vulnerable Democrats. AAN is one of several groups buying ads and releasing polls that show sky-high support for some version of “tax reform.” President Trump’s speeches on the issue, which have diverged from the contents of the GOP’s framework, have taken place in three states where Republicans hope to beat incumbent senators in 2018 — Missouri, North Dakota, and Indiana.
10.05.2017	The Texas Tribune asked all 38 members of the state's congressional delegation whether they would consider a ban on "bump stocks," the type of gun attachment used by the Las Vegas mass shooter. BY ABBY LIVINGSTON AND CHRIS ESSIG OCT. 4, 2017 14 HOURS AGO WASHINGTON — Over several hours on Wednesday afternoon, something quite unusual happened on Capitol Hill: A small gun-control measure began to pick up public inerest from a half-dozen or so congressional Republicans. After Sunday night's mass shooting in Las Vegas that resulted in the deaths of 59 people and well over 500 wounded, many in the political arena were focusing on a legal firearm enhancement known as a "bump" or "bumper stock" that the shooter used to essentially convert multiple guns into automatic weapons. U.S. Rep. Bill Flores, R-Bryan, was one of the first Republicans to call for a bump stock ban on Wednesday afternoon. Minutes later, U.S. Sen. John Cornyn chimed in, saying he wants Congress to look into the attachments. The Texas Tribune spent the afternoon checking in with the other 36 members of the delegation. Initially, only 10 of the 38 members immediately responded to our request — though it was an exceptionally hectic afternoon on Capitol Hill, and many Texans were swamped with hearings and floor speeches as this story picked up speed. The Tribune will update this story as new responses come in. Most of the statements were carefully worded to avoid jumping to conclusions as the investigation in Las Vegas continues. But federal lawmakers may not be able to stay on the fence for long because Republicans elsewhere around the country said they would soon push Congress to address bump stocks. U.S. Rep. Roger Williams was the first Republican to say outright he would not support a bump stock ban, while most Democrats who responded said they would eagerly support a ban. U.S. Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Dallas took a middle path in her answer: While she decried the level of gun violence in the country and expressed a desire to "get at the motives driving these individuals toward violence," Johnson said she was "not so sure that a ban on bumper stocks would have done anything to prevent the incident in Las Vegas." Sen. John Cornyn R In a Wednesday conference call, Cornyn said he was "for law abiding citizens who have no criminal record and no mental impairment or disability being able to exercise their second amendment rights to the fullest extent of the law." But, he added: "I will tell you that the unique aspect of the bump stock and how you would literally transform a semi automatic weapon into an automatic weapon is something that bears looking into. And I talked to chairman Grassley of the Senate Judiciary Committee, and I believe that once the investigation is complete and we learn all aspects of what attributed to this event, then we should have a hearing and look into it, and that should include the bump stock, but also any other aspect of this terrible crime that we need to look at from a federal perspective." Rep. John Culberson R (District 7) “The investigation is still underway and it’s important that we know the facts before we make any policy decisions," Culberson said in a statement. Rep. Bill Flores R (District 17) “I think they should be banned. There’s no reason for a typical gun owner to own anything that converts a semi-automatic to something that behaves like an automatic,” Flores told The Hill newspaper. “Based on the videos I heard and saw, and now that I’ve studied up on what a bump stock is — I didn’t know there was such a thing — there’s no reason for it." Flores issued a statement Wednesday evening saying: "As a gun owner and a staunch supporter and defender of the Second Amendment, I believe that the recent tragedy in Las Vegas prompts a congressional review of bump stocks and similar devices that allow semiautomatic weapons to behave like automatic weapons, which are currently subject to tight federal licensing requirements.” Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee D (District 18) "Congresswoman Jackson Lee supports a total ban on the sale of Bump Stocks," a spokesperson told the Tribune. Rep. Joaquin Castro D (District 20) "Rep. Castro supports banning bump stocks," a spokesperson told the Tribune. Rep. Pete Olson R (District 22) “The FBI is investigating the type of weapons used by the shooter and whether they were illegally modified," Olson said in a statement. "If that investigation reveals there were circumstances within the law that are not already addressed, I will evaluate that with my colleagues in order to address those shortcomings.” Rep. Roger Williams R (District 25) “When tragedies, such as the Las Vegas shooting, happen in our nation, it is often a knee-jerk reaction from the left to call for Congress to implement more regulations, such as stronger gun control — this is not the answer," Williams said in a statement. "This is still an ongoing investigation and right now our focus needs be on helping the people and law enforcement of Las Vegas in any way that that we can. I have always been a strong supporter of the second amendment, and disarming America, by increasing legislation, will not fix problems like this." Rep. Henry Cuellar D (District 28) “From the attack that wounded Congressman Scalise to the tragedy in Las Vegas, it is clear that gun violence needs to be addressed," Cuellar said in a statement. "When the investigation is completed I will be working with my friends on both sides of the aisle and in both houses to craft commonsense policies to protect Americans and curb gun violence while protecting our Constitutional rights." Rep. Gene Green D (District 29) "I can tell you on record that Congressman Green supports regulations that ban bump stocks and is interested in working with Republicans who want to find a legislative solution," a spokesman told the Tribune. Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson D (District 30) "We need to be considering any and all approaches to reducing gun violence in this country. No other developed country in the world experiences the amount of gun violence that we do here in the United States. However, I am not so sure that a ban on bumper stocks would have done anything to prevent the incident in Las Vegas. We need to get at the motives driving these individuals toward violence. Until we do that and take deliberate steps to address those issues, we cannot reasonably expect to see an end to the violence," Johnson said in a statement. Rep. Lloyd Doggett D (District 35) “Apparently this massacre has moved even the NRA to acquiesce in one narrow bump stock provision in order to bump consideration of any other gun safety measures," Doggett said in a statement. "One and done is not enough. Republicans want much more than their pending bill to loosen restrictions on gun silencers. They are still trying to silence full, fair, bipartisan debate on meaningful ways to make our families safer, such as closing the gun show loophole.” Did not comment Sen. Ted Cruz R Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Louie Gohmert R (District 1) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Ted Poe R (District 2) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Sam Johnson R (District 3) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. John Ratcliffe R (District 4) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Jeb Hensarling R (District 5) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Joe Barton R (District 6) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Kevin Brady R (District 8) A Brady spokesperson declined to comment. Rep. Al Green D (District 9) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Michael McCaul R (District 10) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Mike Conaway R (District 11) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Kay Granger R (District 12) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Mac Thornberry R (District 13) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Randy Weber R (District 14) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Beto O'Rourke D (District 16) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Lamar Smith R (District 21) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Will Hurd R (District 23) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Michael Burgess R (District 26) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Blake Farenthold R (District 27) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. John Carter R (District 31) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Pete Sessions R (District 32) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Marc Veasey D (District 33) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Filemon Vela D (District 34) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Brian Babin R (District 36) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Jodey Arrington R (District 19) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Kenny Marchant R (District 24) Did not respond to request for comment Rep. Vicente Gonzalez D (District 15) Did not respond to request for comment
10.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Ways & Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, delivered remarks at press conference hosted by the Congressional Progressive Caucus to call on Congress to reject President Trump’s latest tax plan, a multi-trillion dollar giveaway to the superrich at the expense of the middle class. Rep. Doggett was joined by House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer, other Democratic Members of Congress, and advocates. Rep. Doggett said: “Mr. Trump talks like a populist but governs like a plutocrat. The Republican opening act of tax breaks for the superrich disguised as healthcare repeal collapsed, but the President and his enablers have set the stage for the main event: a massive transfer of wealth from the Treasury to those who already have the most treasure. This plan actually raises the bottom rate and cuts the top rate, eliminates the estate tax, and expands a loophole to line Trump’s own pocket. 80% of the tax breaks would go to the top 1%, those making more than $730,000 a year, while many Americans could actually see a tax increase. “Republicans should have learned from their health repeal fiasco that keeping the details hidden under lock-and-key won’t make their sorry plan more popular. The American people don’t want to shower those at the top with tax breaks, while they are left to foot the bill through cuts to Social Security, Medicare and education. Passage depends upon how quickly the truth can catch up with the lies. What they say the plan does, it doesn’t do.” You can view Congressman Doggett’s full remarks here https://youtu.be/6iRG5G8pvN0 and on his Facebook Page here at about the 3:15 mark: https://www.facebook.com/lloyddoggett/ ###
10.04.2017	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Ways & Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, filed his fifth amendment to authorize the Ways and Means Committee to obtain President Donald Trump’s tax returns. Rep. Doggett said: “Never before in recent American history has a president stood to personally gain so much from something he has proposed. Before we consider even a penny worth of tax breaks for the wealthiest few and large multinationals, the American people have a right to know whether Trump’s tax plan is mostly about more enrichment for himself and his family. This amendment would end the Republican cover-up of Trump’s tax returns. “We of course cannot know whether the benefit for Trump will be “bigly” or merely HUGE until Republicans lift their cover-up of Trump’s tax returns. But his tax plan offers some good clues. Repealing the estate tax – which would benefit just two out of every 1,000 estates – would mean about $1.1 billion for the Trump family based on estimates of his wealth. If he’s worth as much as he says he is, it could be much more.” According to an analysis from the New York Times, President Trump could save more than $1 billion from his new tax plan. Rep. Doggett has filed four separate amendments in the Ways and Means Committee to obtain President Trump’s tax returns – on February 14, March 8, March 28, and May 24. The Committee voted all four times along party lines to continue to cover-up the President’s tax returns, and the House has refused repeatedly to act on President Trump’s tax returns. On June 13, Congressman Doggett has also offered a “privileged resolution” on the House Floor to immediately request the President’s tax returns and those of his businesses. This resolution was voted down. You can find a video of Congressman Doggett’s remarks, introducing his amendment here: https://youtu.be/CHMy_uXj84k ###
10.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Senior Member of the Ways & Means Committee, joined Rep. David Price (D-NC) and more than 180 Members of Congress, including the entire House Democratic Leadership and those who both voted for and against the Iran Nuclear Agreement, to urge the President to recertify Iran’s compliance with the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). “President Trump must choose the path of verifiable peace,” said Congressman Doggett. “He has repeatedly signaled—alone and through his Administration—that he wants an excuse to back out of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). With the October 15 recertification deadline looming, I urge the President not use this as his escape hatch. Experts’ consensus is that the deal is working, and Trump should not strip us of our diplomatic tools to respond to this dangerous regime. The arsenal of our democracy is more than our strong military. We – Members who both voted for and against the JCPOA – urge President Trump not to recklessly undo years of diplomatic pressure and tangible progress.” “For more than two years, the JCPOA has realized its objective of constraining Iran’s nuclear program to prevent a nuclear-armed Iran,” said Congressman Price. “Without ironclad evidence of Iranian violations of the agreement, withholding Iran’s certification of JCPOA compliance would jeopardize our national security, harm our international relationships, and embolden Iran. We urge the President to heed the advice of his military and intelligence advisors rather than play politics with national security.” Announced in July 2015, the JCPOA was negotiated by the “P5+1” (United States, China, France, Russia, United Kingdom, and Germany), the European Union, and Iran that sought to cut off Iran’s path to nuclear weapons capability. The letter comes in response to recent suggestions by President Trump that he may withhold certification of Iran’s compliance with the JCPOA, which must be re-certified every three months under the terms of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act (INARA). INARA also requires the President to provide Congress with credible evidence of Iranian noncompliance, should violations of the JCPOA occur. No such evidence has been provided to Congress to-date, and the International Atomic Energy Agency, U.S. military and intelligence officials, and U.S. allies have indicated that Iran remains in technical compliance with the agreement. A copy of the letter to the President is below. Dear Mr. President, We are writing to urge that you do not withhold certification on the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) absent credible evidence of a material breach by Iran. Some of us voted for, and some against, the nuclear agreement with Iran. Nonetheless, we are united in our belief that enforcing this agreement to the fullest extent will provide the United States with more leverage to stop a potential Iranian nuclear weapons program and push back on Iran’s destabilizing activities. The Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act (INARA) requires the President to provide to Congress credible evidence of Iranian noncompliance should violations of the JCPOA occur. We have received no such information to date. On the contrary, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and career U.S. military and intelligence officials continue to verify that Iran has honored its obligations under the agreement, and we remain unaware of any material change in Iranian activity since you last certified compliance to Congress on July 17. Absent credible and accurate information confirming a material breach, we are concerned that withholding certification of Iran’s compliance or walking away from the JCPOA would harm our alliances, embolden Iran, and threaten U.S. national security. We are further concerned that non-certification based on justifications beyond the scope of the nuclear agreement would threaten global non-proliferation efforts and send exactly the wrong message to North Korea at the moment we are trying to diplomatically defuse that crisis. Countries should know that unless Iran commits a material breach of the JCPOA, the United States will keep its word. We share concerns about Iran’s activities in the region, including its ballistic missile development, support for proxies and terror groups, violations of the human rights of its people, and backing of the Assad regime. That is why the Congress took the step of passing the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA), which provides new tools to counter Iran’s malign activities. We remain hopeful that with strong U.S. leadership, we can ensure vigorous enforcement of the JCPOA, as well as implementation of non-nuclear and multilateral sanctions, including CAATSA, to keep the American people secure and safeguard American interests. Signatories include the following Members of the U.S. House of Representatives: Adams, Alma Aguilar, Pete Barragan, Nanette Bass, Karen Beatty, Joyce Bera, Ami Beyer, Don Bishop, Sanford Blumenauer, Earl Bonamici, Suzanne Bordallo, Madeleine Brady, Bob Brown, Anthony Brownley, Julia Bustos, Cheri Butterfield, G.K. Capuano, Mike Carbajal, Salud Cardenas, Tony Carson, Andre Cartwright, Matt Castor, Kathy Castro, Joaquin Chu, Judy Cicilline, David Clark, Katherine Clarke, Yvette Clay, Lacy Cleaver, Emanuel Clyburn, Jim Cohen, Steve Coleman, Bonnie Watson Connolly, Gerry Conyers, John Cooper, Jim Costa, Jim Courtney, Joe Crist, Charlie Crowley, Joe Cuellar, Henry Cummings, Elijah Davis, Danny Davis, Susan DeFazio, Pete DeGette, Diana Delaney, John DeLauro, Rosa Delbene, Suzan Demings, Val DeSaulnier, Mark Deutch, Ted Dingell, Debbie Doggett, Lloyd Doyle, Mike Ellison, Keith Engel, Eliot Eshoo, Anna Espaillat, Adriano Esty, Elizabeth Evans, Dwight Foster, Bill Frankel, Lois Fudge, Marcia Gabbard, Tulsi Gallego, Ruben Garamendi, John Gomez, Jimmy Green, Al Green, Gene Grijalva, Raul Grisham, Michelle Lujan Gutierrez, Luis Hanabusa, Colleen Hastings, Alcee Heck, Denny Higgins, Brian Himes, Jim Holmes Norton, Eleanor Hoyer, Steny Huffman, Jared Jackson Lee, Sheila Jayapal, Pramila Jeffries, Hakeem Johnson, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Hank Kaptur, Marcy Keating, Bill Kelly, Robin Kennedy, Joe Khanna, Ro Kihuen, Ruben Kildee, Dan Kilmer, Derek Krishnamoorthi, Raja Kuster, Ann Langevin, Jim Larsen, Rick Larson, John Lawrence, Brenda Lawson Jr., Alfred Lee, Barbara Levin, Sandy Lewis, John Lieu, Ted Loebsack, Dave Lofgren, Zoe Lowenthal, Alan Lowey, Nita Lujan, Ben Ray Lynch, Stephen Maloney, Carolyn Maloney, Sean Patrick Matsui, Doris McCollum, Betty McEachin, Don McGovern, Jim McNerney, Jerry Meeks, Gregory Meng, Grace Moore, Gwen Moulton, Seth Nadler, Jerry Neal, Richard Nolan, Rick Norcross, Donald O'Rourke, Beto Pallone, Frank Panetta, Jimmy Pascrell, Bill Payne, Donald Pelosi, Nancy Perlmutter, Ed Peters, Scott Pingree, Chellie Plaskett, Stacey Pocan, Mark Polis, Jared Price, David Quigley, Mike Raskin, Jamie Rice, Kathleen Richmond, Cedric Rochester, Lisa Blunt Rosen, Jacky Royball-Allard, Lucille Ruiz, Raul Ruppersberger, Dutch Rush, Bobby Ryan, Tim Sablan, Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sanchez, Linda Sarbanes, John Schakowsky, Jan Schiff, Adam Schrader, Kurt Scott, Bobby Scott, David Serrano, Jose Sewell, Terri Shea-Porter, Carol Sires, Albio Slaughter, Louise Smith, Adam Soto, Darren Speier, Jackie Suozzi, Thomas Swalwell, Eric Takano, Mark Thompson, Bennie Thompson, Mike Titus, Dina Tonko, Paul Torres, Norma Tsongas, Niki Veasey, Marc Velazquez, Nydia Visclosky, Peter Walz, Tim Wasserman Schultz, Debbie Welch, Peter Wilson, Frederica Yarmuth, John ###
10.04.2017	SAN ANTONIO — A social security office on the South Side is re-opened for business, seven months after it unexpectedly closed for repairs, congressman Lloyd Doggett said in a press release. Doggett said the social security office located 3438 East Southcross Blvd closed in March due to structural issues impairing "many seniors and individuals with disabilities." "Responding immediately to a constituent inquiry, I began urging the Social Security Administration to get this office operational and made repeated inquiries throughout the year," he said in the statement. "Many Southside seniors rely on this office. Thank you to Toni Moorhouse from the Pecan Valley Neighborhood for her continued advocacy on this issue.” Normal hours for the security office are 9 a.m. -4 p.m. Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday, and 9 a.m. - 12 p.m. Wednesday. Services are available toll free by dialing 1-800-772-1213. People who are dear or hard of hearing can call 1-800-325-0778.
10.02.2017	Congress moved quickly last week to allow victims of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria to write off more of their losses from federal income taxes, passing a bill that President Trump signed just a week after it was introduced. But the deduction that bill expanded could be eliminated entirely under the tax plan Republican House and Senate leaders and Trump unveiled last week. Rep. Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican who chairs the Ways and Means Committee and is a key architect of the tax plan, told the conservative Heritage Foundation last week that getting rid of deductions that only benefit a few people leads to lower rates for the most people. "We’re eliminating the current maze of special interest loopholes that benefit special interests but offer nothing but confusion for working families," Brady said Thursday morning. Later that morning, the House approved a Brady-sponsored bill to expand an existing deduction for uninsured theft and casualty losses so that victims of Harvey, Irma and Maria could write off any losses worth more than $500. Without the change, those victims would face the same limitation faced by any homeowner whose house burns down or is destroyed by a tornado or flood: Only losses that exceed 10% of adjusted gross income would be deductible. “Hundreds of thousands of families have lost everything — even loved ones," Brady said before the bill's passage. "This legislation will help them begin to recover through meaningful, targeted tax relief they need now.” The nine-page tax overhaul framework released by Republicans last Wednesday lacks many details about how to pay for promised tax cuts, but it does say that just two of the itemized deductions in the current tax code would remain: charitable contributions and home mortgage interest. It says nothing about retaining the theft and casualty deduction for uninsured economic losses from events such as fire, flood, hurricane or tornado. Asked specifically whether the deduction would be retained, Brady's office said only that Ways and Means Committee members continue to work on the treatment of specific deductions. "The Republican tax break proposal is one giant contradiction," said Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas. "It takes away disaster relief expanded last week, eliminates the medical expense deduction, which was expanded in their failed Obamacare attack, and claims middle class tax relief, while overwhelmingly showering individual tax benefits to the top 1%." The situation illustrates the difficulty Congress may face in passing comprehensive tax reform because every line on the tax return got there because lawmakers decided it helped serve their constituents, or their political careers, to put it there. If Brady fights to keep the disaster-loss deduction because of its importance to his constituents, other members will want to retain line-items that help their constituents. "I've been through a lot of tax reform efforts; they're never easy," said former Senate majority leader Trent Lott, a Republican from Mississippi who was instrumental in passing a similar expansion of the disaster-loss deduction after Hurricane Katrina in 2005. "People get the deductions and the credits, and when you go for something big, you hear about it." Lott said lawmakers need to "keep their eye on the ball" and focus on overall reform, but he also said he doubted the deduction for disaster losses would be eliminated entirely. "What we saw laid down was skeleton," he said of the framework. "They're going to have to come up with more offsets, they'll wind up keeping some of the deductions and credits." The disaster-tax bill Brady sponsored last week also made it easier for taxpayers to take money out of their retirement accounts without penalty to pay for disaster recovery, and it lifted the existing cap on deductible charitable contributions for gifts to disaster relief agencies. The charity piece of the bill probably won't be affected by tax reform, but it's unclear what Congress plans to do about retirement plans. The framework says incentives for saving for retirement will be continued, but laws will be changed to "simplify these benefits." If Congress does get rid of everything but mortgage interest and charitable contributions, it's possible the expanded deduction Trump signed Friday will benefit no one. That's because some in Congress and Trump's administration have said they are trying to make the tax overhaul retroactive to cover 2017, meaning it would erase a tax cut that was implemented in 2017. As deductions go, the casualty or theft losses is not normally a budget breaker. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimated the "cost" — the amount of tax revenue that would be collected if it were not there — as between $400 million and $500 million a year between 2016 and 2020. According to Internal Revenue Service data, about 90,000 tax filers declared $2.2 billion in losses in 2014. That reduced their taxes by about $400 million. But use of the deduction spikes in years with catastrophic natural disasters. In 2012, the year Superstorm Sandy hit, 160,000 families claimed nearly $5 billion in damages. And after Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma in 2005 — the last year Congress approved a similar expansion of the disaster tax break — the provision was used by 814,000 filers, who wrote off nearly $15 billion in losses.
10.02.2017	Alamo Colleges District - San Antonio College (SAC) is proud to announce it received more than $1.2M to renew the CCAMPIS grant, effective Oct. 1. CCAMPIS, which stands for Child Care Access Means Parents Stay in School, provides about $308,000 per year for four years, totaling $1.2 million. The CCAMPIS grant makes higher education possible for low-income students by subsidizing the cost of high-quality child care. Throughout the 2017-18 academic year, the grant will provide affordable child care for about 50 students currently enrolled at SAC. While the cost to CCAMPIS is about $6,000 per child, per year, eligible SAC students pay only $15-20 per week per child versus the typical $160-$215 per week for this level of care. "This grant is particularly important," said U.S. Representative Lloyd Doggett, 35th District, who attended the announcement. "We know that for young families, other than affordable housing, the second biggest expense is child care." Doggett added that the CCAMPIS grant will not only help SAC students, it will also provide their children a solid educational foundation once they begin going to school. Ellen Marshall, SAC chair of Social Work, Sociology, Early Childhood Studies, and History, said the grant also supports teaching the students parenting skills. "We require them to attend three parenting workshops during the semester and to volunteer in the Early Childhood Center for four hours so they can see how the teachers interact with the children," she said. "We want them to learn about their children to help them have better interaction with them." "I can't say enough how grateful I am for this program," said Michael De La Cerda, a pre-nursing major whose daughter is enrolled at the Early Childhood Center. "It has allowed me to go to college and concentrate on my schooling and my grades. I never felt that my daughter has been in better care. And everybody here treats me like family."
09.28.2017	Edilsa Lopez (Photo by John Anderson) Homeless on the streets of Guatemala, Edilsa Lopez, her mother, and three siblings often slept in abandoned buildings and churches. Exposed to the harsh elements, the vagabond existence was still safer than living with their violent and abusive father. The 12-year-old and her family eventually made their way to the U.S., in search of a better life, but on the way Lopez became separated from her family, left in the desert, and eventually picked up by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. After ICE dumped her at the U.S.-Mexico border, kidnappers snatched the young girl, who would spend the next few months as a victim of human trafficking. Routinely molested and forced into manual labor, Lopez became numb to the abuse but remained resilient. "There were many times I thought I was going to die. But I knew I had to be tough," Lopez told me during an interview in early September near her home off East Riverside Drive. "If you show any weakness, they dispose of you." She found herself alone with one of her captors, who after making unwanted advances, suddenly fell asleep. Lopez knew then it was her chance to escape. She kicked off her shoes and bolted silently from the house, sprinting as far as she could to freedom, not even knowing which city she was in. (Brownsville, she later learned.) The young girl knocked on the door of a random house and was greeted by a woman who clothed and fed her her first meal in days – lasagna and Cheetos, she recalls with a grin: "I was tired, I was traumatized. But I was so grateful that this total stranger showed me compassion." Lopez reunited with her mother in Houston and from there poured her energy into schoolwork, graduating in the top 10% of her high school class, which earned her a spot at UT-Austin. Still feeling like an outsider, Lopez says her life changed when she secured Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), the federal program that allows young undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children the ability to work and study without the threat of deportation. "I didn't feel like I belonged. Then DACA gave me the purpose and value I was missing all my life," she said. She paid her way through college on a DACA work permit, and graduated in 2015 with a double major. Lopez now works as a financial analyst in Downtown Austin. Lopez, like the 800,000 DACA recipients nationwide – or "DREAMers" as they're known – suffered a cruel and heartless blow from the Trump administration on Sept. 5, when Attorney General Jeff Ses­sions – a man once deemed too racist for federal judgeship – announced almost gleefully that the Obama-era protection for DREAMers would end on March 5, 2018, unless a consistently gridlocked Congress can agree to a legislative solution. Likely to prevent looking weak on immigration, Sessions broke the news on the day that Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton had vowed to sue the feds if Trump didn't rescind DACA, a fanatical call opposed in writing by Mayor Steve Adler and other local officials. Sessions' intent affects an estimated 124,000 Texans – the second-largest DACA population behind California – and up to 14,000 eligible recipients in Travis County who have largely ventured to the state from Mexico, according to the Migration Policy Institute. Lopez's journey to the U.S. is one of many stories DREAMers have shared to highlight the struggles and sacrifice made to escape treacherous surroundings for a secure future. But that security has since been stripped away, leaving DACA recipients on the cusp of the unknown. Lopez now suffers from panic attacks and "emotional distress," and faces nightmares about getting deported to Guatemala. "I can't plan my future. I can't plan my career," she said. "I'm exhausted living with this uncertainty." My Home Now In June of 2012, the year that Barack Oba­ma instituted DACA, UT-Austin's Immi­gra­tion Law Clinic was well ahead of the immigration curve, setting up one of the first large-scale workshops to process DACA applications in the country. The two-year renewable protection and work permit allows undocumented immigrants who were brought to the country by their parents before the age of 16; born on or after June 16, 1981; and have lived in the U.S. since 2007 the ability to live, work, and study. It also grants recipients social security cards and eligibility for driver's licenses. The immigration policy, albeit temporary and not a pathway to citizenship, is considered a humane and just avenue for young undocumented children to thrive in the U.S. While the law clinic's work has dispersed to other local community groups since then, it established a lasting model. As of today, DACA and work permits will remain valid until their expiration date, but new DACA applications won't be accepted (absent speedy congressional action). The rush has been on for DACA recipients, whose applications expire between now and March 5, to ensure that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services receives their renewals by Oct. 5. The tight and stressful deadline is exacerbated by a potentially cost-prohibitive renewal price tag ($495) – nearly $2,000 for a family of four. DACAmented residents have at most two years remaining, with some only able to secure the next few months. "After that they become vulnerable to deportation. They lose their work authorization and their ability to be full members of the community," said Denise Gilman, who runs the Immigration Law Clinic. Gilman doesn't necessarily anticipate massive deportation sweeps of Dreamers, but does concede: "You never know with this administration and its high level of cruelty and short-sightedness toward immigrants." Daniela Rojas, a 22-year-old Latin American Studies major at UT, considers DACA an important source of protection, a way to focus on her education rather than the fret of deportation, especially in the wake of local raids. Fleeing Colombia, Rojas' family started anew in Austin when she was 11 years old. "It was a huge relief to lead this kind of normal life, to be able to work and save money for school, to be able to drive without fear of getting stopped and deported. But now, I don't know what's going to happen," said Rojas. Her DACA application will expire in 2019, around the time she expects to graduate. "I worry that if Congress doesn't do anything, I might not be able to work after I graduate, even with a degree." Rojas thinks often about the fate of her 13-year-old sister, who planned to obtain DACA when she turned 16. That door has since been slammed shut for her and thousands of other undocumented youth. "The thought of going back to a country that I don't really remember, that I don't have a life in, really scares me," said Rojas. "It wouldn't make sense to return. Austin is my home now." Xenophobic Lies Against the towering J.J. Pickle Federal Building Downtown the day of Sessions' announcement, a cadre of disappointed DREAMers gathered to recount stories and vow, alongside allies from the Equal Justice Center and Texas Civil Rights Project, to pressure Congress into crafting a workable solution. A determined Vanessa Rodriguez stood before the crowd. "I realized my struggles are crumbling down to nothing ... but I am not going anywhere," she said. "I am going to fight for my future just as much as my parents fought for my life." Rodriguez moved from Puebla, Mexico, to nearby Elgin when she was 6, and is currently enrolled at UT. She aspires to be a labor rights attorney. However, today, her future is murky. The instability is doubly frustrating to her because she says she's gone above and beyond to work hard and prove her worth to society – an unfair expectation, but one that many DREAMers share. "I knew I had to work twice as hard as anyone else in my grade because of my undocumented status," she said, in an interview following the event. "It wasn't enough to be top 10 percent, I had to be top five percent." DREAMers and DACA advocates rally outside the J.J. Pickle Federal Building in September. (Photo by Mary Tuma) “There’s a shortage of high-skilled labor in this country. Any indication that these students are taking jobs away is not a justifiable comment – they are actually filling positions that need to be filled.”– Immigration attorney Natalia Drelichman The desire to prove self-worth is likely in part a result of misleading statements blasting from right-wing media and conservative Republican politicians, eager to smear and distort the reality of immigration largely to maintain white supremacy and pander to racist electoral bases. While announcing DACA's end, Sessions echoed a handful of oft-perpetuated lies, including the claim the program increases crime. Yet a simple glance at the eligibility requirements quickly dispel that myth: To be qualified for DACA, an individual cannot have been convicted of a felony or serious misdemeanors (or three or more other misdemeanors) and "otherwise pose a threat to national security or public safety." They must complete background checks, and have completed high school (or a GED), be currently enrolled in school, or been honorably discharged from the armed forces. In other words, DREAMers are mostly working, educated noncriminals required to be on good behavior. Rodriguez, pointing to the many hurdles hopeful DACA-ers must pass before being accepted, stands "perplexed" at how little most people understand of the program. "We are nurses, we are firefighters, we are teachers – we are out there serving other Americans," she said. Sessions peddled another common mistruth when he derided DREAMers for stealing American jobs. Aside from the fact his claim is based on a shaky and illogical premise (employment is not a zero-sum game), no evidence to bolster it even exists. In fact, a lengthy study released last year by the National Academies of Sciences, Engin­eer­ing, and Medicine found that immigration has "little to no negative effects on overall wages and employment of native-born workers in the longer term." Other studies show DACA has made a positive impact on the U.S. economy: For instance, DREAMers create jobs by starting their own businesses and purchasing cars and homes, contributing to sales tax. The program has been a "major driver of economic growth," according to a 2016 study from the Center for American Progress. CAP estimates that DACA's end will result in a $460 billion loss from the national GDP over the next decade. "It's a pretty standard response from a xenophobic administration," said Natalia Drelichman, a local immigration attorney and director of legal programs at American Gateways, of the erroneous jobs claim. "There's a shortage of high-skilled labor in this country. Any indication that these students are taking jobs away is not a justifiable comment – they are actually filling positions that need to be filled." Drelichman's local nonprofit has been kicked into "overdrive" helping DACA-ers renew applications in the Austin area. Her clients range from McDonald's employees to medical school students, and while some have successfully renewed, others can't find the cash or have fallen behind – now it's become too late. "I've had some really tough conversations lately," said Drelich­man. "The federal government just told my clients, 'You don't matter; the fact that you're a contributing member of society doesn't matter.' They're trying to make them second-class citizens." As part of a coalition of organizations under the Texas Here to Stay umbrella, the legal team has partnered up with local groups like Educa­tion Aus­tin and the Uni­ver­si­ty Leadership Initiative to host DACA informational sessions in the community. With DACA no longer an option, attorneys advise DREAMers to seek other forms of relief if available. Ramped-Up Funding An eerie quiet fell over the typically bustling flea market on the corner of North Lamar and Applegate Drive, just north of Rundberg Lane, in the weeks leading up to Sept. 1. Residents in the area had braced for a ruling on anti-immigrant Senate Bill 4 by lying low and not entering the public arena. When Judge Orlando Garcia temporarily blocked the law in August, said Greg Casar, the area's representative on City Council, the market resumed in full swing. And now, another wave of unease has fallen over the community because of the DACA decision and recent ruling from the 5th Circuit reversing certain parts of Garcia's ruling ("Travis County to Comply With All ICE Detainers After 5th Circuit Ruling," Sept. 26). "This is the moment we're in," noted Casar. "Unpredictable times of celebration mixed in with fear. The community is facing oppression but at the same time showing bravery and organizing." The city has done its job to step in and combat the attacks on local immigrants. And the city has done its job to step in and combat the attacks on local immigrants. On top of the mid-year $200,000 infusion into American Gateways and Catholic Charities of Central Texas to provide legal immigration counsel (passed around the time of Trump's efforts to enforce a travel ban in January), City Council added another $135,000 during budget readings this month for agencies that deal with DACA, deportation defense, asylum, and a wide range of immigration-related services. Adding to that pot, the city recently won a private grant of $100,000 from the New York-based VERA Institute of Justice, which flowed to American Gate­ways. In October, Council plans to consider a resolution authorizing the city's federal lobbyists to support the DREAM Act and oppose the border wall pushed by Trump. "We provided very little for these sorts of services before 2017, but rapidly recognized we need to change that," said Casar. "These attacks from the federal administration and the state are so constant, we knew it was critical to continue increasing our efforts. The DACA decision only highlighted how important it was to ramp it up." Aside from Council's financial assistance, Casar points to nixing the city's longstanding juvenile curfew policy as an avenue to reduce the impact of discriminatory incarceration of minorities, which can lead to potential deportation of DREAMers. "One of the paths ICE takes to rope immigrants into deportation is using the criminal justice system as a path toward removal proceedings," he said. In June, Council ended the daytime school-hours youth curfew but extended the nighttime curfew through Oct. 1. They'll reconsider the issue at their Sept. 28 meeting; Casar says Police Chief Brian Manley has now come around in support of striking the rule, giving him hope that other CMs will follow suit. At Congress' Doorstep The fate of DACA now rests in the hands of Congress, tasked with crafting a plan by March 5. Early talks indicate some Repub­lic­ans would like to trade off codifying or extending DACA with border security or a wall – a concession some Dems aren't willing to accept. "There is an attempt to use DREAMers as a bargaining chip to secure other aspects of the anti-immigrant agenda, like the border wall," U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett of Austin said in a September interview. "I've tried to emphasize DREAMers are non-negotiable." While bills like the BRIDGE Act (which provides a three-year DACA extension) and the ENLIST Act (which would grant residency to the undocumented enlisted in the military) seek to provide partial remedy, Doggett strongly backs the American Hope Act, the most comprehensive and permanent of the bills in the mix. But the most viable legislative solution for pro-immigrant advocates remains the DREAM Act of 2017, a bipartisan measure that provides a pathway to citizenship, of which Doggett is a co-sponsor. And it looks like Dems have the majority of Americans on their side, with 54% in support of Congress creating a pathway to citizenship, according to a recent Politico/Morning Consult poll. Jose Garibay (Photo by John Anderson) "We need to not wait until the very end of the six months to act on this," Doggett stressed. "There will be some issues Repub­licans will need Democratic votes on, so we will need to hold firm so that until this is resolved they won't be getting those votes." Among the legislative obstacles is House Speaker Paul Ryan's stated obstinance in bringing any immigration-related bill to the floor without the support of a Republican caucus majority. Adding to that is the president's volatile unpredictability – just a week after his administration killed DACA, he tweeted a message in support of DREAMers. Eyes are also on whether a duo of suits challenging the DACA decision's constitutionality, one filed by California and the other by 15 states (led by New York and Washington) could ultimately prevail in the interim. Maintaining hope that elected representatives will find a meaningful compromise is 20-year-old Jose Garibay, a St. Edward's University junior. He was 4 when his family came from Mexico to Austin, where he spent the formative years of his life. He hopes to pursue a master's degree in education policy to help low-income students enter college. While the decision to end DACA devastated him and extinguished not only his future plans but those of his high school aged brother, Garibay emphasizes his optimism and willpower above all else. He plans to spend his energy lobbying congressional leaders for a permanent solution. "We need to push for something that not only encompasses us but also protects our parents, who took the ultimate risk to come here so we would have a better life," Garibay told me. "I know many are scared and feeling hopeless right now but it's important to remember we are still human, we deserve justice, and no one has a right to take away our ability to keep fighting."
09.28.2017	WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump and top Republicans rolled out the framework for their long-promised tax cuts Wednesday, offering some details but leaving a lot of tough choices ahead for Congress. Critics immediately said the $5.8 trillion plan could add to America’s $20 trillion debt, potentially crippling domestic health and retirement programs such as Medicare and Social Security. But Republicans, starting with Trump, held out the prospect of a “generational” shift to a streamlined tax code delivering bigger paychecks, more job growth and a stronger economy. “This is a revolutionary change,” Trump said at a tax rally in Indiana. “And the biggest winners will be middle-class workers as jobs start pouring into our country, as companies start competing for American labor and as wages continue to grow.” Trump called it “the largest tax cut in our nation’s history.” The long-standing effort at tax reform, led in the House by Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady, a Republican from The Woodlands, still faces major hurdles to offset trillions of dollars in proposed tax cuts for the wealthy, the middle class and businesses. “Americans have been waiting for years,” Brady said. “They’ve been waiting for too long for Washington to fix our broken tax code.” He added, “This is our year to chart a new course.” The plan comes a day after GOP leaders abandoned their latest effort to dismantle the Affordable Care Act, which would have canceled a multitude of additional health care taxes. The GOP tax overhaul immediately came under fire from top Democratic tax writers, including Lloyd Doggett of San Antonio, an influential member of the Ways and Means Committee. “The superlatives never match the specifics,” Doggett said. “What President Trump and his Republican cohorts say this plan is, it isn’t. The future of this bill depends upon how quickly the truth can catch up with the lie. From what we can already see, it is a blueprint for red ink.” Before Wednesday’s rollout, Brady has said he remains focused on simplifying the tax code by eliminating a multitude of special deductions and credits, including one for state and local taxes worth more than $1.2 billion in Texas alone. But taxpayers will make up the lost savings, he said, with fewer and lower federal tax rates. Under a blueprint developed last year by House Republicans, Brady said, the vast majority of Americans could file their tax returns on a form the size of a postcard. While jettisoning many popular tax breaks, the White House framework would preserve major tax incentives for home mortgage interest and charitable giving, administration officials said. Many others remain up in the air, with Congress left to hash out the details. It also will compress the current seven tax brackets to three or possibly four and will double the standard deduction to $12,000 for individuals and $24,000 for married couples. That, GOP tax writers say, would cut taxes for the middle class and allow more people to file their taxes without the hassle of itemizing their deductions. Republican Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas, who ran for president last year advocating for a single “flat” tax rate and abolishing the IRS, said the White House blueprint contains “numerous positive elements” that conservatives have long supported. In one key concession, the White House proposed limiting the lowest individual tax rate to 12 percent, up from the current 10 percent rate favored by Trump. The next two rates would be set at 25 percent and 35 percent. The top individual rate is now 39.6 percent. Congressional Democrats argued that with the elimination of some additional standard deductions and personal exemptions, tax bills for some moderate-income families could actually go up. But specific income levels for the proposed new tax brackets — a key factor in determining people’s tax bills — will be left for Congress to work out. Another key sticking point in Congress will be the Republican plan to limit the top corporate tax rate to 20 percent, down from 35 percent currently. Trump had favored a 15 percent top rate. Individual small and midsize businesses would be looking at a top rate of 25 percent. White House officials vowed to make it cheaper for U.S. corporations to return overseas profits and write off business expenses, thus spurring investment on the home front. The GOP template also would expand child tax credits, eliminate provisions that put married couples in higher tax brackets and end estate taxes, which Trump called “the death tax.” Democrats took aim at nearly all of those proposals. “They say they don’t want to give the super-rich a tax break, yet they cut the top rate for the wealthiest few, eliminate the tax on big estates and expand a loophole that will line the pockets of Trump himself,” Doggett said. “Yet they create a new zero tax rate on offshore profits for multinationals.” Others warned that the resulting deficits could ultimately end up in cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, education and other vital public services. ‘Tough math ahead’Patriotic Millionaires, a group of wealthy business leaders who disagree with Trump on taxes, issued a sharply critical statement: “What kind of people see the devastation of Harvey, Irma and Maria, watch Houston residents wading through the streets and see Puerto Rico in total darkness and think ‘Wow, millionaires really need a tax cut?’” Amid Democratic criticisms that the GOP tax cuts will mostly benefit the wealthy, White House officials said they are open to a fourth tax bracket above 35 percent to limit tax breaks for the rich. They also said the tax cut proposals will not add to the deficit, though it remains to be seen whether that would be accomplished by offsetting new revenue streams, spending cuts or purely by economic growth. “Yeah, we’ve got some tough math ahead of us, but I’m going to make you the argument that growth is coming if we make this work, and we’re going to make this work,” said Republican Rep. David Schweikert of Arizona. Administration backers said the tax breaks could usher in a new era of prosperity. “With too many hardworking Americans living paycheck to paycheck and small businesses struggling to keep up with foreign competition, it’s clear the status quo has failed,” said American Action Network Executive Director Corry Bliss. “Congress has the opportunity to make things right and deliver a tax code that is simple, fair and lowers rates for working families and small businesses.” Republicans said the framework is being rolled out as a starting point for congressional negotiations to revamp the tax code for the first time since President Ronald Reagan was in office. “For years, we have been talking about the possibility of tax reform,” said Republican Rep. Diane Black of Tennessee, chairman of the House Budget Committee. “Now as the governing majority, we have the opportunity to turn all this talk into action.” Trump argued that the proposed tax cuts are designed to help low-and middle-income workers, rather than the highest-income earners, who benefit the most from tax loopholes that the GOP plan would eliminate. Whether the GOP focus on middle-class tax cuts resonates with some Democrats — as Trump assured Republicans — remains to be seen. “I hope that there are some Democrats who are willing to work with us, because this is what they say they’re for,” said Republican Sen. John Thune of South Dakota. “If they’re really for middle-income tax relief, why wouldn’t they join hands with us?” Brady, one of the “Big Six” congressional and White House tax negotiators, said he hopes to translate the framework into legislation that passes through Congress by the end of the year. “We’re closer than ever to finishing what we started for the American people,” he said. But the immediate challenge will be getting Republicans to unify around an elusive budget resolution, the first step in a complicated legislative dance that would allow them to enact tax cuts with a simple majority in the Senate — that is, without Democratic support.
09.27.2017	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Ways & Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, reacts to the latest Republican tax break announcement. Rep. Doggett said: “The superlatives never match the specifics. What President Trump and his Republican cohorts say this plan is, it isn’t. The future of this bill depends upon how quickly the truth can catch up with the lie. From what we can already see, it is a blueprint for red ink. “Despite repeated claims of ‘no tax cuts for the rich,’ this plan does the opposite by raising the bottom rate and cutting the top rate, eliminating the estate tax, and expanding a loophole to line Trump’s pockets. Like a Trump University degree or a Republican healthcare bill, the gap between what they say it does and what it actually does should be what ends it. While professing concern for companies offshoring profits and jobs, they create huge new incentives to ship even more American jobs abroad and reward those with profits hidden in island tax havens. They say this will help the middle class, while raising taxes on some middle-class and working families. “This make-the-rich-even-richer Big Six plan should be deep sixed. Claiming that tax breaks will magically pay for themselves is like claiming Mexico will pay for his wall. In fact, this means more borrowing from the Chinese and the Saudis, and ultimately cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, education, and other vital public services. Republicans should have learned from their healthcare repeal fiasco that the American people don’t support slashing middle-class and working family investments to lavish tax breaks on those at the top.” ###
09.26.2017	WASHINGTON — President Trump will propose a sweeping rewrite of the federal tax code on Wednesday, outlining a plan to reduce rates for corporations and individuals and eliminate some popular deductions, in a move that will set off a scramble among powerful groups eager to protect their tax breaks. The proposal will call for slashing the corporate tax rate to 20 percent from 35 percent, doubling the standard deduction for individual taxpayers and slightly increasing the bottom tax rate to 12 percent from 10 percent, according to two officials briefed on the details of the blueprint. The framework, which has been agreed upon by Republican leaders in the House and Senate, leaves most of the details to Congress but proposes a reduction in the individual rate to 35 percent from 39.6 percent, while leaving the door open for an unspecified, higher bracket for the wealthiest Americans. The plan would also, for the first time, create a 25 percent tax for “pass through” businesses, which account for the vast majority of business income in the United States and are currently taxed at individual rates. Pulling the tax code levers inevitably creates winners and losers, but the scant details of the plan, including how it will be paid for and which deductions are on the chopping block, make it impossible to determine the distributional effects and whether it would actually help middle-class taxpayers and not the wealthiest Americans. At a dinner with conservative and evangelical leaders on Monday evening at the White House, Mr. Trump spoke extensively about his tax plan and said that referring to “tax reform” as “tax cuts” was a much better way of communicating the effort. Over a meal that ended with apple pie, Mr. Trump also said that repatriation of taxes on corporate profits kept offshore would be part of the plan. He did not describe changes to carve-outs or deductions, according to a person in the room. At one point, Mr. Trump said that getting the corporate rate down was the key to getting the economy to grow. The president said that he had grown tired of listening to foreign leaders, like India’s Narendra Modi, describe a gross domestic product growth rate close to 10 percent, while Mr. Trump had nothing comparable to show, according to the person, who asked for anonymity because it was a private dinner. The White House is trying to navigate a narrow path on an issue that administration officials believe can reboot Mr. Trump’s presidency. It is an attempt to assuage the demand for lower taxes among wealthy party donors without being perceived by Mr. Trump’s working-class base as giving a windfall to the rich. Mr. Trump promised after meeting with lawmakers on Tuesday that “we will cut taxes tremendously for the middle class.” He will make his pivot to overhauling the tax code official on Wednesday during a speech in Indiana where he will unveil details of a plan that he has promised will be the biggest tax cut in history. After the failure of Republicans to repeal the Affordable Care Act, passing tax legislation has become all the more crucial, and it is no accident that the Trump administration has chosen the Hoosier State, a reliably Republican part of the country. It is also the home to Vice President Mike Pence, its former governor, and it has a Democratic senator, Joe Donnelly, whose support Mr. Trump may need. For Republicans who have been scarred by the experience of seeing tax cuts lead to fiscal shortfalls in states such as Kansas, South Carolina and Tennessee, Indiana represents a case study of where tax cuts worked. “Our history of being a state that has reduced the size of government, specifically through Pence tax cuts in 2013, makes us an example of ‘here’s these tax cuts,’ and then seeing economic growth,” said Justin Stevens, the Indiana head of the conservative group Americans for Prosperity. As governor, Mr. Pence signed legislation modestly reducing personal income taxes and taxes on companies. Coinciding with that, the state’s economy grew and unemployment declined. As of last year, Indiana’s gross domestic product ranked 16th in the United States and its unemployment rate last month was 3.5 percent, below the national level of 4.4 percent. Mr. Trump on Wednesday will make the case that this is the recipe for economic success nationally, but some economists in the state are not certain that the local strategy can be replicated on a national scale. Michael J. Hicks, an economics professor at Ball State University, said it was too soon to say if the Pence tax cuts actually stimulated the state economy. “On the right, you’re going to hear that by cutting taxes you’re going to have huge new tax revenues,” Mr. Hicks said. “But there’s no analysis that finds that.” Indiana has also had to find new revenue to fund infrastructure projects and rebuild crumbling roads. This year, the state approved a 10-cents-per-gallon gas tax. Finding money to pay for the Trump administration’s ambitious tax plan will be one of the bigger puzzles. Republicans say they are counting on a surge in economic growth and on the elimination of deductions to make up a fiscal shortfall that tax experts have suggested could amount to trillions of dollars. Last week, members of the Senate Budget Committee agreed on a framework that would add to the federal deficit in order to pave the way for a $1.5 trillion tax cut over the next 10 years. The budget resolution still must pass both houses of Congress before work can begin in earnest on tax legislation, and some Republicans have already expressed reluctance. Assessing the cost of the Republican tax framework will be difficult until more details are made available. Analyses of Mr. Trump’s previous plans and the House Republican blueprint from 2016 were estimated to reduce government revenues by between $3 trillion and $7 trillion over a decade. Mr. Trump is expected to intensify his pitch to get Democrats on board with his tax plan. Mr. Donnelly, who is seen as vulnerable in a state that voted heavily for Mr. Trump, is one of three senators who did not sign a letter from Democrats making demands that the tax plan not benefit the rich or add to the deficit. Mr. Trump will probably call him out directly on Wednesday. During his meeting on Tuesday with Republicans and Democrats from the House Ways and Means Committee, Mr. Trump also made a pitch for bipartisanship. “It is time for both parties to come together and do what is right for the American people,” he said. But garnering support from Democrats will not be easy. “Trump asked for Democrats to jump on the caboose after the tax train has already left the station,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas, who complained that lowering top tax rates and repealing the estate tax would be a boon for the wealthy. “I saw no Democrat ready to jump on board.”
09.26.2017	Latino Collection and Resource Center Opens at Central Library On September 19, the San Antonio Public Library celebrated the grand opening of the Latino Collection and Resource Center at Central Library. Mayor Ron Nirenberg and Rep. Lloyd Doggett, 35th District, spoke to a crowd of more than 200 donors, sponsors, friends and supporters of the library to offer words of congratulations to the San Antonio Public Library and members of the San Antonio Public Library Foundation who have championed the creation of a Latino Collection since 1995. "This expansion of the Collection into a full-service resource center is happening at a very crucial time in our city," Mayor Nirenberg said. "Cultural treasures like the Latino Collection and Resource Center will help San Antonio grow as a diverse, progressive and globally competitive city." The Latino Collection was established in 1996 after a group of residents, including local activist Rosie Castro, petitioned the San Antonio Public Library Board of Trustees for a special collection dedicated to bringing together the voices of Hispanics and Latinos. It was envisioned as a cultural and educational resource which would chronicle and celebrate the literature, heritage and contemporary life of Latinos in the United States. "With the support of our stakeholders, I know our community will embrace the Latino Collection and Resource Center as a way to ensure that we preserve and keep alive and relevant the rich history of our great city's Latino cultural heritage for generations to come," said Ramiro Salazar, Director of the San Antonio Public Library. Tuesday, the Latino Collection was relocated and expanded into the Latino Collection and Resource Center, a 6,000-square-foot space on the first floor of Central Library as part of the Library's ongoing efforts to facilitate access to informational resources and enlightening experiences. Features of the new space include more than 10,000 books and monographs in English and Spanish, a writer's workshop and conference room, lecture and programming space, research and study areas, private study rooms and an art gallery featuring pieces from the personal collection of Drs. Ricardo and Harriett Romo. Programming in the space will feature "pláticas" with local authors, art exhibits, writing workshops and community learning events. More information about the Latino Collection and Resource Center, including a list of upcoming programs, can be found online.
09.23.2017	The federal government Friday told election officials in 21 states, including Texas, that hackers targeted their systems before last year’s presidential election. “There was an attempt to find a vulnerability on our agency’s public-facing website, which contains no voter information, but no vulnerabilities were found, according to DHS,” said Sam Taylor, communications director for the Texas secretary of state’s office. “To date, we have received no information indicating any elections-related systems in Texas have been compromised by bad cyber actors.” The state’s voter registration database was not a target, he added. The notification came roughly a year after U.S. Department of Homeland Security officials first said states were targeted by hacking efforts possibly connected to Russia. The states that told The Associated Press they had been targeted included some key political battlegrounds, such as Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Wisconsin. The AP contacted every state election office to determine which ones had been informed that their election systems had been targeted. While not all responded immediately, the others confirming they had been targets were Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Iowa, Maryland, Minnesota, Oklahoma, Oregon and Washington. It does not mean that sensitive voter data was manipulated or results were changed. Hackers targeting a system without getting inside is similar to a burglar circling a house checking for unlocked doors and windows. Even so, the widespread nature of the attempts and the yearlong lag time in noti›ication from the Homeland Security Department raised concerns among some election officials and lawmakers. For many states, the Friday calls were the first official confirmation of whether their states were on the list — even though state election officials across the country have been calling for months for the federal government to share information about any hacks, as have members of Congress. “It is completely unacceptable that it has taken DHS over a year to inform our office of Russian scanning of our systems, despite our repeated requests for information,” California Secretary of State Alex Padilla, a Democrat, said in a statement. “The practice of withholding critical information from elections officials is a detriment to the security of our elections and our democracy,” he said. U.S. Sen. Mark Warner, of Virginia, the top Democrat on a committee that’s investigating Russian meddling in last year’s election, has been pushing the department for months to reveal the identities of the targeted states. He said states need such information in real time so they can strengthen their cyber defenses. “We have to do better in the future,” he said. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, said, “The Trump administration has largely ignored the far-reaching Russian attack on our democracy. Putting America first and protecting our sovereignty means we should move immediately to prevent further attacks in the 2018 elections by fully funding the Election Assistance Commission, and, as I have called for since November, establishing an independent, nonpartisan inquiry into Russian interference.” Homeland Security Department officials said they recognize that state and local officials should be kept informed about cybersecurity risks to election infrastructure. “We are working with them to refine our processes for sharing this information while protecting the integrity of investigations and the confidentiality of system owners,” the agency said in a statement. The government did not say who was behind the hacking attempts or provide details about what had been sought. But election officials in several states said the attempts were linked to Russia. The targets included voter registration systems but not vote-tallying software. Officials said there were some attempts to compromise networks but most were unsuccessful. Only Illinois reported that hackers had succeeded in breaching its voter systems. Earlier this year, a leaked National Security Agency report detailed that hackers hadobtainedinformationfrom a company that provided software to manage voter registrations in eight states. The May report said hackers sentphishingemailsto122local election of›icials just before the November 2016 election in an attempt to break into their systems. Staff writer Johnathan Silver and The Associated Press contributed to this story.
09.23.2017	The latest iteration of Republican efforts to replace the Affordable Care Act appears at first blush to be a potential boon to Texas by making it eligible for an estimated $34 billion in additional federal health care funds through 2026 if the plan wins approval — more than any other state. But some health care advocates say they are skeptical of the prize. “In the short term, it looks like the impact isn’t terrible” for Texas because of the extra money in the form of block grants, said Stacy Wilson, president of the Children’s Hospital Association of Texas, which represents eight nonprofit children’s hospitals, including Dell Children’s Medical Center of Central Texas. But “we are very concerned that (once the block grants expire after 2026) we are going to see huge, draconian cuts to the Medicaid program,” Wilson said. “We think children, especially disabled children, are going to suffer under this.” In addition, states would have only until 2020 to determine how to use their block grants and set up systems for doing so — a tall order for Texas and others that opted to rely on the federal government instead of establishing their own health insurance marketplaces under the Affordable Care Act. “Under this bill, (Texas) would have to provide the infrastructure,” said Kay Ghahremani, chief executive of the Texas Association of Community Health Plans, a consortium of 11 health plans across the state serving mainly Medicaid patients. “That is a big, new administrative function that the state would have to take on.” The U.S. Senate is expected to vote next week on the bill, sponsored by Republican Sens. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, which would repeal key elements of the Affordable Care Act, former President Barack Obama’s 2010 law that’s known as Obamacare, and dismantle an expansion of Medicaid eligibility that it instigated. Medicaid is the federal program that pays for health care services for low-income families and individuals under a cost-sharing arrangement with states. The Obamacare repeal effort — which comes in the wake of the GOP’s failure to repeal Obamacare two months ago using a different plan — would eliminate key Obamacare features and replace more than $1 trillion in federal funding earmarked for the Medicaid expansion and for insurance subsidies with block grants to the states from 2020 to 2026. Under the formula that the Graham-Cassidy plan would use to determine the size of the block grants, states such as Texas that opted against expanding Medicaid programs would get significantly more money than those that expanded Medicaid. An analysis by the Kaiser Family Foundation found that Texas would receive $34 billion more in federal funds through 2026, followed by Georgia at $10 billion and Tennessee at $7 billion. California, which substantially expanded coverage under Obamacare, would see its federal funding drop by $56 billion, according to the Kaiser study. Meanwhile, the plan would cut federal funding for the traditional Medicaid program by putting a per-person cap on it. Some area health care advocates said the change could hurt Texas in particular because the cap would be locked in based upon the relatively low amount Texas now spends on Medicaid relative to the size of its population, with only small increases for inflation. But U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, said the state “would end up doing very well financially” under the Graham-Cassidy bill, and he said it would “shift a lot of responsibility back to the state in order to come up with plans that would actually serve the interests of Texans.” During a visit Friday to Austin, Cornyn said he isn’t certain if the bill has enough GOP support to win approval. “The idea, though, I think has a lot of merit, and that is to return more of the authority to spend health care dollars and to design health care plans that meet state and regional and local needs, rather than to try to do that on a one-size-fits-all out of Washington, D.C.,” Cornyn said. JoAnn Fleming, executive director of Grassroots America-We the People, a tea party-aligned organization that has the ear of conservative Texas lawmakers, said she has concerns about the legislation but supports it as an “interim step” toward a health care system based more upon free-market principles. “We do believe that it is good that we move toward a more federalist model of block-granting Medicaid to the states,” Fleming said. “Texas decision-makers know Texas better than Washington, D.C., does.” Fleming said Gov. Greg Abbott and other top state leaders should convene a state task force soon to begin preparing for such a change and devise a plan for “how to provide the most service to eligible (Medicaid) recipients at the best price.” A spokesman for Abbott didn’t respond to requests for comment. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, called the bill “a disaster” and said Texas is only in line to get the biggest block grant under it “because it did the least” regarding health care for its citizens to begin with. In addition, he said, Texas would lose a large amount of health care funding in the long term as the bill cuts overall Medicaid funding. Doggett said the state likely would end up rationing “care to the elderly, children and people with disabilities.” Bob Jackson, Texas state director for the AARP, said he’s worried about the kind of plan Texas leaders will come up with if the bill wins approval, because it would allow states to apply for waivers to opt out of many provisions guaranteed under the Affordable Care Act — such as the mandate that pre-existing conditions be covered and the cap on how much higher insurers are allowed charge older people compared with younger people for premiums. “Texas policymakers don’t have a track record of taking care of very vulnerable people,” Jackson said. The bill “could be really good if you’re young and healthy and don’t need health care. (But) if you’re sick and need health care, it could be catastrophic and you could be priced out of the market.” Texas currently has the highest percentage of people without health insurance in the country, with an uninsured rate in 2016 of 16.6 percent, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. American-Statesman staff write Mark Wilson contributed to this story. Contact Bob Sechler at 512-445-3645.
09.22.2017	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Ways & Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, issued the following statement regarding to the Republicans’ latest health care repeal bill. Rep. Doggett said: “All states, including Texas, are big losers under the latest disastrous Republican repeal effort. Over the longer term, Texas is projected to lose $120 billion in federal funding, likely forcing it to further ration care to the elderly, children, and people with disabilities. There is no assurance that Texas, which refused even to set up an ACA enrollment website, would use the temporary influx of slush fund money wisely for health care. “Meanwhile, Texas would likely waive pre-existing condition protections, allow fine print lifetime and annual care limitations, and remove essential health benefits like mental health and maternity services. As a result, many can wave goodbye to affordable, comprehensive coverage. Most every major health advocate – including AARP, American Medical Association, March of Dimes, and the American Cancer Society – opposes this latest bad-faith effort because they know that too many Texans in need of health care will pay more for less.” ###
09.19.2017	On her 25th birthday, Maria Mayela Rocha was finishing her typical work day, cleaning houses and babysitting with her mother in San Antonio, when her uncle called. “Mayela, prende la tele!” he said. She turned on the TV to see President Barack Obama had signed an executive order called “Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals,” or DACA for short. “I just … my heart. It was a feeling that I’d never experienced before,” Rocha said. For Rocha, and hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children, DACA would allow them to obtain a driver’s license, a social security number, and grant them the opportunity to live, work and study here without looming fear of deportation, in the form of two-year work permits. Rocha had graduated from the University of Texas at San Antonio just a few months earlier. “I remember thinking, what am I going to do? Am I gonna continue cleaning houses? Am I gonna continue babysitting?” Rocha said. “Why even go through this hardship if I’m not gonna be able to work legally and use my degree?” DACA changed everything: Within a few months of applying, (a $495 payment to Homeland Security and $500 for her lawyer later) Rocha received her approval letter with a date for her biometrics appointment, where she had her fingerprints taken for security clearance and a background check. “That’s when I told myself, I’m finally somebody. I’m worth something,” Rocha said. “I cried to the lady there. I was like, ‘Miss, es que usted no sabe,’ and I was hugging her, like yes! I’m in the system now!” Her work permit and social security number followed. Finally, nine years after she had completed driver’s ed, she was able to take her driving exam. Rocha, who has been a teacher in San Antonio for four years, left Torreón, Mexico when she was 3 years old. She considers herself American, and is one of 15,000 DACA recipients living in Bexar County. Now, Rocha’s future, like that of the 800,000 DACA recipients in the U.S., 124,000 of whom live in Texas, is uncertain. In September, President Donald Trump announced he’d be rescinding DACA, leaving it up to Congress to come up with a solution to protect ”dreamers” who have relied on the program for five years. For most dreamers, deportation means being exiled to a country they never knew: a national survey estimated most of them arrived to the U.S. when they were 6 and a half years old. —- Michelle Mancha hardly remembers the beginning of her life in Mexico City. The only memory her 6-year-old mind held onto was of her, her older brother and her mother packing up to leave their home, and the sinking realization that her father wouldn’t be joining. “I remember asking my mom, 'When is daddy gonna meet up with us?'” Mancha said. “I didn’t know that she was running from him because he would abuse her physically when he was drinking.” When they reached the Mexican-American border near Piedras Negras, Mexico, they crossed the Rio Grande using car tires to float, since they didn’t know how to swim. Her aunt was waiting for them on the other side. Mancha said that if she had been in her mother’s situation, she would have done the same thing. “Think of somebody judging you for wanting to do something that’s literally the best thing for your kid. As a parent, all you want to do is watch your kid succeed, and keep them safe. In our situation in Mexico, we were not safe,” Mancha said. “I think people need to have open minds, and realize there are situations you don’t know about, or couldn’t even imagine what people are going through.” DACA was created for people like Mancha: children who had no say when they were brought to the U.S. by their parents. When Obama announced DACA in 2012, he said it would give a “degree of relief and hope to talented, driven, patriotic young people.” Photo by Lyanne Guarecuco It wasn’t amnesty, it didn’t guarantee a path to citizenship, or grant immunity. It allowed these children, most of whom were now young adults and had spent the majority of their lives in the U.S., the ability to live, work and study here legally by applying for two-year work permits. DACA was never meant to last — the idea was it would be in place until something better came along. It was a short-term band aid until Congress passed the DREAM Act, a bill that would offer undocumented immigrants the same rights as DACA while allowing them to apply for permanent residency. It gave undocumented immigrant kids a new nickname: “dreamers.” The decades-old DREAM Act, however, remains pending in Congress. Applying for DACA can be tedious and lengthy: applicants have to provide a lot of proof and paperwork, and cover the $495 application cost (renewals cost the same). To be considered for DACA, applicants need to have arrived in the U.S. prior to their sixteenth birthday; be under 31 years old in 2012; have lived in the U.S. for at least five years; have a high school diploma, be enrolled in school, or actively serve or have been honorably discharged from the military; and have not been convicted of a felony or multiple misdemeanors. Despite all these hurdles, registering for DACA is far less laborious (and hopeless) than applying for U.S. citizenship through the traditional system. With remarkably low caps on how many immigrants are allowed in from each country per year (and millions on the waiting list), it often takes applicants a decade to finally gain citizenship. For those without family living in the U.S. or a job willing to sponsor them, it could be a fruitless mission. For many dreamers pre-DACA, their undocumented status hit hard when they reached significant milestones as teenagers, like obtaining a driver’s license, or applying for colleges and financial aid without a social security number. “[DACA] gave me the freedom to be a normal teenager,” Mancha said. “That’s all I really wanted. I knew I wasn’t normal, but just living life day to day and not having to worry about ‘I’m gonna get a speeding ticket,’ or ‘there’s a cop there, I need to get away from him.’ I just don’t think living in fear is a way to live at all.” When friends and classmates began talking about applying for universities, it seemed like yet another closed door to Mancha. Even after years in the Texas public school system, her status would make it difficult, if not impossible, to apply for and afford higher education, and to have a career. “I was a good student, and then it was discouraging to know, what’s the point of working so hard in high school and college, if I’m not going to be able to actually work in the degree that I got?” said Mancha, who is an aspiring psychologist. Mancha was a high school junior when DACA was set in motion. Some time after the news had sunk in, Mancha’s English teacher asked her students to pick a word that best described them. “I chose the word ‘free,’” Mancha said, “because whenever [Obama] came out with [DACA], I felt like I could finally live my life. Before that, I was living in fear. Now, I’m scared that I’m going to have to live like that again.” —- Seven Flores, a DACA recipient and teacher from Laredo, Texas, wasn’t surprised when he heard that DACA was ending. “I had already prepared myself for it. I knew since November that this was very, very likely to happen, regardless of what Trump said, because I knew it wasn’t just about Trump — it was other people who wanted it to end, too,” said Flores, who currently lives in San Antonio. After hinting for months during his presidential campaign that he would do away with DACA, Trump seemed to have backed off once he was in the Oval Office. In January, he told recipients they “shouldn’t be very worried,” and he promised to look at “the whole immigration situation” with “a great heart.” But, like several promises out of the White House since Trump’s election, his stance on DACA wavered. In February, Trump said that some DACA recipients are “gang members, and they’re drug dealers too.” From then on, he played at being torn about how he would proceed with DACA. Photo by Lyanne Guarecuco On September 5, the day his decision was announced, Trump avoided cameras and reporters, opting instead to shoot out a cryptic tweet before the announcement: “Congress, get ready to do your job - DACA!” It was Attorney General Jeff Sessions who let the country know DACA was being rolled back. A written statement from Trump ensued, followed by another tweet: “Congress now has 6 months to legalize DACA (something the Obama Administration was unable to do.) If they can’t, I will revisit the issue!” Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton helped expedite Trump’s decision. In a letter written by Paxton and signed by nine other attorneys general and the governor of Idaho, Paxton warned Trump if DACA was not terminated by September 5, he would be facing a lawsuit. Sessions hinted at the pressure, saying DACA was reviewed “in light of imminent litigation.” “We cannot admit everyone who would like to come here,” Sessions said. “It’s just that simple.” —- Jessica Azua joined over a hundred protesters on the steps of the federal courthouse in downtown San Antonio the day DACA was rescinded. Azua came to the U.S. from Tampico, Mexico when she was 14 years old — now, she works for the Texas Organizing Project, a nonprofit organization that helps low-income and working class Texas families. “As dreamers, this is our home,” Azua said. “We have been here our entire lives, and we’re happy to contribute. I don’t know why they don’t see us as who we are. We live in the same neighborhoods, go to the same churches.” As it turned out, rescinding DACA only welcomed new litigation: 15 states filed a lawsuit against Trump, asking a federal court to throw out his memo rescinding DACA and to block information gathered through DACA from being used for immigration enforcement. With 78 percent of DACA recipients being of Mexican descent, the states argue that Trump’s decision to end DACA was “to punish and disparage people with Mexican roots,” whether that was to appease his base or because of personally-held beliefs. San Antonio leaders also condemned the decision and stood up for DACA recipients. San Antonio City Councilwoman Shirley Gonzales urged constituents to pressure members of Congress to pass legislation to protect dreamers, and City Council passed a legal aid fund for low-income, undocumented immigrants. State Representative Diego Bernal, who helped break up a heated argument over immigration deportation on the Texas House of Representatives floor in May, said he was angry and “heartbroken” when he first heard the news. But it didn’t slow him down. “It’s okay to feel like that, but you just can’t relent. You have to be persistent. There’s no victory in history that came overnight, and we have to have stamina, and ultimately, we will win,” he said. San Antonio’s dreamers are banking on that stamina. “We’re being played with back and forth. They don’t know how it affects us emotionally, mentally, physically. We’re drained,” Rocha said. “It’s hard to be in front of students and having to think about our future, and telling yourself ‘I’m not gonna be here for their graduation. I’m not gonna be here when they move on to middle school’ — because this man wants me out, pretty much.” It’s too soon to tell what Congress, or Trump, will ultimately decide for dreamers. Two days after his announcement, Trump tweeted: “For all of those (DACA) that are concerned about your status during the 6 month period, you have nothing to worry about - no action!” A week later, Trump dined with U.S. House and Senate Democratic leaders Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer, where they discussed DACA. The following morning, Trump tweeted, “No deal was made last night on DACA. Massive border security would have to be agreed to in exchange for consent. Would be subject to vote.” Seventeen minutes later, he tweeted: “Does anybody really want to throw out good, educated and accomplished young people who have jobs, some serving the military? Really!.....” “They didn’t have a deal; they agreed to agree, details to be worked out later, that they would exclude the wall funding from any agreement they would reach concerning the dreamers,” said Texas Congressman Lloyd Doggett, who’s been at the frontlines of DACA’s defense. ”What we need is to let democracy work, and have the majority of members of the House determine this, not just the majority of the Republican Caucus.” Regardless of how these next few months play out for dreamers, they aren’t giving up without a fight. Rocha said the outpouring of support has been great, but they need more than sympathy. “This is when you need to make action and bombard these [lawmakers’] landlines, emails,” she said. “Take action and let them know how you feel.”
09.15.2017	U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett speaks at a town hall on health care at the First United Methodist Church on July 16. TAMIR KALIFA / AMERICAN-STATESMAN U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, the top Democrat on the Ways & Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, was joined by more than 30 colleagues Thursday in introducing legislation to provide tax relief to working families adversely affected by Hurricanes Harvey and Irma. This bill would ensure that qualifying individuals and families in Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma federal disaster areas receive the maximum assistance from the earned income tax credit and child tax credit by giving them the option of using their prior year, pre-hurricane income to compute the credits that they would otherwise not receive for time they were sidelined from their jobs due to the storms. “I’m concerned that people who need the help the most, especially the working poor, get assistance,” Doggett said. “This could mean several thousand dollars for workers whose jobs were destroyed by the hurricane. Ronald Reagan referred to the earned income tax credit as the most effective anti-poverty program.” Doggett said that similar tax relief was provided after Hurricanes Katrina, Wilma and Rita, but not after Superstorm Sandy. So far, Doggett’s co-sponsors are all Democrats, including all the Democrats in the Texas delegation, but he said he is hopeful of drawing bipartisan support and that he had talked about the legislation with U.S. Rep. Kevin Brady, the Republican from The Woodlands who chairs the House Ways and Means Committee, and he seemed open to the bill.
09.15.2017	WASHINGTON – After a pair of massive hurricanes battered Texas and Florida, members of Congress from those states are facing an uncomfortable question: Does relief for one state come at the cost of the other? The fear among many in Washington is that the double-whammy of the two hurricanes — Harvey in Texas and Irma in Florida — could pull away federal resources needed in both states. One of the most important Texans in the middle of these negotiations is U.S. Rep. Kay Granger, a Fort Worth Republican and senior member of the House Appropriations Committee. She told the Tribune that she is “absolutely” concerned about Congress addressing dual disasters. “How we pay for them, what we do is still up in the air because it’s an enormous amount of money,” Granger said. “We don’t even know how much.” Late last week, Congress passed — and President Donald Trump signed into law — a massive deal that included a short-term funding package for Houston and other Harvey-affected regions. But 90 members of the U.S. House — including four Texas Republicans — voted against the bill because it was married to a hike in the debt limit. That measure was widely viewed as just a start. “That was a down payment,” Granger said. “It was really to say, 'We’re watching, and we care.'” Texas Gov. Greg Abbott said Thursday that leaders in Washington have assured him that Texas can expect as many as three more rounds of Harvey aid from Congress before the end of the year. "They all are very clear that there will be multiple supplemental budgets that will be passed to pay for rebuilding Texas as well as rebuilding other disaster areas," Abbott told reporters after receiving a Harvey recovery briefing in Austin. "We may have another supplemental budget as soon as the end of this month. There is also expected to be a supplemental budget in the October-November timeframe. Maybe another one by the end of the year." (Asked last week, as Irma was bearing down on Florida's coast, if he was concerned that a second hurricane would hinder post-Harvey efforts, Abbott said his only concerns were for the country and the safety of those in the path of Irma.) Concerns over how much of those disaster funds will go to Texas vs. Florida are bipartisan and extends to both states. Even so, sources from both delegations and in both parties stressed: Nobody wants this to turn into a competition. “We have to make sure there is enough for both of us,” said U.S. Rep. Lois Frankel, a Palm Beach Democrat. U.S. Rep. Kathy Castor is another worried Florida Democrat, but her concerns extend beyond the two states splitting resources. She worries about politics. “In this Congress? I am [concerned] because there is a split in the Republican Party over whether to support emergency aid or not,” she said. U.S. Rep. Bill Flores, a Bryan-based Republican, brushed off that sentiment, saying he “wouldn’t put much stock” into Castor’s concerns. “I think Congress is going to find a way to deal with the challenges that each [of the storms] bring,” he said. “I’m not worried about it.” Congress' recovery efforts could go beyond directly doling out cash. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, is a senior member of the tax-writing U.S. House Ways and Means Committee. He recently proposed legislation that would allow Americans put out of work by either hurricane to use their 2016 salaries to apply for tax credits — a move that would allow many to qualify for a larger credit than if they filed based on reduced income from 2017. The chairman of Doggett's committee, U.S. Rep. Kevin Brady of the Woodlands, has also floated ideas to change tax policy to help those with property that was in the storms' paths. In recent days, Doggett secured support for his bill from various Democrats in Congress. That support includes unanimous backing from every Texas and Florida Democrat — 22 members from the two states in all. Doggett’s effort illustrates the sheer legislative might the two delegations could bring to both states' recovery efforts if the focus is on cohesion rather than taking adversarial stances. Texas and Florida are the second- and third-most-populous states in the union, respectively, and their combined delegations comprise one-seventh of the U.S. House. While not every member from the two delegations is expected to back future aid packages, they have an enormous base to begin building support. “I think we’re gonna all be in it together,” said Frankel, the Florida Democrat. “We have two very large delegations. That’s a pretty good chunk.” Patrick Svitek contributed to this report.
09.14.2017	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Ways & Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, was joined by more than 30 colleagues in introducing legislation to provide tax relief to working families impacted by Hurricanes Harvey and Irma. Rep. Doggett said: “Tax relief for working families is an important component of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma relief efforts. This bill represents a modest measure to help those who have already suffered a natural disaster from also incurring an economic disaster. “Each year the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) and Child Tax Credit (CTC) help lift millions of the working poor out of poverty. In many communities, the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program begins assisting workers in January in filing for this refundable tax credit. Just as volunteers have been so vital recently in rescuing and assisting victims, future VITA volunteers will be essential in providing assistance in securing the benefits of this legislation. “The hurricanes have interrupted jobs and wages for many, particularly in service industries. Reduced earnings this year caused by the disaster would otherwise lower assistance to hard-working families when it is needed the most. We cannot allow devastation to extend further into the pocketbooks of already struggling communities.” This bill would ensure qualifying individuals and families in Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma federal disaster areas receive the maximum assistance from the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) and Child Tax Credit (CTC) by giving them the option of using their prior year, pre-hurricane income to compute the credits. In the wake of Hurricanes Katrina, Wilma, and Rita, similar tax relief was provided, but it was not offered after Superstorm Sandy. An example of how an average family would be affected by this bill is described in the hypothetical situation below: Mary is a single mother to 2 kids and works as a cashier at a local restaurant. She earns $15,000 a year and received $5,572 from the Earned Income Tax Credit and $1,800 from the Child Tax Credit in 2016. Following Hurricane Harvey or Irma, Mary’s restaurant was destroyed and she was unemployed for the rest of 2017. Mary’s 2017 income was reduced to $10,000 a year and she would qualify for $4,010 from the Earned Income Tax Credit and $1,050 from the Child Tax Credit. Mary’s total tax credit benefit was reduced by $2,312 in 2017. Under this bill, Mary could use her 2016 income to maximize her tax credit benefit and receive the amount she anticipated before the hurricane. ###
09.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), called on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to provide information on their outcomes-based payment approach for Novartis’ new chimeric antigen receptor T-cell (CAR-T) treatment, known as Kymriah. Rep. Doggett said: "As Big Pharma continues to put price gouging before patient access, companies will point more and more proudly at their pricing agreements with public and private payers. But taxpayers deserve to know more about how these agreements will work – whether they will actually save the government money, defray these massive costs, and ensure that they can access life-saving medications. This transparency is especially important for therapies like CAR-T, which the public invested millions in developing. We cannot bank on savings without knowing the terms." You may find a copy of the letter sent to CMS below. September 13, 2017 Seema Verma Administrator Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Department of Health and Human Services Hubert H. Humphrey Building, Room 445-G 200 Independence Avenue SW Washington, DC 20201 Re: Outcomes-Based Payment Contract for Kymriah Dear Administrator Verma, We write in regard to Novartis’ new chimeric antigen receptor T-cell (CAR-T) treatment, known as Kymriah. As members strongly concerned with both rising prescription drug prices and the need to protect taxpayer access to therapies developed with public funding, we are watching closely the discussion around pricing for this treatment. Novartis announced that it is collaborating with the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) on an outcomes-based payment approach, which may help defray the impact of the $475,000 price of this medication. Reports indicate that Novartis and CMS have reached an agreement to only reimburse for Kymriah if patients respond by the end of the first month of treatment. However, we are seeking additional information about this approach and the process by which it was developed. We recognize that Kymriah is a promising treatment that may benefit cancer patients. However, an unaffordable drug is 100 percent ineffective. Already, 42 percent of insured cancer patients found their anticancer drugs represented a significant burden on their budget, according to a 2013 study. Earlier this year, a study found that more than one in four nonelderly cancer patients were not following their prescribed drug regimens because of high costs. This burden is only growing as cancer drug prices continue to soar and is exponentially more devastating for uninsured patients. The issue of pricing is all the more critical because American taxpayers spent more than an estimated $200 million to develop the basic and translational science behind the CAR-T treatment. While Novartis purchased the exclusive global rights and contributed some additional resources, the American taxpayers’ investment in CAR-T must be acknowledged and reflected in the price. Novartis also benefitted from the 50 percent orphan drug tax credit for clinical trials, which helped to offset the cost of approval and development. Dr. Carl June, who led the development of the CAR-T treatment, said that producing engineered T-cells costs around $20,000 per patient, and could get cheaper as the procedure is scaled up. We urge CMS to ensure that patients can access Kymriah and federal and state governments can afford to provide it to beneficiaries of Medicare, Medicaid, and other public programs. We also ask for your response to these questions on how you worked to develop an outcomes-based payment methodology for Kymriah: How many Medicaid and Medicare beneficiaries do you expect will be eligible to take Kymriah next year, in five years, and in 10 years? Has Novartis provided CMS with any estimates of future patient population size? If so, please provide those estimates. How was the one-month response period established? Were oncologists within or outside of CMS consulted on this decision? Will the federal government pay the full price ($475,000) if a patient relapses following that period? What is the agreed-upon definition of success for the one-month outcome? What criteria will be evaluated in determining success? Who will be responsible for assessing these criteria? Did Novartis propose these criteria? How does CMS plan to track whether outcomes-based pricing arrangements lower prices for taxpayers and patients? Will CMS track how many people ended up not being charged and how many people ended up paying for this therapy, by month or by quarter? What are the metrics of success that will be used to determine whether this program will continue or be modified? How will the patient data be collected by CMS for purposes of determining reimbursement? What resources will CMS be required to devote to determining patient outcomes? Will this outcomes-based payment arrangement be ready to implement as soon as Kymriah reaches the market? If not, when does CMS anticipate its onset? What mechanism will CMS use to implement this reimbursement arrangement? Does CMS anticipate that this arrangement will be established primarily through Medicaid or Medicare? If Medicaid, how will CMS enact these outcomes-based payments across different states and managed care plans? Will Novartis be paid at the outset and then refund the money if the outcome is not determined successful, or will Novartis only be paid after the drug’s success is proved? Does CMS understand Novartis' profit margin on Kymriah, which could be significant if the production costs estimated by Dr. June are accurate? If not, how did CMS determine a fair price for taxpayers? Did CMS ask Novartis how the company accounted for the fact that American taxpayers invested $200 million into the basic science behind CAR-T when pricing the drug? Which CMS political appointees were involved in working on this arrangement? Were any CMS political appointees who worked on the arrangement previously employed by the pharmaceutical industry? Were any specifically employed by Novartis? Does Novartis plan to charge US taxpayers the same amount as the company charges citizens of other countries? Did CMS ask Novartis about its pricing plans during discussions about the outcomes-based payment approach? Is CMS willing to consider the use of royalty free rights on the various CAR-T patents to enable more supply and lower prices? We look forward to the opportunity to learn more about how CMS established this outcomes-based payment agreement and how it will be enacted. We look forward to your reply and your continued engagement as the conversation around outcomes-based pricing moves forward. Sincerely, Lloyd Doggett Mark Pocan Carol Shea-Porter Jan Schakowsky Elijah Cummings Jamie Raskin Peter A. DeFazio Keith Ellison Peter Welch
09.13.2017	The U.S. Supreme Court has dealt a serious setback to those hoping Texas would see new congressional and House district maps ahead of the 2018 elections. In separate orders issued Tuesday, the high court blocked two lower court rulings that invalidated parts of those maps where lawmakers were found to have discriminated against voters of color. The justices’ 5-4 decisions stay the rulings — which would have required new maps — as they take up an appeal from Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton. Justices Ginsburg, Breyer, Sotomayor and Kagan dissented from the majority opinion. The development could upend efforts to get a new map in place ahead of the 2018 elections. After years of legal wrangling, Texans and the minority rights groups suing over the maps were finally set to hash out new maps in court last week, but those hearings were canceled as the Supreme Court asked for responses from the minority rights groups to the state’s emergency request for the high court to intervene. The state argued in a legal brief that if the Supreme Court allowed the redrawing of the state’s proposed maps to move forward ahead of the election, the court risked throwing “the Texas election deadlines into chaos for the second time this decade.” Election administrators have said they need clarity on district boundaries by October to meet timelines to prepare and send out voter registration certificates and avoid electoral delays. Minority rights groups suing the state rebutted those claims, arguing that “the right to legal districts prevails” when choosing between delaying electoral deadlines and addressing “voters’ ongoing harm” under the current maps. In siding with the state, the high court made it more likely that Texas will use its current maps in the upcoming elections. The high court could also choose to delay the March primary elections. Its decision is likely months away. “I have always maintained that the Supreme Court would have the final say on local congressional district lines, and tonight the Court just said it,” U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-San Antonio) said in a statement. “Now there is certainty that CD-35, which I have been fortunate to represent for over 4 ½ years, will remain precisely the same for the next election. Filing for that election begins in only two months. I will maintain my active involvement in San Antonio, Austin, San Marcos, Lockhart and the other communities along I-35.” Doggett will hold his seventh town hall this year on Saturday at San Antonio College with State Sen. José Menéndez (D-San Antonio), just prior to joining the annual Diez y Seis parade through Westside San Antonio. “The following Saturday I will hold an eighth town hall on the Eastside at the Claude Black Community Center with Councilmember Cruz Shaw (D2),” Doggett added. “In between I will be listening to neighbors and participating in a number of activities throughout the area. Together, we will overcome the mean-spirited, narrow-minded Trump agenda.” Tuesday’s orders are only the latest developments in an incredibly complicated six-year legal fight over the state’s political lines. The state’s current maps — adopted by the Legislature after judges in 2012 tweaked boundaries drawn following the 2010 U.S. census — have been used during the past three election cycles. A three-judge panel in San Antonio ruled last month that the state’s congressional and state House maps needed to be redrawn to address voting rights violations. Specifically, the court found that the districts drawn by Texas lawmakers were tainted by discrimination against voters of color. The congressional districts in question are CD-27 in Nueces County, where Hispanic voters were “intentionally deprived of their opportunity to elect a candidate of their choice,” and CD-35 in Central Texas, which was deemed illegally drawn because lawmakers used race as the predominant factor in deciding its boundaries. On the state House side, the court flagged nine districts in four counties — Dallas, Nueces, Bell and Tarrant — in which lawmakers diluted the strength of voters of color. In some instances, the court pointed out, they rejiggered lines to “to ensure Anglo control” of legislative districts. Adjusting boundaries in those districts could lead to a wider reconfiguration of the map because neighboring districts could also be affected. With the 2018 elections looming, the Texas Attorney General’s Office quickly appealed in an effort to keep existing political boundaries intact. State attorneys wrote that the lower court was “intent on having its own judicial maps govern” the elections and had “waited too long” to put the case — let alone possible new maps — before the Supreme Court for review in an orderly manner. The court’s brief Tuesday orders offered no clear indication on whether it agreed with those claims.
09.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), issued the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court issued a ruling blocking a lower court’s decision on Texas Congressional maps. Rep. Doggett said: “I have always maintained that the Supreme Court would have the final say on local congressional district lines, and tonight the Court just said it. Now there is certainty that CD-35, which I have been fortunate to represent for over 4 ½ years, will remain precisely the same for the next election. Filing for that election begins in only two months. I will maintain my active involvement in San Antonio, Austin, San Marcos, Lockhart and the other communities along I-35. I will hold my 7th town hall this year on Saturday at San Antonio College with State Senator José Menéndez, just prior to joining our annual Diez y Seis parade through the Westside. And the following Saturday I will hold an 8th town hall on the Eastside at the Claude Black Community Center with Councilmember Cruz Shaw. In between I will be listening to neighbors and participating in a number of activities throughout the area. Together, we will overcome the mean-spirited, narrow-minded Trump agenda.” ###
09.12.2017	USP Beaumont is a high-security federal penitentiary with an adjacent minimum security satellite camp. The facility is part of the Beaumont Federal Correctional Complex. Image by Federal Bureau of Prisons Amid unverified reports of dangerous water shortages and overflowing sewage at Beaumont prisons after Hurricane Harvey, a Texas congressman is seeking answers from the federal government. “Due to several reports of alarming conditions at the Beaumont facility, I have inquired with the Federal Bureau of Prisons to express my concern and obtain clarification about what actions are being undertaken to protect the wellbeing of prisoners and staff and to restore the facility to pre-disaster conditions,” U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, said in a news release issued by Grassroots Leadership, a prisoners’ rights group. There are three federal and three state prisons in Beaumont, a Southeast Texas city that flooded in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey and lost its water supply for about a week. Voluntary and mandatory evacuations were ordered in parts of the city and its surrounding areas, but prisoners stayed put. In the days of the water shortage, horror stories from prisoners began to detail overflowing toilets, people defecating in bags, water leaks in buildings and shortages of food and water. The reports are unverified, and prison officials have said conditions remained safe at the prisons. The Federal Bureau of Prisons said in a statement last week that there was some flooding at its Beaumont prison complex but not where inmates were housed. The bureau also reported intermittent power outages for a day, but emphasized that the complex was able to run on its own reserve water and had “ample” bottled water and food for inmates and staff. The Texas Department of Criminal Justice, which runs three state prisons in the city, brought in tanker trucks of water, 270,000 bottles of water and portable toilets during the water shortage, said spokesman Jason Clark. He added that none of the state prisons in Beaumont flooded, which is the factor used in determining evacuation orders. But advocacy groups tend to believe inmates over prison officials. Grassroots Leadership organizer Jorge Renaud said it’s better to “default on the side of the vulnerable populations.” “When things rise of the level of someone actually being woken up to say something about a condition ... and is willing to go on the record, it’s usually indicative of quite a few more inside who are actually experiencing the same stuff,” Renaud said. The Texas Civil Rights Project is going into the prisons this week to interview prisoners, document their stories and observe firsthand what at least part of the facilities look like after the storm, said Zenén Pérez, the group's spokesman. Although the Beaumont units kept their inmates during the storm, five state prisons south of Houston were evacuated. Nearly 6,000 inmates from units near the flooding-prone Brazos River were moved to other prison facilities around the state and more than 150 Beaumont parolees were moved into one of the prisons in the same city, Clark said. Two of the evacuated prisons have been repopulated, but about 4,500 inmates still remain sheltered in gyms and open areas of other prisons.
09.11.2017	When Hurricane Harvey struck, it brought the worst flooding in recent memory; but more importantly, it brought out what is best about Texas. We saw not just first responders, but also neighbors putting their community first, working to save their neighbors. The worst of times brings out the best in people. As we now recall the anniversary of 9/11, we also recall how our country rises to meet great challenges. At 9:51 a.m. on Sept. 11, 2001, I was working in my Washington office when the fire alarm sounded and the Capitol police instructed us to evacuate the building. My staff and I joined the orderly departure and proceeded to my nearby D.C. residence. Once the roads and the sidewalks emptied, the usually frantic pace of Washington was replaced with a somber, quiet city. Only the occasional siren, the roar of jet fighters, and whirling helicopter blades punctured the silence. The U.S. Capitol, federal buildings, landmarks, and the museums were all cordoned off. Some were blocked with flares, some with simple orange cones, others with more substantial barriers or squad cars positioned to let no vehicle pass. At the Tidal Basin, I was struck by the sight of the Pentagon’s gray smoke wafting up from behind the white marble Jefferson Memorial. On its walls, Jefferson’s timeless words are inscribed: “I have sworn upon the altar of God eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over the mind of man.” That evening I joined my fellow Members of Congress at the same spot on the Capitol steps where Abraham Lincoln was sworn in as our President during an earlier time of trouble, and we pledged to work together to resolve this crisis. We lent our presence in support of uniting our Nation in a time of tribulation and our voices in an impromptu rendition of “God Bless America.” Now, when it feels as though our country’s leaders are at constant war with one another, we must remember that war is hardly the answer, and that our strength derives from our unity. There is so much more that binds us than divides us. As we mark this anniversary of the 9/11 attacks, while we are reminded of its horrors, what helps sustain us is the memory of its heroes, the first responders and others who put service ahead of self. We are reminded of the continuing sacrifice those in uniform make every day. We must remain vigilant in confronting the ongoing threats we face, but we must also preserve those traits that define us as a Nation – equality, freedom, and the opportunity for every person, regardless of their race, gender, ethnicity, to fulfill their own American dream. Whether it is countering Russian interference in our democracy, combatting the brutality of ISIS, or averting nuclear threats from North Korea, we need to continue working with our allies to ensure the safety of our families. On this anniversary, we honor those who paid the ultimate sacrifice, those who struggle to this day, and those who stepped up in unmeasurable ways. We thank those who have shown the same commitment in the wake of a powerful hurricane. We must work together and preserve the blessings of liberty that our Founding Fathers enshrined in our Constitution. As one Nation, stronger together, we can do more to strengthen our security, health, and freedom.
09.10.2017	WASHINGTON — Emboldened by Republican control of the White House and both houses of Congress, President Donald Trump had hoped to replace Obamacare and overhaul the entire tax code by the end of the year. With the health care repeal effort in shambles, the administration’s hopes now turn to tax reform, where a prominent Texan, Kevin Brady, is taking center stage. Standing outside former President Ronald Reagan’s ranch in California last month, Brady declared that “2017 is the year we make history.” But with a Trump presidency increasingly embroiled in battles with the Congress, the media and even itself, some analysts have their doubts. Facing political turbulence in Congress wrought by the GOP setback on Obamacare, and the national furor over Trump’s handling of the white supremacist clash in Charlottesville, Virginia, a number of prominent Republicans are scaling back their ambition. Among them are former House Speaker Newt Gingrich and New York U.S. Rep. Peter King, who tweeted recently that “the GOP must go first with tax cuts and not get bogged down in tax reform.” Brady, one of the six top policymakers in Washington responsible for pushing the GOP tax overhaul, says he is not throwing in the towel. “I believe we can do it, and that’s what we’re working on right now,” The Woodlands’ Brady said in an interview. In an effort to jump-start the process, Trump delivered a speech on Aug. 30 heavy on populist, “pro-American” declarations, promising a simplified plan of lower tax rates for everyone, the elimination of special interest loopholes and a heavy dose of corporate tax cuts. Despite its surface appeal, the plan won’t be an easy sell in Congress, where Democrats are decrying the proposed tax cuts as a massive giveaway to the rich, who would reap the lion’s share of lower rates. Getting rid of loopholes also is easier said than done. Altogether, a complicated smorgasbord of federal tax deductions and credits is estimated to have cost the government more than $1.5 trillion in lost revenue this year, a sum that would go a long way toward reducing overall tax rates — if only those lobbyist-written tax loopholes could be drastically reduced or eliminated. Brady and House Speaker Paul Ryan traveled around the country in August to build support for their plan, selling it as a linchpin for economic growth and a boon to middle- and lower-income Americans. “There is no perfect way to tax, but there are proven ways to grow jobs and paychecks,” said Brady, who chairs the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee. “That’s what we’re trying to stuff into this tax reform plan.” His committee’s website trumpets an analysis by the conservative Tax Foundation estimating that the gains in after-tax income for a median-income household in Texas would be $4,913. It also promises 140,374 more jobs in Texas. Filing tax returns would be so simple, Brady says, the average taxpayer could do it on a postcard. But it’s been more than a year since Brady rolled out the GOP’s “Better Way” tax reform blueprint, and there’s still no bill. He hasn’t set a timetable for a written draft, other than to promise to get a bill on the president’s desk by the end of the year. Given the upcoming congressional battles over raising the nation’s debt limit and passing spending bills to keep the government open past Sept. 30, some observers see little cause for Brady’s optimism. Appropriating emergency funds for hurricane relief efforts will only make the tax bill’s uphill climb steeper. “I don’t think it’s very likely,” said San Antonio Democrat Lloyd Doggett, the top Democrat on Ways and Means. “I certainly think they’re making every effort, but the tax bill is tied to all the distractions.” The distractions include Trump’s recent attacks on top Senate Republicans, including Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, whom he has blamed for the Obamacare debacle in July. The president didn’t make the task any easier in a recent campaign rally in Phoenix, when he threatened a government shutdown if Congress doesn’t pony up the money to fund a border wall. Republican leaders in Congress have all but sworn off a government shutdown — especially in the wake of the massive Gulf storm Harvey. But even the threat of a shutdown could occupy the congressional agenda throughout the month of September, and possibly into October, leaving the tax reform agenda to the holiday season, traditionally a period where major legislation languishes. Unified on taxes On tax reform, however, Brady maintains that Republicans are united. “My experience with the president and with (Majority) Leader McConnell on tax reform is that they’re very much on the same page,” he said. That unity, however, has come at a price. Brady was forced to drop a plan to slap a 20 percent “border adjustment” tax on imports, a measure that sharply divided Republicans and the business community. That concession meant the loss of some $1 trillion in projected revenue meant to help offset the proposed tax cuts. He has yet to propose an alternative funding mechanism, though he suggests that some of the needed revenue is hidden in a labyrinth of the U.S. tax code. “We’re scrubbing the tax code to identify those provisions that don’t create growth or don’t make us more competitive,” he said. Significant procedural hurdles remain as well. To get around a likely Democratic filibuster in the Senate — which requires 60 votes — Republicans will need to rely on a special budget “reconciliation” process that allows for a simple majority to pass a tax package. But there are limits. The reconciliation rule means that any Republican tax cuts would require offsetting revenues within a 10-year budget window, making them “budget neutral” — meaning they couldn’t increase the deficit. Most analysts say that will limit how far Republicans can go to rewrite the tax code, cut taxes or make any changes permanent. A more immediate problem facing Brady is that the reconciliation process first requires that Congress pass a budget resolution for 2018, agreement on which has so far has eluded Republicans. The main sticking point? Top-line spending limits that some moderates think go too far and conservative members of the House Freedom Caucus say don’t go far enough. “No budget, no tax reform,” Brady said. To beat a filibuster, White House officials have said they are also reaching out to Democrats, particularly fiscal conservatives who represent states Trump carried in the 2016 election. But with partisan rancor intensifying under Trump, the cooperation of any Democrats is far from assured. “The idea is not just to roll it out, but to roll over us as they did in the health care bill,” Doggett said. “It ought to be a lesson that locking things up from view and pushing things through in a high-handed manner won’t work.” Conservative groups behind the tax reform push say they are heartened by what they see as greater Republican unity around the tax agenda than there was for repealing the Affordable Care Act. But the issue is every bit as complicated and wonky, and the collision of divergent interests perhaps even more intense. Only two cherished write-offs seem to be off the table: the deduction for charitable giving and the popular mortgage interest deduction, though there have been calls to cap the mortgage interest write-off. “There’s a reason tax reform hasn’t been done since 1986,” said Tim Phillips, president of Americans for Prosperity, the influential advocacy group funded by the conservative Koch brothers. “It’s difficult. The most powerful and most wealthy interest groups in the United States all want to protect their carve-outs, and every individual in America has a stake too.” Corporate loopholes Liberal groups see the entire tax reform project as a cover to reduce corporate tax rates, while at the same time preserving cherished tax breaks such as the so-called carried-interest loophole for certain fund managers, venture capitalists and private equity investors. The issue came to a head recently when Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, the White House’s point man on tax reform, said during an appearance with McConnell in Kentucky that the president might preserve the controversial loophole in some cases, contrary to Trump’s campaign promises. “Secretary Mnuchin’s private equity friends are rejoicing,” said former BlackRock managing director Morris Pearl, chairman of Patriotic Millionaires, a group of business leaders and wealthy investors who argue that taxes from billionaires and corporations should comprise a higher proportion of federal receipts. “The treasury secretary made it clear. The Trump administration stands with Wall Street.” Compounding the public relations hit was Mnuchin’s new wife, Louise Linton, who mocked an Oregon mother’s humble circumstances after the woman criticized her for bragging on social media about her all-designer wardrobe on the trip to Kentucky. The incident became a rallying cry for critics. Brady said no decisions have been made about the carried-interest loophole, which allows fund managers to pay income taxes at lower investment rates, rather than as wage or salary income, even though their own money is not at risk. Democrats say they’re all in favor of ridding the tax code of special interest tax breaks, many of which, they claim, were passed by Republican majorities in Congress. The real battle may focus on corporate tax rates that, Republicans like to point out, are the highest in the world. Democrats counter that the top statutory rate of 35 percent is misleading since a passel of business tax breaks and credits often bring the actual rates down to a fraction of that. They also warn that even more tax breaks for the super rich, who pay the majority of all taxes, would undermine the nation’s commitment to infrastructure and social programs such as Social Security and Medicare. Brady’s argument is that the economic stimulus of tax relief will translate into more revenue, an argument that echoes the supply-side economics of the Reagan era. “Nothing strengthens Social Security and Medicare like more Americans back at work with higher-paying jobs,” he said. But even Brady’s backers say that his opportunity, which he often describes as “once in a lifetime,” may be short-lived. “If they go into 2018, the odds of achieving tax reform go down,” Phillips said, “because election-year politics make politicians even more timid.”
09.06.2017	More than 150 people chanted in protest outside the John H. Wood Federal Courthouse Tuesday afternoon following the Trump administration’s formal announcement to end DACA, a program that granted two-year, renewable work permits to more than 800,000 young undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children and protected them from deportation. Dozens of DACA recipients – some teachers and many of them still students – stepped up to the podium to tell personal experiences about “growing up in the shadows.” Many struggled to hold back tears. Joining them in support were local politicians like State Reps. Diego Bernal (D-123), Diana Arévalo (D-116), and Tomas Uresti (D-118), among others. “Today I feel disappointed and heartbroken that our president didn’t see our humanity and our contributions,” said Jessica Azua, a DACA recipient and member of the Texas Organizing Project. “I’m angry that he didn’t have the courage to deliver the message today himself. Instead of being a leader he tried to wash his hands by putting it on Congress.” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said Tuesday that the Obama-era program is unconstitutional and, therefore, being “rescinded.” Sessions added that the immigration program was responsible for a surge of minors at the southern border and lack of job opportunities for Americans. “All immigration policies should serve the interests of the people of the United States – lawful immigrant and native born alike,” Sessions said Tuesday during a press briefing at the Justice Department. “Congress should carefully and thoughtfully pursue the types of reforms that are right for the American people. Our nation is comprised of good and decent people who want their government’s leaders to fulfill their promises and advance an immigration policy that serves the national interest.” During Tuesday night’s rally, community organizers held up signs in support of DACA and all undocumented immigrants. Artists and ‘Dreamers’ read poems, and political leaders hugged and encouraged DACA recipients. Chants of “Si Se Puede!” and “Undocumented but unafraid!” filled the air, as people raised their fists in unison after speakers took turns speaking from the podium. The protest in San Antonio was one of dozens held across the country in other major U.S. cities such as Denver, Los Angeles, Chicago, New York, Washington, D.C. “This president does not represent the values of our people here in San Antonio and across America,” Arévalo said, adding that Dreamers must continue to come out of the shadows and fight for their cause. “We are a country filled with immigrants, we are the United States of America because not all of us were born here, but we came here to seek refuge and seek a better life. Today is the beginning of a new fight – and America will rise.” Councilwoman Shirley Gonzales (D5) and Councilman Rey Saldaña (D4), who are both first-generation Americans and children of undocumented immigrants, called for community members to raise their voices and be a voice for the voiceless. “I feel so disappointed in our government on so many levels,” Gonzales said. “There are so many people in my community that have become very quiet and are afraid to report crimes and what’s happening in their neighborhoods. We need strong voices on their behalf because they are afraid. We need to come together, not just for our Dreamers but all members of our community.” Leaders of institutions across the state have echoed the call for congressional action. UT System Chancellor William McRaven released a statement on Tuesday in support of DACA students. Foreign-born Texans, McRaven said, make the state “stronger, smarter, more competitive, and more attuned to the rest of our ever-shrinking globe.” McRaven commended DACA students’ contributions and urged the federal government to take their valuable role into account. “… While I understand the concern of the President and others about how DACA was implemented, the critical fact is that I and the UT System believe in our DACA students and that their opportunities to contribute to Texas and our nation should be upheld and continued by our leaders in Washington,” McRaven stated. Teresita Marsal Avila, an immigration attorney based in Oak Brook, Ill., said that those currently protected under DACA and those eligible for DACA should consider the following: Starting Sept. 5, new applications for DACA cannot be submitted. The Dreamers who request protection through Tuesday will see their request processed normally. Dreamers whose permission expires between now and March 5, 2018 may be renewed, but they must apply before Oct. 5. They have only one month to request the new permit. Dreamers whose permission ends beyond March 5, 2018 will not be able to renew it again. In a tweet preceding the announcement by Sessions, President Donald Trump alluded to the role Congress must play in replacing DACA. “Congress, get ready to do your job – DACA!” the president’s Tuesday tweet read. Sessions’ announcement unleashed a flurry of statements from lawmakers condemning and applauding the recension. However, they acknowledged, the ball is now in their court. “Now it’s up to Congress to do the right thing and pass legislation that will protect DACA recipients,” U.S. Rep. Joaquín Castro (D-Texas) said in a statement. “Republicans must make a choice: will they stand with President Trump and help carry out his mass deportation plan, or will they act on behalf of the majority of Americans who support DACA? This decision is not just about policy; it defines our morality. There has never been a more urgent need for Congress to act and take a stand for Dreamers.” The decision to end DACA marks a “return to the rule of law,” U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Texas) said in a statement, and “overturns the last of the Obama Administration’s amnesty agenda.” While the next steps rest with Congress, leaders from every level of government took to social media to weigh in. San Antonio Mayor Ron Nirenberg posted on Facebook. “As Mayor of San Antonio, a city rooted in compassion, my job is to advocate for the rights of all. DACA recipients are our students and our employees, our family members and our neighbors. They contribute to our country as taxpayers, and their innovative ideas, hard work and dedication are the foundation of a strong community.” Former U.S. President Barack Obama released a statement of his own on Facebook, calling the decision to end DACA “cruel” and “self-defeating.” After receiving an email from U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) informing constituents about the decision and affirming that “protecting Dreamers must be nonnegotiable,” Rev. John Gardner was encouraged. Gardner’s San Antonio Mennonite Fellowship has welcomed influxes of refugees and otherwise advocated for immigrants. He agreed with Obama’s assessment of Dreamers and the complicated topic of immigration. “These are my friends. These are like my family members,” Gardner said. “The justification [for rescinding DACA], obviously, is that this is about law and order and that this was executive overreach. I don’t think it is, I think it’s rooted in racism. But even if you want to make it about the law, let’s go all the way back to God’s law.” God’s law, Gardner said, welcomes the immigrant and the stranger. “Shame on us to benefit from a system that doesn’t,” Gardner said. The great majority of the estimated 800,000 Dreamers are Mexican nationals who were brought to the U.S. as minors. On Tuesday, the Mexican government issued a statement urging U.S. authorities “to find a quick resolution to the legal uncertainty” confronting DACA beneficiaries. The Mexican government, through the use of its 50 consulates in the U.S., has committed to guarantee consular protection to those affected and added that it will receive “young Dreamers” who return to Mexico with “open arms.” The Foreign Ministry outlined several aid initiatives, including scholarships and special work opportunities for those who may be forced to return. The effort to replace DACA could be more bipartisan than some anticipate, at least for delegations from states where DACA directly effects large portions of the population. In Texas alone, 120,000 young people filed for DACA status following Obama’s 2012 executive order instituting the program, according to data from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. U.S. Rep. Will Hurd (R-Texas) said he is ready to work with members on both sides of the aisle to protect the Dreamers in a “broken” immigration system. “Congress must provide a permanent, legislative solution for children brought here through no fault of their own,” Hurd said in a statement. “We should create immigration policies that strengthen our economy and keep Americans safe, which is why I look forward to working with my colleagues to make a permanent, legislative solution that allows people who have only known America as their home, to stay and continue contributing to our Nation’s culture, economy, and history.” U.S. Sen. John McCain (R-Arizona) voiced support for the DREAM Act. In a statement issued Tuesday McCain said, “I will be working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to devise and pass comprehensive immigration reform, which will include the DREAM Act.” Several immigration reform bills have been filed in Congress. Among them, the RAISE Act is favored by Trump’s “America First” Republicans, while the Dream Act of 2017 has garnered bipartisan support from the other end of the spectrum. The ENLIST Act and BRIDGE Act both aim at partial reform. RAISE Act – The Reforming American Immigration for Strong Employment Act, sponsored by U.S. Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas), cuts green cards by 50% and caps the number of annual refugees at 50,000. The bill limits family-sponsored immigration to children under the age of 21 and spouses of those with documented legal status in the U.S. The bill gives preference to highly skilled workers when issuing visas. Dream Act of 2017 – Sponsored by U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and a bipartisan coalition, the 2017 Dream Act is a reprisal of an ongoing effort to provide a path to citizenship, especially for children brought to the U.S. by parents without documentation. ENLIST Act – The Encourarge New Legalized Immigrants to Start Training Act, sponsored by U.S. Rep. Jeff Denham (R-California), allows immigrants unlawfully residing in the U.S. to gain legal status by serving in the military. BRIDGE Act – The Bar Removal of Individuals who Dream and Grow our Economy Act, also sponsored by Graham, does not provide a path to citizenship, but provides a temporary status for eligible immigrants so that they could work for three years from the date the bill is enacted. Eligibility requirements are essentially the same as DACA. U.S. Rep. Mike Coffman (R-Colorado) has said he will attempt to force a vote on the BRIDGE Act. RACA – The Recognizing America’s Children Act is sponsored by U.S. Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-Florida). It allows five-year conditional permanent resident status contingent upon enrollment in school, enlisting in the military, employment or other criteria. The program applies primarily to DACA-eligible populations, and allows for participants to file for a permanent green card at the end of the program. “I think there are certain senators and representatives that are really advocating for [a legislative solution],” said Diego Mancha Dominguez, a Dreamer who came to the U.S. when he was 8 years old and attended the Tuesday rally. “The BRIDGE Act would allow and solidify that, but it’s kind of stagnated since its introduction. It’s not only defending DACA now, it’s looking at the whole equation and looking into undocumented people as a whole.” While Congress weighs and debates proposed legislation, hundreds of thousands of DACA recipients are wading through the immediate implications of the Trump administration’s announcement. “Let’s remember that DACA was won not by politicians but by brave undocumented youth,” said RAICES Community Organizer Barbie Hurtado, who also is an immigrant. “They put their [lives] on the line for their community and we can do it again. Now is not the time to be afraid, it is the time to organize. DACA is proof that organizing led by those who are directly impacted works. The end of this program is a call to action …. to fight for all immigrants – those with and without DACA.”
09.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), who represents a number of “Dreamers” in San Antonio, Austin, and San Marcos, issued the following response to Attorney General Jeff Sessions’s announcement ending the Deferred Action Childhood Arrival (DACA) program in six months, jeopardizing the legal status of approximately 800,000 Dreamers in the United States. Rep. Doggett said: “President Trump lacked the courage to face the cameras and personally answer questions about his latest flip flop on the fate of 800,000 young people. He dispatched his Administration’s leading anti-immigrant advocate, Jeff Sessions in an attempt to shift responsibility to a Congress that has long failed to address this matter. Many of these Dreamers are children brought here as infants and now Republicans want them to be deported to a country many have never known. “Today’s tactic represents little more than yielding to those who did not think Trump was already sufficiently anti-immigrant. This is an attempt to make Dreamers bargaining chips to achieve other Trump anti-immigrant objectives. Protecting Dreamers must be nonnegotiable. We cannot break our commitment to these Dreamers, who have been vetted, paid fees, undergone criminal background checks, and are either in school or are already graduates, contributing to our economy. I stand with our Dreamers who are helping make America great.” ###
09.01.2017	WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Trump administration, in line with its tough immigration policy, is keeping red tape in place that could make it harder for immigrants in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey to find jobs with contractors, a decision critics say is likely to slow the Gulf Coast’s recovery. In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in 2005, Republican President George W. Bush temporarily exempted employers hiring Katrina victims from verifying that new employees were authorized to work in the United States. The 45-day suspension allowed survivors whose identification documents had been lost during the storm to work while awaiting new ones, but it also allowed undocumented immigrants to quickly find jobs with contractors. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services said in a statement on Wednesday that while it will expedite the replacement of lost documents for storm victims, employment verification requirements will remain in place, a move that drew both praise and scorn from politicians and others. “With so much rebuilding needed, we should make it easier for folks to get back to work,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Democrat whose constituency includes parts of southeast Texas. “Unfortunately, always overflowing with anti-immigrant hysteria, the Trump administration is choosing red tape and bureaucracy instead of learning lessons from past disasters.” President Donald Trump, a Republican, built a base of support in the 2016 election campaign by vowing to stop people immigrating to the United States illegally and is pushing for a wall to be built along the U.S. border with Mexico. But business leaders say immigrants make important contributions and that any effort to limit their employment will hurt economic growth and tax revenue. Representative Marc Veasey, another Texas Democrat, said the government should not penalize Harvey victims. “Providing employers with temporary leeway will allow Texans to focus on rebuilding their lives and not on pressuring potential employees to provide documents that may have been lost during Hurricane Harvey,” Veasey said. Representative Lamar Smith, a Republican congressman for south-central Texas, was critical of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) decision in 2005 and thinks it should not be repeated now. Harvey came ashore last Friday as the most powerful storm to hit Texas in 50 years, flooding Houston and driving tens of thousands from their homes before moving to Louisiana. On Thursday, he said Harvey’s destruction “does not mean federal immigration laws should be ignored.” “Nor should regulations that require federal contractors to verify legal work authorization of their employees,” he said in a statement to Reuters. “These policies were put in place to protect American workers and taxpayers.” USCIS referred questions on the decision to Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the division under the DHS that enforces federal immigration policy. ICE spokeswoman Dani Bennett declined to speculate about future policy changes, but said it was not ICE’s intent to conduct immigration enforcement in areas affected by Harvey. ‘NOT THE TIME TO GET PRECIOUS’ Waiving verification requirements after Katrina was aimed at citizens and legal residents who had lost documents in the storm, since employers must verify the identity of all new hires through documents, such as passports, permanent residence cards, or driver’s licenses. But several immigration attorneys said the DHS’ 2005 decision was also a tacit acknowledgment that undocumented immigrants were needed to help the rebuilding. The Pew Research Center estimated last year that 28 percent of Texas’s construction workforce is undocumented, while other studies have put the number as high as 50 percent. “In certain circumstances those are the people you desperately need to help you do things,” said William J. Manning, an immigration attorney in New York. “This is not the time to get precious about their documentation.” In the days and weeks after Katrina, contractors from inside and outside New Orleans moved to rebuild and take advantage of government reconstruction funds. But the number of workers in construction and related industries in the New Orleans area plummeted just after the hurricane, according to a 2006 Brookings Institution study. The DHS decision, and a separate decision by the Department of Labor to temporarily lift wage restrictions, were part of an effort by the Bush administration to address the labor shortage. Some worry that the Trump administration’s decision will slow down the post-Harvey rebuilding, because employers will struggle to meet the federal documentation requirements in the storm’s aftermath. “Damage is damage, and there are repairs that need to be done,” said Jorge Lopez, an immigration attorney in Florida. “Local folks are trying to hire right away because even with their existing crew they’re not going to have enough people to do all the work that needs to be done.”
09.01.2017	Questions about immigration status are “still off the table” for San Antonio police after a federal judge blocked most of the new Texas “sanctuary cities” law set to take effect Friday, Police Chief William McManus said Thursday. The San Antonio Police Department will have to change its policies after U.S. District Judge Orlando Garcia on Wednesday upheld a portion of Senate Bill 4, which creates penalties for local governments that prohibit police from asking about immigration status. But city officials and lawyers who had challenged the law said Thursday that other portions of the ban that Garcia struck down severely limited its impact. The law allows the attorney general to fine or remove from office local officials who “prohibit or materially limit” a police officer from “inquiring into the immigration status of a person under a lawful detention or under arrest” and sharing information with federal immigration authorities. Garcia blocked the phrase “materially limit,” writing that it was too vague, but left in place the word “prohibit.” As a result, the police department removed from its policy a line that states: “Officers will not ask any person for proof of citizenship or legal residency.” Still, Garcia sufficiently diluted the SB 4 provisions, said lawyers representing San Antonio and other city and county governments who sued the state to halt the law. They said police departments can tell officers questions about immigration status are a low priority and should be avoided as long as they don’t outright block them from asking. To that end, McManus read to reporters at a news conference the city’s revised policy: “Officers will not detain and/or arrest an individual based on the fact or suspicion that they are in the United States illegally. The enforcement priorities of this department are to protect the public safety, and the priorities do not include asking any person for proof of citizenship or legal residency.” Officers are also instructed not to ask victims or witnesses of a crime about their immigration status “unless an officer must ask to further investigate the offense” or the officer is providing information about visas for immigrants who cooperate with police, the new policy states. “Otherwise, we do not ask and our priorities remain the same, and that is to answer calls for service and work with the public to help prevent and deter crime,” McManus said. The chief said that officers will receive a copy of the new policy and will be shown a video about it at roll call. While Garcia ruled that police are allowed to ask about immigration status during an arrest or detention, which could include a traffic stop, and are allowed to share information with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, he warned that the law does not allow police to stop someone to determine their immigration status or to draw out detentions for immigration enforcement, even if someone admits to being in the country illegally. “SB 4 merely requires that the officer be permitted (but not required) to share with ICE whatever information (however incomplete) he discovers during his immigration inquiry, either after releasing the individual or during the seizure, provided that this communication does not prolong the seizure,” Garcia wrote. His ruling, a response to a lawsuit filed by local governments, including San Antonio and the border town of El Cenizo, temporarily blocks most of SB 4 from taking effect until he can decide its constitutionality. Attorney General Ken Paxton filed a notice Thursday stating he’ll appeal Garcia’s decision. A section the judge blocked that allows the attorney general to fine and remove from office for local officials who “adopt, enforce, or endorse a policy under which the entity or department prohibits or materially limits the enforcement of immigration laws” had made opponents particularly nervous. They’d argued the word “endorse” in that context allowed the state to punish any official who voiced opposition to SB 4 and that the phrase “materially limits” was so vague it would require local police to act as immigration officers or risk penalties. Garcia agreed, saying that both were likely unconstitutional and barred the state from enforcing them. In a brief filed Thursday asking Garcia to stay his injunction, attorneys for the state wrote that Garcia misunderstood the segment of the law, which “is designed to stop local law enforcement agencies from having policies that obstruct cooperation with federal immigration officials.” Garcia denied the state’s request to stay his decision until the appeal is decided. Although he said some portions of the law were constitutional, Garcia expressed concern about the bill. “There is overwhelming evidence by local officials, including local law enforcement, that SB 4 will erode public trust and make many communities and neighborhoods less safe,” the judge wrote. “There is also ample evidence that localities will suffer adverse economic consequences which, in turn, harm the State of Texas. Indeed, at the end of the day, the Legislature is free to ignore the pleas of city and county officials, along with local police departments, who are in the trenches and neighborhoods enforcing the law on a daily and continuing basis. The depth and reservoir of knowledge and experience possessed by local officials can be ignored. The Court cannot and does not second guess the Legislature. However, the State may not exercise its authority in a manner that violates the United States Constitution.” Opponents of SB 4 cast the debate over the law as a contest between the will of officials in Austin and local governments. “This is the most vivid example of the state playing Big Brother in a year that has been overloaded with state and federal attempts to dictate municipal policy to local elected officials,” Mayor Ron Nirenberg said Thursday. “The bottom line is that SB 4 is an excessive and cruel reaction to the federal government’s failure to deal with immigration.” The fight over SB 4 is part of a larger shift in the national immigration debate. During the administration of former President Barack Obama, the federal government and the state of Texas were often at odds on immigration policy. Under President Donald Trump, the Justice Department has come out in favor of SB 4, telling Garcia the law is constitutional. Joining immigration activists in front of the federal courthouse Thursday morning, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-San Antonio, said the SB 4 decision “gives us encouragement that we will ultimately prevail, that we will never accept being drug backwards by those state officials who are kind of the Junior Trumps up there in Austin.” Doggett noted that despite the victory over SB 4, recipients of the Obama administration’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program face a looming threat, again driven by the state of Texas. Paxton has told the Trump administration that if it does not end the program that provides renewable two-year reprieves from deportation to some young immigrants who are in the country without permission, he will challenge it in court on Tuesday. According to national media reports, Trump is considering halting or changing the program, possibly as early as Friday. “It’s very unlike President Trump to yield to a threat,” Doggett said. “So I hope he’s not going to back down in the face of Ken Paxton.” Selene Gomez, the San Antonio area coordinator for Mi Familia Vota, said at the rally that activists will be holding another event Friday in Milam Park asking the City Council for a resolution in favor of immigrants’ rights and preparing for a decision on deferred action, known as DACA. Her organization will continue to combat SB 4 and encourage Texans to vote against the legislators who supported it, Gomez said, but “everybody now is shifting 100 percent to DACA.”
08.21.2017	San Antonio, Texas – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-San Antonio) and Congressman Joaquin Castro (D-San Antonio) announced that the U.S. Department of Labor awarded a $1.1 million pre-apprenticeship grant to SA Youth, which serves at-risk individuals throughout San Antonio. “Expanding our skilled workforce is essential to strengthening our economy here in Central Texas,” said Rep. Lloyd Doggett. “By providing youth an opportunity to gain job-training, SA Youth is helping to break the cycle of poverty so that more Texans can obtain liveable-wage jobs and advance into the middle class. This designation will further support SA Youth’s YouthBuild Program mission to improve educational achievement and develop healthy lifestyles. I commend the work of President and CEO Asia Ciaravino and her team for their service and dedication to providing young people the opportunity to not only earn their high school diploma or GED, but also prepare them for the workforce. ” “We are thrilled about this opportunity and what it means to our city,” said Asia Ciaravino President & CEO of SA Youth. “Over the course of this funding cycle, 65 young adults in San Antonio who have left the traditional school system will be able to earn their GED or high school diploma while receiving workforce training in the high growth construction industry. Two families will find their forever homes built by our participants on the city’s eastside in the Promise Zone.” “YouthBuild grows the talent pool available to San Antonio employers while allowing young people to earn degrees and certifications for in-demand occupations. I’m thrilled that San Antonio students will have new opportunities to gain essential skills to succeed and access higher paying jobs,” said Rep. Joaquin Castro. “This program helps expand the local workforce, reduce poverty, grow our city's economy, and transform lives in our community for the better.” YouthBuild is a program of SA Youth, a nationwide pre-apprenticeship program that helps at-risk youth, ages 16-24, complete high school or state equivalency degrees, earn industry-recognized certifications for in-demand occupations, and undergo training to build housing for low-income or homeless individuals and families in their communities. YouthBuild has a network of approximately 260 active urban and rural YouthBuild grants in 46 states. ###
08.21.2017	Hundreds of demonstrators, galvanized by the violence that turned fatal in Virginia one week ago, took to Austin City Hall on Saturday to promote a message of love and unity. “The purpose in getting out here is to start helping heal the nation. That hasn’t been done on a higher, administrative level, yet,” said rally speaker Henry King. “It’s been attempted, but we really need to put humanity and peace even over America. We need to be human first and American second.” Organizers of the “Rally Against White Supremacy” said about 1,200 people attended. The Austin Police Department estimated at least 1,000. No group came to counterprotest. The event, organizers said, was planned in just a week’s time — setting up a rally is something that they’ve become more savvy about as these events become a staple of Austin political life. Demonstrators held signs that read, “Only one side: love,” “Hate is not a family value,” and “White silence = violence.” King and Margaret Haule of Black Lives Matter led the group in a “Say Their Names” call-and-answer. Speakers listed names of and spoke about people killed by police violence and hate crimes as well as journalists killed for doing their jobs. When they came to the name of Heather Heyer, the 32-year-old killed last week when a vehicle plowed into a crowd of people protesting a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Va., Haule told the crowd to say it again. They obliged. She told them to say it louder. The crowd roared. Later, Patty Hatcher, an Austin Community College humanities professor, read a quote from Heyer’s mother: “They tried to kill my child to shut her up. Well, guess what? You just magnified her.” “I want you to know that each and every one of you are here to amplify all the voices,” Hatcher continued, “of those who have been lost and those who stand against hate and stand for freedom and equality.” U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, who on Friday joined House Democrats calling for the censure of President Donald Trump after his remarks about Charlottesville, also spoke at Saturday’s rally. “We need everyone in this community to turn up the heat on hate,” Doggett said, adding later, “Hate never has and hate never will make America great.” Just a day after Austin Mayor Steve Adler announced he’ll lead a group of mayors from around the country in a national anti-bigotry effort in response to the Charlottesville violence, Adler addressed the crowd. “There is only one who should be carrying a torch, and that is the Statue of liberty,” Adler said. “In Austin, Texas, white supremacists will never be supreme.” Paige Berry, 27, a graphic designer who lives in the North Loop area, said she went to Saturday’s rally to take a public stand against hatred and racism. “(Hate groups) have numbers, obviously, and it’s more important than ever to bring that mass opposition and show everyone that there’s no place for this in America, in the world, anywhere,” Berry said. The rally was mostly peaceful except for a small episode during which a delivery cyclist allegedly taunted a few demonstrators by asking “antagonistic” questions and whacked a phone out of hands of one demonstrator, John Fricker, a 53-year-old South Austinite. Fricker and several others gave statements to police. Fricker said the reason he came to the rally was to fight against people with hate in their hearts. “We just can’t let stuff like that pass,” Fricker said, adding that he hadn’t decided whether to press charges over the incident. “Intolerance can’t be tolerated. That’s the paradox of tolerance.”
08.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) issued the following statement after Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton announced that he is appealing the unanimous finding of a three-judge panel of federal judges that the State’s congressional map intentionally discriminated and violated the Constitution: “This desperate, highly questionable Paxton-Abbott maneuver comes after yet another ruling against the State of Texas for intentional discrimination. This latest ruling is a unanimous decision by a three-judge federal court in San Antonio that includes two Republican appointees. I believe that this Paxton-Abbott scheming only reaffirms the position that I have consistently taken. While the three-judge decision about some Republican redistricting wrongs is legally correct, nothing will be finally resolved until the Supreme Court has its say. I am seeking reelection in the district that I represent today from south San Antonio to north Austin, without the change of a single voter, until such time as the Supreme Court issues a final order telling me otherwise.” ###
08.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) issued the following statement as a sponsor of a resolution to censure President Trump for his failure regarding recent violence in Charlottesville. Rep. Doggett said: “This censure reflects a collective disapproval by Americans across the country of President Trump’s dangerous rhetoric. His conduct empowers bigoted extremists and risking further violence on our streets. When Republican colleagues cover-up for Trump and decline to condemn his misconduct, they, in turn, empower him. This resolution gives Republicans another opportunity to unite with us in unequivocally rejecting Trump’s embrace of hate groups. “President Trump’s failure to clearly, consistently, and swiftly repudiate the white supremacists responsible is inexcusable. In sadly typical Trump style, he tried to lay blame on ‘all sides’ comparing nonviolent counter-protestors for equality and justice with the torch-lit processions filled with people shouting anti-Semitic and racist slurs and carrying Nazi flags.” There are over 90 sponsors of this resolution, which can be found here. ###
08.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee and chair of the Prescription Drug Task Force, issued the following statement after Trump’s Department of Justice agreed to settle charges against Mylan’s EpiPen rebate misclassification for $465 million. The misclassification could have cost taxpayers to overpay as much as $1.27 billion from 2006 to 2016, according to an estimate from the Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of the Inspector General. Rep. Doggett said: “This sorry settlement amounts to a shocking $800 million gift to a leading price gouger at taxpayer expense. It insults families who have been crying out for relief from Mylan and is an affront to taxpayers. Once again, the Trump Administration adds another brick to the wall of broken promises, letting one of the companies that Trump said are ‘getting away with murder’ keep so much of its ill-gotten gains. I have repeatedly asked the Department of Health and Human Services, Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services, and even the Federal Trade Commission to protect taxpayers and patients from the effects of EpiPen high prices. To be answered with this settlement is unacceptable.” ###
08.16.2017	Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee Ranking Member responded to President Trump’s remarks yesterday and Rep. Kevin Brady’s Republican tax-writing retreat taking place at Rancho del Cielo in California, today. Rep. Doggett said: “I call on my Republican colleagues to announce a new plan today. Instead of teaming up with Trump to obtain more costly tax breaks for the superrich, they need to lay out a plan to contain Trump. Only hours after he included among his ‘very fine people’ those who march in torch-lit processions shouting racist and anti-Jewish slurs and carrying Nazi flags, this is certainly not a time for more ‘business as usual.’ Now is not the time for another tax payoff. Almost every day, Trump sullies the high office he holds and endangers our values and families. “Yes, Republicans have kept mostly moot while Trump engages in one wrong after another in hopes that he will provide them the golden ticket for huge tax breaks. But this time, Trump has gone far too far. Republicans must begin anew at this afternoon's Reagan Library event by announcing that they will no longer cover up the tax returns of Trump and his business enterprises. They should then accompany any tax plan they propose with a line-by-line report of how much Trump, his family, and his companies will benefit from each one. And announce a series of public hearings to explore every aspect of their plan. “But more than the tax cuts for the wealthiest few, the crown jewel of Republican dogma, we need an overall House plan of how to use our constitutional system of checks and balances to discourage violence, ensure our democracy’s stability, and contain this erratic, dangerous president.”
08.15.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) issued the following statement after a panel of three federal judges issued a ruling on the 2013 Texas congressional maps: “The Court unanimously found that the Republican-drawn congressional map was intentionally discriminatory. What Republicans did was not just wrong, it was unconstitutional. Since the U.S. Supreme Court will have the final say, this extended struggle is not yet over. Unless the Supreme Court rules otherwise, I plan to seek reelection in the district that I currently represent. I will continue to remain fully accessible and accountable to my constituents in Bexar, Travis, Hays, Caldwell and the portions of the other counties that I serve.” ###
08.14.2017	ROSEANNA GARZA/RIVARD REPORT U.S. Rep Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) speaks to audience as Ashley Smith and U.S. Rep. Joaquín Castro (D-Texas) listen in the background. The Ella Austin Community Center’s auditorium was packed Saturday afternoon, as a crowd of about 200 filled the seats and lined the walkways, sweating in anticipation of the town hall meeting centered around health care and the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Because the air conditioning system in the auditorium was no match for the sweltering summer day and full house, Ella Austin CEO Anthony Hargrove asked the crowd to “bear with [him]” as the AC worked double-duty. Bear with him they did. Audience members remained – paper fans providing relief from the heat– actively engaged for more than two-and-a-half hours, standing in line to ask local congressional representatives questions. “This is how democracy works,” community activist Ashley Smith told the audience. “You are here to let your voices be heard, to ask questions, and to hear responses from the people you elected.” The meeting was sponsored by TX21 Indivisible with support of other San Antonio area chapters. Indivisible is a grassroots advocacy group focused on resistance to the Trump administration and its policies. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-San Antonio) and U.S. Rep. Joaquín Castro (D-San Antonio) were in attendance. ROSEANNA GARZA/RIVARD REPORT A crowd of about 200 people fills the Ella Austin Community Center auditorium at the healthcare town hall. U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Texas) and U.S. Rep. Will Hurd (R-Texas) declined invitations to attend the town hall meeting. “The worst thing we can do as Texans is to allow politics to divide us,” Castro told the audience. “We are at our best when working together.” The ACA has been a point of contention between Republicans and Democrats since it was signed into law by President Barack Obama in March 2010. For seven years, Republicans have riled against the legislation, but have struggled to present an achievable alternative. Roughly 20 million people have gained coverage through the ACA. Repealing the law was a top priority for President Donald Trump and Republicans in Congress, who say it has driven up premiums and forced consumers to buy insurance they do not want and cannot afford. House Republicans narrowly passed a bill to repeal the ACA in May, a difficult-to-achieve vote that was supposed to set the stage for Senate action. But with conservatives and moderates so far apart in the Senate, Republicans struggled to bridge the gap between them, resulting in a legislative dead end. Conservatives wanted to see the ACA completely eradicated, but moderates worried about the effects that would have on their most vulnerable citizens. The failed Trump alternative(s) included key provisions allowing for the sale of low-cost, stripped-down health plans, which opponents have argued would increase premiums and undermine protections for people with pre-existing medical conditions. Trump recently declared that his plan is to “let Obamacare fail,” and suggested that Democrats would then seek out Republicans to work together on a a healthcare bill to bury the ACA. In what appears to be an effort to hasten the ACA’s demise, Trump’s administration has ended ACA contracts that brought assistance into neighborhoods in 18 cities, making it even more difficult to enroll the uninsured and help people already covered re-enroll or shop for a new policy. While the contracts were temporary, they funded companies to hire “navigators” to spread the word in the community – at churches, libraries, and sporting events – and guide people through the often-complicated enrollment process. San Antonio is one of the 18 cities affected by federal funding for enrollment assistance being pulled. Dallas, Houston, Austin, McAllen, and El Paso are the other cities in Texas affected by the elimination of these contracts. In addition to the reduction in enrollment assistance, people will now have 45 days to shop for 2018 coverage, starting Nov. 1 and ending Dec. 15. In previous years, they had twice as much time. Doggett told the Rivard Report that due to the dramatic cuts in funding for assisting local vulnerable populations enrolling in healthcare, “we have to make up for that at the local level.” “Even with all of the effort that we have had in the last couple of years, there are too many families who are uninsured in the Bexar County area,” Doggett said. “Outreach, particularly to Latino families, was insufficient [before], and now it appears to be nonexistent.” EnrollSA is a coalition of local government and healthcare officials that has made efforts to sign people up for ACA health insurance coverage in Bexar County since 2013. Castro said these organizations will have to “pick up the slack” to help support ACA enrollments. ROSEANNA GARZA/RIVARD REPORT U.S. Rep. Joaquín Castro (D-Texas) speaks to the audience at the healthcare town hall at the Ella Austin Community Center. Castro told the Rivard Report that the “drastic cuts are endangering the ACA,” making it more difficult for people to understand their options for insurance and enroll in coverage. In 2014, Texas ranked 49th in the nation, with only 47% of Texans enrolled in employment-based health insurance coverage. Texas’ rate of uninsured people fell to 16.8% in 2015 following the implementation of the ACA. In 2010, the national rate of uninsured individuals was 16%. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported that in the first nine months of 2016, a mere 8.8% of Americans – or 28.2 million people – were uninsured. That’s a drop of 0.3 percentage points from the same period in 2015. Texas still leads the nation in uninsured adults. “I’m convinced that what stopped the healthcare repeal is people like you,” Doggett told the audience at the Ella Austin Community Center. According to reports from the Trump administration, about 12.2 million people signed up for ACA plans during the 2017 enrollment period, falling short of the Obama administration’s projected signups of 13.8 million people. Enrollmen is slightly down from the 2016 enrollment period. Of those who signed up for plans for 2017, 31% were new customers. Both Doggett and Castro agree that changes can be made to improve the current healthcare system. When speaking about insurance plans, Castro said it is time for Democrats to get behind a single-payer healthcare system and doesn’t “believe [he] is alone in that thought.” Doggett agreed, citing Medicaid alternatives he supported in the past, including Medicaid for More, which aimed at increasing availability and allowing people to buy in and later, Medicaid for All, a single-payer option. “I support universal healthcare coverage,” Castro said. “How we get there is the debate. As you can imagine right now we are so far from that bill.” While the town hall was set with the intention of covering topics related to healthcare, audience members had many other things on their minds. Doggett and Castro fielded questions regarding tax reform, the “sanctuary cities” and “bathroom” bills, environmental protection, gerrymandering in Bexar County, medical marijuana, national security threats, and more. In response to a question from a resident of congressional District 1 regarding medical marijuana, both representatives said they support reviewing current restrictions. Doggett cited a story about a close friend whose daughter suffers from epileptic seizures; he saw firsthand the positive benefits of medical marijuana, which is one reason he believes that “there ought to be other alternatives available.” Speaking in response to questions about immigration, Castro told the audience that “the immigration system is broken,” and comprehensive reform is necessary. Doggett agreed, stating, “we have to find a way to get a fair and just immigration system in place.” When asked by an audience member from congressional District 15 what they are doing to “stop the decimation of the Environmental Protection Agency,” both congressmen reported working hard to address what Doggett called “a major national security threat.”
08.11.2017	Debbie Hernandez meets with a group of her neighbors once a week to talk about ways to reduce crime in her neighborhood. She formed a Nextdoor page to connect neighbors and report incidents, and she’s met with officials to talk about cleaning up the roads and highways near Lackland Air Force Base. “We’re trying to network a group because as we started doing this, people from the other side of Kelly [Air Force Base, known today as Port San Antonio] started asking [if they could] join us because we’re trying to do similar things,” Hernandez said. “So, the word has gone out: What if we can get a Southside group together?” A lifelong Southside resident, Hernandez was one of dozens of neighborhood, school, and business leaders who attended the Southside First Economic Development Council’s Wednesday launch of the community initiative, Thriving Together. In conjunction with the South San Antonio Chamber of Commerce, the nonprofit council introduced Thriving Together to “promote investment and encourage revitalization, and energize local and prospective businesses and engage neighborhoods while providing economic accountability and sustainability for South San Antonio and Bexar County.” “If you want to go somewhere far, you have to go together,” Southside First Executive Director Andrew Anguiano told the crowd gathered at the Embassy Suites at Brooks. “But changes bring challenges and amplify issues yet to be fully addressed. They also bring up an immense amount of opportunity for us to come together to [bring] life [to] the Southside economy, for the over-350,000 residents [who] call this side of town home. “Southside First is a nonprofit whose mission is to be the voice of prosperity, community bridging, and responsible development.” Rudy Garza, a senior vice president at CPS Energy, is chairman of Southside First. “We have great leadership in the right spot,” Garza said, naming Leo Gomez of Brooks, Roland Mower of Port San Antonio, as well as Texas A&M San Antonio and Palo Alto College. “The timing is right to figure out a way to combine business with the schools and community, and that’s what this campaign is all about. It’s going to be a community-based approach for bringing together economic development strategies to the Southside and across the entire county. We’re going to be breaking down silos.” The launch of Thriving Together occurred on the eve of City Manager Sheryl Sculley’s presentation of a $2.7 billion budget proposal for fiscal year 2018 Thursday morning. The proposal will be the first to use an “equity lens” in an attempt to effectively allocate resources among the 10 council districts, committing more resources to areas and populations that have been largely ignored for decades. District 3 Councilwoman Rebecca Viagran, who was recently appointed chair of the City’s Economic Development Committee by Mayor Ron Nirenberg, said equitable distribution of funds to improve and build infrastructure is an important part of economic development for the Southside. “Our goal in the next two years is to get all of the streets in the city at least to a 70 PCI [pavement condition index] score,” she said. “This is going to help us move forward and attract those businesses here that we want to make the investment. But … it’s not just the businesses. It’s the neighborhood and the collaboration as we move forward. “Growing up here, my family had a small business, and we knew it took the entire family to pitch in to be a part of keeping everything going, and that’s just like us here.” U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) said Southside First is a good name for the new economic development council. “Because we have so many firsts – we were first with Toyota, first with Brooks converting to a dynamic area of economic development, first with the new [University of the Incarnate Word Osteopathic] medical school here, first with Texas A&M, the fastest growing university in the entire state,” Doggett said. SHARI BIEDIGER / RIVARD REPORT Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) speaks at the Southside First Economic Development Council event. Then, reflecting on his first meeting about the organization and its mission, he added, “I see what good ideas fueled by a little Southtown Mexican food can do for us. “But all of you who have been part of the Southside know there are some lasts here. It’s how we turn those into firsts.” According to Census data cited by Southside First, the Southside is 81.3% Hispanic, has a per capita income of $15,752, and a median income of $36,896. There are 6,909 businesses, but only 30% of the San Antonio population lives and works on the Southside. The numbers don’t lie, said Crystal Gomez, vice president of operations and management for Southside First, pointing to further research from the Institute for Child, Youth and Family Policy that shows children who grow up on the Southside have less opportunity than those in other areas of town. “We do need to address equity,” she said. “The Southside is what makes San Antonio unique. Everything we love about San Antonio started on the Southside.” Gomez outlined several initiatives that Southside First and the South Chamber will sponsor to promote Thriving Together, including monthly and annual networking events and workshops open to small business owners and neighborhood groups. The council produced a video that also plugs their concept, “We work, we build, we thrive together.” “This is about overcoming challenges,” Anguiano told the Rivard Report. “I had to think long and hard about taking this job. The challenge is we have so much happening, a diverse group of folks, history colliding with the new. So, who’s going to take up the mantle for the future, even if we don’t know what the ‘future’ means yet?” Video of Southside First #ThrivingTogether
08.06.2017	McALLEN, Texas (AP) — A group of Texas Democratic congressmen want more details about preliminary plans to build a section of President Donald Trump's proposed border wall through a federal wildlife refuge, saying such a move could do serious damage to the environment. Federal officials have told landowners and local officials that they intend to build on about 3 miles (nearly 5 kilometers) of the river levee that runs through the Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuge. The Trump administration has proposed 60 miles (96 kilometers) of wall construction in the Rio Grande Valley, the region of farmland and border cities at the southernmost point of Texas. The U.S. House has passed a budget proposal with $1.6 billion in funding to start construction in South Texas as well as 14 miles (22 kilometers) in San Diego. Advocates are concerned that the Santa Ana refuge, a key sanctuary for birds and endangered wildcats, could be cut off at its northern edge by the construction of a wall, reducing visitor traffic and disrupting wildlife. "A wall cutting through the refuge could do serious environmental and economic damage, and the American public deserves transparency for what could be billions of taxpayers' dollars spent on a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border," said the letter, sent Friday to Elaine Duke, the acting secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. The letter asks the DHS to confirm it has targeted the refuge and to answer whether it will comply with environmental reviews and a host of laws regulating endangered species and water use. The congressmen signing the letter are Joaquin Castro of San Antonio, Henry Cuellar of Laredo, Lloyd Doggett of Austin, Vicente Gonzalez of McAllen, Beto O'Rourke of El Paso, and Filemon Vela of Brownsville. It's unclear how quickly construction could begin if the Senate agrees to funding. The Trump administration could waive environmental reviews and other laws to expedite construction in Texas, as it already has for San Diego. And since the U.S. government controls the refuge, it would likely not have to file claims to take control of the land. Scott Nicol, co-chair of the Sierra Club Borderlands campaign, told The Monitor of McAllen that he's asked Customs and Border Protection officials to hold public meetings instead of inviting local officials to smaller gatherings. "The landowners and the people who live right there next to the wall should be able to show up and give their input and find out what's coming to their community," Nicol said.
08.06.2017	Texas State University’s Joe Falocco, an associate professor in the Department of English, has been awarded a National Endowment for the Humanities grant in support of his “Teaching Shakespeare’s Plays” project. The grant of approximately $63,000, awarded through Summer Seminars and Institutes for College and University Teachers, supports professional development programs in the humanities for school teachers and college and university faculty. “Shakespeare was a man of the theatre who wrote works of popular culture for the theatrical marketplace,” Falocco said. “Therefore, an understanding of the original staging conditions under which the plays were first produced is a necessary prerequisite for teaching Shakespeare. “This seminar is designed to provide that understanding,” he said. “Alumni will be able to bridge the gap between page and stage when teaching Shakespeare. They will guide students who read the plays to envisage their performance; and they will be prepared to stage scenes in their classrooms or for public consumption.” U.S. Rep Lloyd Doggett weighed in on the announcement. “Supporting the humanities and investing in our teachers and faculty is vital – they inspire new ways of thinking, encourage diversity and imagination, and offer critiques of our society,” he said. “This grant will strengthen Texas State’s humanities program and Professor Falocco’s project will not only aid educators, but will pave the way for our next generation to critically engage with history’s greatest works. I will continue to oppose President Trump’s proposal to eliminate the funding that makes this program possible.”
08.03.2017	Texas has long been a leader in energy production, which puts our politicians in a unique position when it comes to climate change. While politicians need to protect one of their state's booming industries, they also must balance the fact that at least some of the energy Texas produces is harming the environment. For Texas, the question of strict regulations on coal-fired plants has some of the most severe consequences, but 69 percent of the state's adult population still believes they should be imposed, according to a climate change opinion map put out earlier this year by the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication. It doesn't help that the state is often cited as having a lot of climate change deniers in office. But that contradicts the belief of many of the state's population - 69 percent of Texans believe global warming is happening and 57 percent of them are worried about it, according to Yale's data. The map can be broken down by state, congressional district, metro area and county and lists the opinion of adults in each area about things like climate change, what causes it, who is impacted by it and whether anything should be done about it. You can read about how Yale collected its data on the website's methodology tab. If it continues, according to NASA's Earth Observatory, global warming could impact rainfall patterns, melt ice caps and glaciers and alter the ranges of infectious diseases. Some of those things are already happening, the site says. Many of Texas's representatives have made their views on climate change - or at least energy production - public on their website. A few have successfully avoided the topic, or kept their views opaque. Dallas Republican Rep. Pete Sessions was criticized in 2016 for trying to pass a resolution that would recognize magic as an art form but not recognizing climate change as a global threat, but quoting him on his environmental views is a tough task. Others have made their views on climate change known. For example, in a section of blake.com, Rep. Blake Farenthold (R-27) calls global warming "a scare tactic used by groups with a political agenda." The site was updated as recently as 2016, but it isn't the website he currently uses as an elected official. In Farenthold's district, 68 percent of adults believe global warming is happening, 57 percent are worried about it and 65 percent of them support strict CO2 limits on existing coal-fired power plants. San Antonio Democrat Rep. Lloyd Doggett also has a strong opinion about climate change. After President Donald Trump announced the United States' withdrawal from the Paris Climate Agreement, Doggett updated his website to reflect his views on the subject. "...I strongly oppose President Trump's disastrous choice to withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement," his website reads. "He abandons American families to the growing harm of climate change and surrenders leadership on renewable energy to foreign competitors, like China and Germany." According to Yale's map, 76 percent of adults in Doggett's district support regulating CO2 as a pollutant and setting strict limits on coal-fired power plants. Rep. John Carter R-31 wrote a piece on his website in 2012 called The Return of the Warmers, in which he wrote, "We do face a global threat. But it's not global warming, it is global tyranny from this crowd of liars – the Warmers." The piece was removed, but it lives on in the internet archive. Sixty-seven percent of Carter's constituents believe global warming is happening and about 56 percent of them are worried about it. The map itself has a lot to offer in terms of the nation's views on climate change. For example, 52 percent of Texas adults believe global warming is caused mostly by human activities, which is just below the national average of 53 percent. Less than half of all Americans believe that most scientists think global warming is happening. Most Americans support regulating and even limiting CO2 production. Questions like whether human activity causes global warming and whether scientists can be trusted on the subject vary greatly between folks all over the country.
07.31.2017	Congressional Democrats are starting to push back against conservative influence groups that are rallying around tax reform with a public relations blitz. Such political organizations are only looking out for their boosters' best interests as they begin to focus more sharply on taxes as the GOP push to repeal the Affordable Care Act has stalled yet again, according to Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas). The ranking member of the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, Doggett's criticism was particularly pointed at groups tied to the billionaire Koch brothers, which are hosting an event with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin later today and another one Wednesday with Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.), chairman of the ultra-conservative House Freedom Caucus. "The Republican opening act of tax cuts for the superrich masquerading as health care repeal may have collapsed, but their billionaire buddies are setting the stage for the main event," said a statement from Doggett. "Congress may have recessed for August, but billionaire special interests, who demand ever more tax breaks, never go into recess." The Koch-backed groups are planning to spend millions of dollars on advertising, events and other outreach in August to promote tax reform. Other conservative advocacy groups are involved in parallel grassroots efforts, as are a number of large business groups, including the Business Roundtable and U.S. Chamber of Commerce. "For the Koch Brothers, the mere millions they'll spend promoting their tax scheme will be a pittance next to the billions worth of tax breaks they hope to secure for themselves and their fellow plutocrats and multinationals," Doggett's statement said.
07.31.2017	Washington, D.C.— Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee Ranking Member responded to the Koch network launching a multi-million dollar campaign to promote tax cuts. They kickoff their latest push at the Newseum today with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and continue thereafter with a conference: Rep. Doggett said: “The Republican opening act of tax cuts for the superrich masquerading as health care repeal may have collapsed, but their billionaire buddies are setting the stage for the main event. Congress may have recessed for August, but billionaire special interests, who demand ever more tax breaks, never go into recess. “Tax breaks funded by more borrowing from the Saudis and the Chinese, tax breaks that widen income inequality, tax breaks that incentivize investment abroad will not grow jobs in America. “For the Koch Brothers, the mere millions they’ll spend promoting their tax scheme will be a pittance next to the billions worth of tax breaks they hope to secure for themselves and their fellow plutocrats and multinationals.”
07.28.2017	Washington, D.C.— Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), Ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, issued the following statement after Senate Republicans failed to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Rep. Doggett said: “Democracy worked – slowly, painfully, with not a vote to spare. Our responsibility is to keep it working by telling the stories of how much harm this ‘mean’ effort would cause our neighbors. Though we have delayed the Republican assault, health care coverage for millions continues to hang by a thread. The real ‘skinny,’ the truth, about the ‘skinny bill’ strategy is that House Republicans had already prepared a ‘martial law’ resolution to immediately jam this sorry bill through the House this very weekend and send on immediately for President Trump’s signature with no public evaluation.” The Republicans’ final bill attempt would have left 16 million more Americans uninsured and caused premiums to rise by 20 percent. ###
07.28.2017	Members of Congress from Texas react to the Senate health care vote: “As long as there is breath in my body, I will be fighting for the working men and women of this country that are being hurt by Obamacare. And I believe it will be repealed. The democratic process is a long process. ... But after all the chest-beating, after all the proud victory laps of the left, I believe this Congress will come back, and in time we will honor our promise.” —U.S.Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas “Democracy worked — slowly, painfully, with not a vote to spare. Our responsibility is to keep it working by telling the stories of how much harm this ‘mean’ effort would cause our neighbors. We must continue demanding accountability from every elected official. ... Though we have delayed the Republican assault, health care coverage for millions continues to hang by a thread.” — U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin “Today’s result in the Senate does not change the fact that Obamacare is bad policy that has resulted in higher premiums, higher deductibles and less choice. I still feel we need to replace it with legislation that lowers premiums, lowers taxes and makes better health care accessible to all.” — U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio “My constituents in Texas and Americans across the country are counting on us. They are sick and tired of the bickering and the lack of productivity here in Washington, D.C., and I don’t blame them one bit. They’re counting on us to free them from some of the Obamacare mandates that force them to make some very tough economic decisions.” — U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas Could not be reached: U.S. Reps. Michael McCaul, R-Austin; John Carter, R-Round Rock; Roger Williams, R-Austin; and Bill Flores, R-Bryan.
07.27.2017	Washington, D.C.— Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), Ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, issued the following statement after the Republican “Big Six” released a joint statement on taxes. Rep. Doggett said: “Despite ongoing problems with their first tax cut for the superrich that masqueraded as health care repeal, Republicans are already preparing the sequel of ‘borrow and tax breaks’ for those at the top. Any tax plan from the self-styled ‘big six’ widening income inequality and borrowing from abroad to reward large multinationals and the superrich should be ‘deep sixed.’ “With today’s press release, Republicans are only throwing out the welcome mat for the Koch Brothers’ gathering next Wednesday in Washington. Their network will be launching a multi-million dollar push to jam through another round of tax breaks. “By finally abandoning their ill-advised border adjustment tax, Republicans have created a trillion dollar hole in their plan. The claim that his multi-trillion dollar tax cut will pay for itself is as incredible as the claim that Mexico will pay for President Trump’s border wall. “Republicans should have learned that hiding a bill under lock and key won’t make it more popular when the American people eventually see what’s in it. Yet six months into this Administration, the elements of the tax plan Republicans are willing to reveal don’t even take up a page. With millions worth of Koch money behind them, they seem determined to jam through their second tax break bill at the expense of middle class and working families.” ###
07.27.2017	Washington, D.C.— Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Democrat on the House Ways & Means Tax Policy Subcommittee spoke on the House Floor today in support of the immigrant community and against Rep. John Carter’s amendment to the Republicans’ so-called “Security Minibus” Appropriations bill, which would begin funding the Trump border wall. Rep. Doggett said: “For our Nation of immigrants, a wall rejects our very history. A wall is not about America leading the world, a wall is about trying to shut off the rest of the world. Ignored today, of course, is the history of how poorly walls have worked to stop desperate people. Most all of those who are coming to America, risking their lives, suffocating in the back of a truck, going over a perilous desert -- they’re not here to cause us harm. They’re not here to do wrong and mooch off our social services. They’re here to escape violence or provide a little hope to their family. And they do it by taking the dirtiest, toughest jobs in our society, as immigrants have done since the very founding of our nation. A wall only makes their path more perilous without offering us more security. “Last year, Trump’s most famous and oft-repeated claim was building a wall that Mexico would pay for. But this year, we just have one broken Trump campaign promise after another. Today, we have confirmation that Trump is just putting taxpayers on the hook to pay for another section of a wall. A wall of broken campaign promises. Instead of a wall, we ought to be building opportunity. Building a Trump boondoggle in the desert at the same time he says we can’t afford medical research, or educational opportunity, or job training, just shows how backward his priorities are. Let’s oppose a wall of ignorance, a wall of prejudice, and create a bridge of opportunity. To achieve both true security and economic growth, we need to reject this narrow-minded approach in favor of comprehensive immigration reform.” You can also view Rep. Doggett’s full remarks here: https://youtu.be/gk7VGCrvVQ4 ###
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump's abrupt decision Wednesday to ban transgender individuals from serving in the military caught key Texas lawmakers by surprise, and drew sharply divergent views. Rep. Mac Thornberry, chairman of the House Armed Services committee, had no idea the decision was coming. "It was a surprise to me, and I think the Pentagon is referring questions to the White House because it was a surprise to them too," said the Clarendon Republican. "I don't know what to think," he said, adding that all he knew was what he saw in the president's early morning tweets. "There are obviously questions to be answered about, 'Now what?'" Thornberry's counterpart, Senate Armed Services Chairman John McCain, R-Ariz., was also shocked, and even more pointed in his dismay at Trump's decision. "There is no reason to force service members who are able to fight, train, and deploy to leave the military — regardless of their gender identity," he said. McCain also chided the president for rolling out such an important policy in such an informal way, saying that "major policy announcements should not be made via Twitter." McCain cited an ongoing Defense Department study on the impacts of transgender health needs on military effectiveness, making the decision premature and inappropriate. Riley Dosh, a West Point military academy student, who said she came out to herself as transgender in April of last year, is shown in Garrison, N.Y., on May 25, 2017. President Donald Trump's announcement on Twitter that transgender people would be barred from the U.S. military "in any capacity" marked a sudden reversal of a policy that had evolved rapidly under the Obama Administration. (LAUREN LANCASTER/The New York Times) Several Texas Republicans vocally supported the effort. "I really appreciate the president taking initiative because it will save a lot of money, because if somebody wants to gender reassign, it ought to be done before," said Tyler Rep. Louie Gohmert. "The military is supposed to be able to be the greatest fighting unit we can have in the world." "Have sex reassignment before you go in, get comfortable with your new gender, but don't make the military take money that could save military lives with up-armoring or bullet proof vest and use that to gender reassign which you may not ever get comfortable with," he added. Rep. Roger Williams, R-Weatherford, also lauded Trump's move. "We need to focus on military readiness without distractions," he said. "National security is a top priority for our nation and our military must remain focused on keeping our country safe and protected at all times." Other conservatives in the Texas delegation echoed that. "The purpose of the military is to defend our country and the expenditures appropriated to the military should be spent on that," Rep. Blake Farenthold, R-Corpus Christi, told The Dallas Morning News. Rep. Pete Olson of Sugar Land, a former Navy pilot, said that "I fully trust our military generals to make the best decision for military readiness and the defense of America. I'm pleased President Trump is listening to his generals and making decisions based on the safety and security of our nation." But Texas Democrats lambasted the reversal of Obama-era policy. "Never mind that transgender Americans are today putting their lives on the line, serving [with] honor, earning praise from their commanders," tweeted Rep. Beto O'Rourke of El Paso, who hopes to unseat Sen. Ted Cruz next year. "Every time America has opened opportunity to those previously denied it, we've become stronger." By late afternoon, Cruz still hadn't weighed in publicly on the policy shift. Rep. Filemon Vela, D-Brownsville, also took to Twitter to criticize Trump, writing: "Shame on @POTUS for banning #transgender individuals from serving in our military and protecting our freedom." Rep. Marc Veasey, D-Dallas, a member of the Armed Services Committee, said he was "appalled" that Trump "would blatantly abandon any American who is willing to lay down their life to defend their fellow citizens." "By prohibiting qualified Americans from serving their country, the President is backtracking on his campaign promise to protect the LGBT community and reduces the pool of capable candidates who volunteer to serve their country," he added. "It's an insult to the transgender community and to our military." Rep. Joaquin Castro, D-San Antonio, asserted that the move will harm the military. "America's armed forces need every patriotic person willing to serve and defend our country," he said in a statement. "The President's policy announcement today is gratuitously discriminatory and will damage our national security." "The master of distraction is at it again," Austin Rep. Lloyd Doggett said in a statement to The Dallas Morning News. "Caught up in the swirl of misconduct surrounding the Trump family, he issues yet another ban to change the subject." The move "does a great disservice to our country. It puts politics over safety," the Democrat added. "We should honor and protect all, no matter their gender, who risk their lives to defend our freedoms." Rep. Henry Cuellar, a Laredo Democrat, said he wanted military leaders, not the president, to make such decisions. He added that if transgender service members are "performing their duty and military folks are fine with that, why are we going to interfere?"
07.25.2017	Washington, D.C.— Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), Ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, issued the following statement after Senate Republicans voted to officially begin debate on their bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA), which would result in millions more Americans becoming uninsured. Rep. Doggett said: “While Republican senators voted to proceed into the great unknown, we know that trouble is on the way. President Trump is demanding that health care access be ripped away from millions. Hatched in darkness, with no open hearings, no amendments, and no respect for the American people, this Republican repeal process puts Americans last. We must keep working together, telling the stories of our many neighbors who will be harmed, and resisting this travesty every day, in every nonviolent way.” ###
07.25.2017	Washington, D.C.— Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways & Means Tax Policy Subcommittee calls out Republican efforts to give a parting gift to big banks before the House adjourns for the August district work period. The Republican bill would block the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) recently released arbitration rule, which protects American consumers and allows them to hold financial institutions accountable in a court of law. You can view Rep. Doggett’s remarks here and below: https://youtu.be/mFhqKasPdLA The House today will consider H.J. Res 111, a resolution under the Congressional Review Act to disapprove of the CFPB’s rule to prohibit banks and lenders from using forced arbitration in consumer finance contracts to block consumer class actions which hold financial institutions accountable in a court of law. This rule is supported by 5.5 million servicemembers represented by the Military Coalition, 29 other servicemember and veteran groups, and over 300 consumer, civil rights, labor, veteran, and non-profit organizations. -- Rep. Lloyd Doggett House Floor July 25, 2017 “I think Republicans are just scared. They’re afraid to leave town this week without doing another favor for Wall Street. And this proposal to undermine consumer rights is the next gift that they want to bestow on the Big Banks. Republicans can never seem to find their voice, no matter how outrageous the latest Trump tweet might be. They cannot pass meaningful legislation on other subjects, but they feel compelled to answer when Wall Street comes a-calling, as it has on this bill. “Only last month, Republicans approved a bill to give President Trump the power to fire the chief cop on the beat – that would be the director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, who Trump could now dump for actually trying to do his job of protecting consumers from abusive financial practices. And of course, we see daily that Trump thinks the White House is just a new venue for the latest sequel of The Apprentice, with him declaring, “You’re fired!” to one person after another, no matter how much damage he does to our national security or to the economic security of families that are struggling. “Well, today’s Republican gift to Wall Street is about denying any effective remedy to those who are abused by big banks. A bank can rightfully go to court if a consumer abuses it, and that happens every day in courts across America with good reason – because it’s not a one-way street. But in the non-negotiable, deceitful fine-print at the back of the contract, the bank can deny the consumer the very same opportunity to go to court if that consumer is abused. It’s called arbitration, but what it really means is if a consumer has been treated wrong, neither a judge nor a jury can ever evaluate the facts and conclude for the consumer. And since usually, the arbitrator depends upon the same bank or group of banks to get repeat business, the arbitrator has an incentive to rule against the consumer and for the bank. Often, arbitration is little better than going to the bank’s own attorney and asking, ‘Do you think your client did anything wrong, and if so, should they do any more than say I’m sorry?’ “Arbitration is the very scheme that Wells Fargo relied upon to obstruct any opportunity for ordinary consumers to try to hold their bank accountable for creating accounts to which they never gave any consent, and charging them for it. Wells Fargo used those arbitration clauses to kick the consumers out of court and to continue its fraud against consumers across America for another two years. And that’s the kind of practice that we’ll have more of if this legislation is approved. “In the Military Lending Act of 2007, Congress showed the good sense to try to protect our servicemembers who are defending our country all over the world, in certain of their loan agreements, in having a lender impose a mandatory arbitration agreement. And today, what we should be doing is supporting similar protections for other Americans who can be exposed to the same type of abuse. “Today’s bill to undermine consumer protection is opposed by the Military Coalition and 29 other servicemember and veterans groups representing millions of people. This sorry bill is also opposed by a number – I think literally hundreds – of consumer, civil rights, labor, and community groups. All we’re saying in rejecting this bill is to give consumers their day in court. Give them the same rights the banks want. In fact, treat consumers as if they were banks, because they should be treated with the same dignity and the same rights, and we do that by rejecting this bill and rejecting it soundly.” ###
07.24.2017	Mariah McClure, a peer educator, talks about goals at a class on teen pregnancy prevention. Her group, EngenderHealth, is losing its federal grant to provide classes at three charter schools in Travis County. CONTRIBUTED BY WILL GALLAGHER / GALLAGHER STUDIOS The notice came to Jenifer DeAtley quietly, without warning, in the form of yet-to-be-explained letters from the federal government that said $4.6 million in funding over the next four years for her organization’s sex education programming was being eliminated. The director of Engender-Health, which runs teen pregnancy prevention programs at three charter schools in eastern Travis County and conducts research, among other services, said she was stunned. “We were quite surprised and really did deeply regret the decision that was made because it translates into young people losing out on these vital services that have lifelong impacts,” DeAtley said. The cuts come as part of more than $200 million in funding slashed by the Trump administration for teen pregnancy prevention and research programs at more than 80 institutions around the country. In Texas, about $8.6 million is being cut. The grants fund “evidence-based programs” that were proved to have made a positive impact through previous research, as well as new evaluations of the best approaches for teen pregnancy prevention, according to the department’s website. The decision by the U.S. DepartmentofHealthandHuman Services cuts short the five-year grants that were awarded by the Obama administration. Grants were supposed to last until 2020, but according to letters such as the one DeAtley received from the Office of Adolescent Health, the grant period will now end in year three. The cuts are especially consequential in a state like Texas, which has the fifth-highest teen pregnancy rate, said Gwen Daverth, CEO and president of the Texas Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy. Texas also has the fourth-highest teen birth rate and highest repeat teen pregnancy rate in the country, according to data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Daverth said evidence-based programs depend primarily on federal funding, as state funding tends to go to “abstinence-only” education that doesn’t necessarily have research backing. In previous years, organizations such as Daverth’s had the opportunity to rally legislators and make their case for grant funding during the budgeting process. The way this funding decision has been made and announced before the 2018 budget has been passed is “highly unusual,” she said. “I think that (federal health officials) were hoping that this would be done quietly,” Daverth said. “It’s up to states like Texas who need these programs the most to voice how important these are to us and to our districts.” DeAtley said she still hasn’t received a clear answer as to why the funding was cut. Ten Democratic Texas legislators, including U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, and U.S. Rep. Joaquín Castro, D-San Antonio, were also left puzzled, leading them to write a letter July 14 to Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price asking for answers. “Terminating an effective program is another shortsighted decision, done by fiat behind closed doors,” Doggett said in a separate statement Friday. “These programs bring life-changing education to our youth, helping those in our community avoid unplanned pregnancies and make healthy decisions.” The letter asks that Price’s office explain why the funding was cut, what would happen if Congress decides to appropriate funding for the program, anyway, and what the department will do with the funding if it is not used in these programs. “The health and well-being of our youth depends on the evidence-based work (Teen Pregnancy Prevention Program) grantees are doing across Texas and the nation,” the letter concludes.
07.24.2017	On Sunday, several local and state officials voiced sympathy after nine migrants died and 30 others were taken to area hospitals as the result of what law enforcement called a “horrific” case of human smuggling. Some argued that Sunday’s incident demonstrated the need to secure the border and pass comprehensive immigration reform, while others simply expressed condolences. Ron Nirenberg, Mayor of San Antonio: “We are still learning about the tragic events that unfolded on our doorstep overnight, which shines a bright light on the plight of immigrants looking for a better life and victims of human trafficking. As we work to coordinate a humanitarian and legal response to this terrible tragedy, I find comfort in the compassionate response of our first-responders, our local medical professionals and the outpouring of support from our community.” Rey Saldaña, San Antonio City Councilman: “It should sadden us all that eight people took their last breath, and dozens more are being treated with serious symptoms of heat exhaustion and dehydration due to a tragic situation that often goes unnoticed.” Gustavo Garcia-Siller, Archbishop of San Antonio: “There are no words to convey the sadness, despair and, yes, even anger we feel today at learning of the completely senseless deaths … This is an incomprehensible tragedy. We pray for these victims and all victims of human smuggling and trafficking; that this monstrous form of modern slavery will come to a quick and final end.” Richard L. Durbin, Jr., U.S. Attorney in the Western District of Texas: “The South Texas heat is punishing this time of year. These people were helpless in the hands of their transporters. Imagine their suffering, trapped in a stifling trailer in 100-plus degree heat.” Thomas Homan, ICE Acting Director: “By any standard, the horrific crime uncovered last night ranks as a stark reminder of why human smuggling networks must be pursued, caught and punished … These networks have repeatedly shown a reckless disregard for those they smuggle, as last night’s case demonstrates.” Greg Abbott, Governor of Texas: The loss of these lives is heartbreaking. Human trafficking is an epidemic that Texas is working to eradicate. To that end, Texas will continue to provide protection for the victims who have been robbed of their most basic rights and bring down the full weight of the law for the perpetrators of this despicable crime. Dan Patrick, Lt. Governor of Texas: “Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of the victims of this horrible tragedy. I have been saying for years no one should have to die to come to America. We need a secure border and legal immigration reform so we control who enters our country and they can come here in dignity. No one should have to risk their life, or lose it, to get here and then live in the shadows.” John Cornyn, U.S. Senator (R-Texas): “Border security will help prevent this Texas tragedy … Compassion is called for. But lawlessness ensures cartels will continue to profit from these tragedies. Status quo is not compassionate.” Joaquin Castro, U.S. Congressman (D-San Antonio): “The smugglers responsible for the incident, who showed no regard for the lives of the people they were transporting, should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.” Lloyd Doggett, U.S. Congressman (D-Austin): “Horrific scene overnight in San Antonio where a human smuggling attempt turned deadly. Prosecute smugglers, pray for survivors and the victims' families, stop the hysteria, reform our broken immigration system.” José Menéndez, Texas State Senator (D-San Antonio): “This morning’s horrific discovery and reckless disregard of those involved in the criminal act of human trafficking is a brutal reminder that comprehensive immigration reform would reduce horrible tragedies like this one. This global issue is senseless, disappointing, tragic and preventable.” Diego Bernal, Texas State Representative (D-San Antonio): “People risking everything for a better life. Heartbreaking.” Tomas Uresti, Texas State Representative (D-San Antonio): “The news today that at least 8 people were found dead in a tractor-trailer in San Antonio is absolutely tragic. My prayers are with the victims and their families, and I hope those who are hospitalized make a full recovery.” Roland Gutierrez, Texas State Representative (D-San Antonio): “Our prayers are with the victims & their families who lost their lives in search of the #AmericanDream.” RAICES, a nonprofit agency that provides legal services to immigrants, also released this statement: “RAICES mourns this tragic loss of life. We hope and pray for the survivors to recover quickly and find peace, safety, and justice. This heartbreaking situation highlights the lengths that migrants will go to seek refuge in the United States. We value, honor, and respect migrant lives.”
07.17.2017	U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett speaks at a town hall meeting at the First United Methodist Church in Austin on Sunday. He said millions could lose Medicaid coverage with GOP plan. TAMIR KALIFA / AMERICAN-STATESMAN U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett holds up a microphone for Jakie Mason, who has cerebral palsy, while she asks him a question during the town hall meeting. Dozens of other people also lined up to ask Doggett questions. PHOTOS BY TAMIR KALIFA/ AMERICAN-STATESMAN Many Medicaid recipients showed up to the town hall meeting to share how the federal program had improved their lives and what a loss in coverage would mean. Dr. Byron Tucker was among the hundreds of people on hand to listen to U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett speak. After the meeting, people were asked to submit their personal health stories on postcards, which they dropped in a box to send to lawmakers. Hundreds of people flooded a downtown Austin church on Sunday for U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett’s town hall meeting with constituents, where they discussed how a proposed Republican health care bill could affect their medical benefits and supplemental programs like Medicaid. Austin’s lone Democratic congressman was hosting his fifth town hall meeting this year at the First United Methodist Church in anticipation of a Senate vote this month on a bill to replace the Affordable Care Act, President Obama’s signature health care legislation. Replacing “Obamacare” has been a priority for President Donald Trump and the GOP-majority Congress. The latest version of the Republican bill would repeal the mandate that requires individuals to carry insurance and for businesses to offer it. It also would allow insurers to offer plans without options like maternity and mental health coverage at cheaper rates. Additionally, it would roll back expansion of Medicaid, which the bill’s critics say would mean deep cuts for those enrolled in the program. “There is not anybody in this room or in this community that is not affected in some way by what is being proposed here,” Doggett said of the legislation. “In all the different versions of this bill, there has been an unrelenting attack on Medicaid.” He said 15 million Americans could lose Medicaid coverage under the new legislation. On Sunday, many Medicaid recipients showed up to the town hall meeting to share how the federal program had improved their lives and what a loss in coverage would mean. Spencer Cook, 30, said he credits Medicaid with giving him the life he has today: a college degree, a good job and a girlfriend. Cook has a genetic disease called spinal muscular atrophy, which affects muscle movement, and has relied on Medicaid his entire life to afford expensive medical care. “Every morning since I was about 10 years old, a stranger has come into my home, lifted my body out of my bed and gotten me ready for the day,” Cook told the crowd. “Medicaid makes that possible. If you are listening to me now, chances are that your taxes have helped pay for that. Thank you.” Unlike other congressional town hall meetings around the country, where attendees have been combative and loud, the people confronting Doggett were impassioned but largely in agreement with the congressman’s position and concerns about the GOP effort. Attendees struggling with lifelong disabilities, veterans and the mentally ill, as well as health care workers, talked about what cuts in Medicaid coverage would mean for them and their industries. Dozens of people also lined up to ask Doggett questions. Many were concerned about how the legislation would protect people with pre- existing conditions because the Affordable Care Act had banned insurance companies from denying coverage on that basis. Debbie Hawkins said her 31-year-old son Shane lost his job and driving privileges when he was diagnosed with brain cancer. Four years after his initial diagnosis, she was concerned what the Republican bill would mean for people like her son with pre-existing conditions. “We are deathly afraid,” Hawkins said. “It’s not that we want a handout. We want protections. And to know that his insurance rates aren’t going to fly through the roof when he needs them the most.” Doggett responded to questions for nearly an hour. After the meeting, people were asked to submit their personal health stories on postcards, which they dropped in a box to send to lawmakers. Others stayed to share anecdotes on video. “It’s inspiring to see that so many people came to this,” Christina Luikart, who struggles with an autoimmune disease and her mother with diabetes, said after the town hall meeting. “I hope that’s an eye opener.” The Congressional Budget Office was expected to release an analysis of the latest GOP bill on Monday, but the move was delayed. The Senate vote that was planned this week also has been pushed back. “This gives us another week to spread the message, explore the defects and sound the alarm,” Doggett said. ‘There is not anybody in this room or in this community that is not affected in some way by what is being proposed here.’
07.14.2017	Austin, Texas — This Sunday, July 16, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett will host a health care town hall to hear stories and answer questions from constituents about how they are impacted by Republican efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Rep. Doggett will be joined by Texas-based health care advocacy groups, including Children’s Defense Fund, Cover Texas Now, Texans with Disabilities Coalition, ADAPT, Indivisible Austin, Young Invincibles, and the Center for Public Policy Priorities. Who: U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett Where: First United Methodist Church Great Hall 1300 Lavaca St. Austin, TX 78701 When: Sunday, July 16, 2017 2:00 PM RSVP: Call the Austin Office: 512-916-5921 or Email: Lloyd.Doggett@mail.house.gov
07.13.2017	Washington, D.C.— Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways & Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, offered the following opening statement during its hearing on tax reform and small businesses. You can view Rep. Doggett’s remarks here and below: https://youtu.be/uJBuJdslhu4 You can view Rep. Doggett’s further remarks here: https://youtu.be/8K7q5b4OdOc Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett House Ways & Means Tax Policy Subcommittee July 13, 2017 “It is very good that we can finally hold the inaugural meeting of this Subcommittee under your leadership. I thank you for responding to my letter requesting that this Subcommittee actually do something this year. I would ask unanimous consent to make that letter requesting hearings part of the record. I know you plan to hold an additional hearing next week, a final hearing before the August recess concerning individual tax, but there are a number of additional topics included in that letter that deserve this Subcommittee’s thorough evaluation and I hope we can do that as well. More than one full year after the announcement of the Republican self-styled ‘Better Way’ Tax Blueprint, it is rather late that we convene, if the true goal is to enact genuine comprehensive tax reform during the few legislative days that remain in the waning months of this year. “We do have agreement that small business is a good place for this committee to begin. So often this Congress has riddled in the many pages of the tax code with provisions that reward the giant enterprises that regularly fill this very room with lobbyists, and it often neglects the small businesses, whose owners are usually too busy to even come to Washington because they’re trying to make a go of their business. These are the businesses that I represent…they don’t have offshore accounts. They don’t have foreign subsidiaries and they aren’t concerned as to whether they will renounce their American citizenship. I believe we should be taking a close look at the preferences, the schemes, and the shenanigans used to shift the tax burden to small business, while many large multinationals on some of their income, through earnings shifting, don’t pay any taxes or next to nothing. “I believe that we should be seeking common bipartisan ground behind genuine tax reform that is designed to encourage entrepreneurship, support small businesses, and grow jobs here in America. I represent a part of Texas in which small business is vital—it’s the part of Texas that doesn’t consider having “a taco truck on every corner,” a political insult as intended but rather a practical convenience. It is a place where we have many valued, traditional small businesses—restaurants, tire shops, construction subcontractors, but also in both San Antonio and Austin, we have a growing number of incubators and accelerators—places like Capitol Factory and Geekdom with a wide range of high tech startups that are creating our economic future right now. “As we look at how to encourage the advancement of these very type of small businesses, I think it’s important to abide by certain principles. “The first of these is that we not finance a tax cut by borrowing from abroad, by asking the Chinese and the Saudis to finance our tax cut. We know that there are mystical, mythological, statements made about how all these tax cuts will pay for themselves. They are just never borne out by history and they’re not even borne out by the Republican economists like Douglas Holtz-Eakin, who has testified before this committee. “Second, I think it’s important to not tilt the playing field even further to advantage some businesses over others. We should avoid picking winners and losers. More tax breaks for large, profitable multinationals that already pay at times only single digits, doesn’t help small businesses. It’s basically just not fair when Pfizer – with its 181 subsidiaries in tax havens – pays a lower tax rate than Davila Pharmacy, which I represent on the West Side of San Antonio. “Finally, I think in tax reform it is important that we not widen the growing income gap in this country. And in that regard, as we look at the specifics of today’s hearing, we do want parity for all business but we do not want to create new loopholes. Not all those that benefit from pass-throughs are genuinely small businesses. Many of them are connected to Wall Street, to some of the wealthiest people in the country. They provide opportunities for even Donald Trump to pay less taxes, if that’s possible. And so we need to look carefully at the proposals that my Republicans colleagues are advancing to ensure that they accomplish the objective that we share in advancing small businesses.” Today’s Tax Policy Subcommittee hearing included the following witnesses: Teresa Meares, President of DGG Uniform and Work Apparel, Scott E. VanderWal, Owner of VanderWal Farms, Rebecca Boenigk, CEO of Neutral Posture, and Chye-Ching Huang, Deputy Director for Federal Tax Policy at the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities. ###
07.12.2017	Republican members of the U.S. House representing Central Texas were silent Tuesday on the revelation that Donald Trump Jr. in 2016 sought damaging information on Hillary Clinton from a Russian government official to benefit his father’s presidential campaign. The American-Statesman requested comment from the seven members of Congress representing Central Texas, as well as the state’s two U.S. senators. Not responding: U.S. Reps. Michael McCaul, R-Austin; Roger Williams, R-Austin; Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio; Bill Flores, R-Bryan; and John Carter, R-Round Rock. A spokeswoman for U.S. Rep. Blake Farenthold, R-Corpus Christi, told the Statesman that the situation is developing and that Farenthold, who represents parts of Bastrop and Caldwell counties, did not want to comment without knowing more. Here’s who commented: “We’re conducting an investigation on the Judiciary and on the Intelligence Committees. I’m a member of both those committees and I’m confident we’ll get to the bottom of it.” — U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas “Washington is obsessed right now. It is the Democratic talking point du jour. But when I go back to Texas, nobody asks about Russia. You know, I’ve held town halls all across the state of Texas, you know how many questions I’ve got on Russia? Zero.” — U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, to reporters on Capitol Hill “Like a House of Cards, the Trump Administration is being exposed as a House of Lies, compromised by the Russians and seriously jeopardizing our national security. As with Trump’s prior repeated duplicities, most Republicans once again sit mute — willing to ignore any wrongdoing in the hope that he will deliver the golden ticket to secure more tax breaks, gratify Wall Street, and deny millions health care access.” — U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin
07.11.2017	Washington, D.C.— Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Democrat on the House Ways & Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, issued the following statement after news reports on Donald Trump’s Jr.’s emails revealed Russian contact prior to the election: “Like a House of Cards, the Trump Administration is being exposed as a House of Lies, compromised by the Russians and seriously jeopardizing our national security. As with Trump’s prior repeated duplicities, most Republicans once again sit mute—willing to ignore any wrongdoing in the hope that he will deliver the golden ticket to secure more tax breaks, gratify Wall Street, and deny millions health care access.”
06.29.2017	Washington, D.C.— Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Democrat on the House Ways & Means Tax Policy Subcommittee and former justice on the Texas Supreme Court, spoke again on the House Floor to express support for local law enforcement against anti-immigrant politically-motivated rhetoric. Rep. Doggett said: “The only sanctuary involved here today is the sanctuary that this sorry bill provides for prejudice. This is the Trump counterpart to the outrageous Senate Bill 4 that Governor Greg Abbott has been promoting in Texas. It all goes back to the rhetoric last year about the ‘bad hombres’ and the attacks on Mexico and Mexicans. I want the ‘bad hombres’ off the street no matter where they come from. “I look to local law enforcement officers to tell me the best way to protect crime. They say maintaining the confidence of the immigrant community is vital and that measures like this would simply have politicians in Washington interfering with and attempting to intimidate local law enforcement officers, doing the exact opposite of what all these speeches claim. Anti-immigrant hysteria… what a way to leave for July 4th from a Congress that has accomplished practically nothing except to attack immigrants as we depart, instead of standing by and supporting local law enforcement and making our communities safe.” You can view Rep. Doggett’s full remarks here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FNVpt4lYoEY&feature=youtu.be ###
06.28.2017	Washington, D.C.— Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Democrat on the House Ways & Means Tax Policy Subcommittee and former justice on the Texas Supreme Court, spoke on the House Floor today in support of the immigrant community and local law enforcement and against the misleadingly-named Republican bill, “No Sanctuary for Criminals Act” and Texas Senate Bill 4 (SB4). Rep. Doggett said: “Both President Trump and his Texas look-alike Governor Greg Abbott want to deny funds and intimidate local governments who rightfully refuse to place politics over public safety. Our police chiefs in San Antonio in Austin… they say that maintaining the trust and confidence of the immigrant community to report crime, to be witnesses concerning crime… that makes us all safer, immigrant and non-immigrant alike. I would say that the only sanctuary this bill provides is a sanctuary for prejudice...We should reject this bill and affirm welcoming cities like mine that are a refuge to anti-immigrant hysteria.” You can view Rep. Doggett’s full remarks here: https://youtu.be/cKU7_7YH9jk ###
06.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), Ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, issued the following statement after Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell announced that the Senate vote on the Republican health care repeal bill would be delayed until after the July 4 congressional recess. Rep. Doggett said: “Injustice delayed is not injustice denied. We must keep working together, telling the stories of our many neighbors who will be harmed, and resisting this travesty every day, in every nonviolent way. This sorry repeal bill was hatched in darkness, but like mold, the more it is exposed to the light of day, the less likely it will be imposed on us. We must remain fully engaged.” The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) yesterday released its cost estimate of the Senate Republicans’ “Better Care Reconciliation Act.” It estimated that under the bill, 22 million more people will become uninsured in 2026, and Medicaid spending would reduce by $772 billion. The CBO also previously estimated that the House Republicans’ so-called “American Health Care Act” would cause 23 more million people to become uninsured, cut Medicaid by $834 billion, and give more than $600 billion in tax breaks to high-income households, drug companies, and insurers. The Republicans’ health care repeal bills are opposed by nearly all health care professional, disease advocacy, and consumer protection groups, including the American Medical Association, American Hospital Association, American Cancer Society, Children’s Hospital Association, and AARP. Stories of constituents who would lose under the Republican repeal plan are available upon request. ###
06.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), Ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, issued the following statement after the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released its cost estimate “score” of the Senate Republicans’ misnamed “Better Care Reconciliation Act.” Rep. Doggett said: “The CBO score confirms that the Republican health repeal bill remains a big loser. The super-rich get more wealth while many get less health. After weeks of secret maneuvering and arm twisting, their big accomplishment is lowering the number of Americans who lose health care coverage from 24 million to 23 million to 22 million. This Republican bill is a giant tax cut for those at the top masquerading as a health care bill. This losing score further evidences the importance of stopping both the Senate rush for repeal this week and the ongoing Trump sabotage of the ACA. “Under their plan, insurance becomes a scheme of fear and fine print—fear that you will not be able to afford your care and fine print to keep you from qualifying for the care you need. The more time the public has to understand this sorry bill, the louder they will protest against it. Keeping the American people in the dark is the least patriotic way to celebrate our Nation’s birthday. Republicans seem intent on making America uninsured again.” The CBO estimates that under the bill, 22 million more people will become uninsured in 2026, and Medicaid spending would reduce by $772 billion. The CBO also previously estimated that the House Republicans’ so-called “American Health Care Act” would cause 23 more million people to become uninsured, cut Medicaid by $834 billion, and give more than $600 billion in tax breaks to high-income households, drug companies, and insurers. The Republicans’ health care repeal bills are opposed by nearly all health care professional, disease advocacy, and consumer protection groups, including the American Medical Association, American Hospital Association, American Cancer Society, Children’s Hospital Association, and AARP. Stories of constituents who would lose under the Republican repeal plan are available upon request. ###
06.26.2017	WASHINGTON - Texas Democrats in Congress remain confident about the 2018 elections despite a stinging loss in a Georgia congressional race last week that highlighted a string of deflating defeats. A remark by U.S. Rep. Filemon Vela, D-Brownsville, that only an “idiot” would believe Democrats can recapture the House under Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi was an isolated eruption in a delegation resolute about maintaining united opposition against Trump administration policies. “I think some of the comments are very harmful and only serve to encourage our opponents,” said U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-San Antonio. Special elections often get over-interpreted, but the GOP success holding a seat in the Atlanta suburbs may have reached new heights in excessive commentary. Republicans trumpeted the 3.9 percent victory by Karen Handel over Democratic newcomer Jon Ossoff in the turf once represented by GOP luminary Newt Gingrich as another sign of their expanding fortunes, and proof that Democrats are clueless when it comes to taking on President Donald Trump in the new political landscape. It was a reality check for Democrats, who invested upwards of $25 million in the contest at the behest of the party’s restless base. A San Antonio phone bank assisted Ossoff’s campaign. Despair by some in the party was compounded by other losses in other contests to replace Trump nominees in South Carolina, Montana and Kansas. Ossoff’s centrist strategy - heavy on fiscal responsibility and light on taking on Trump - added to the second-guessing from Democrats girded for a pitched fight to regain the U.S. House. Nonetheless, many Democrats looking ahead to 2018 took solace in fundamentals of midterm elections and the reality the four special elections were fought in districts they seldom have won. “All those were heavily Republican districts,” asserted U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar, D-Laredo. “I don’t think this is the time to be debating among ourselves,” he said, referring to the call from a small segment of House Democrats to bounce Pelosi, D-Calif., from leadership. “We can always talk about that after 2018. But right now, we have to stay focused, and if President Trump keeps giving us a lift, I think we’re going to be very successful.” Democrats, who need a net pickup of 24 seats to win the House, are buoyed by knowing that the party of a president typically loses seats in midterm elections - an average of nearly 30 House seats over the last 21 midterms. Much of that history was recorded before the extreme gerrymandering of recent times. “There is no doubt that the House is in play,” U.S. Rep. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, told reporters Thursday while trying to buck up demoralized Democrats. Lujan supplemented his words with polls showing support eroding for Republicans in more than two-dozen House districts, presumably due to Trump. Analysts note that the president’s popularity often is a key factor in congressional contests. “The most important leading indicator for 2018 is not the special elections but President Trump’s approval rating, which is 40 percent or lower,” said Alan Abramowitz, of Emory University. “That's a big bright red warning sign that is flashing.” Abramowitz, author of several books on elections, recalled that George W. Bush’s positive rating hovered at about 40 percent in 2006 when Democrats gained 31 seats, twice what they needed to regain control of the chamber. “If Trump’s approval ratings remain that low or go even lower, I think Democrats are going to have a pretty good year in terms of recruitment and have a shot at picking up the House and several governorships,” he said. The view of Trump could well improve if the president enables Republicans to succeed in the goals of repealing the Affordable Care Act and revising the income tax code in ways that lower rates and simplify filing. Yet Democrats thus far haven’t settled on a strategy, as the congressional race in Georgia suggested. The loss fueled an internal debate over what message Democrats ought to present to voters. “There isn’t a message right now, but so what?” said Simon Rosenberg, president and founder of NDN, a Democratic-aligned think tank in Washington “Democrats don’t need to have a message at this point other than they’re fighting to stop the worst excesses of the Trump agenda. That’s all they can do. There’s time to develop a message,” he said. Democrats are banking that pass or fail, the GOP’s newly drawn health insurance legislation unveiled in the Senate last week, with its Medicaid reductions and effective tax cuts for high-income earners, will provide plenty of campaign fodder. As ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means tax-writing panel, Doggett will have opportunities to convey his party’s opposition when the GOP gets serious about tax reform, probably in the fall. Doggett said he thinks Democrats’ main focus needs to be the economy and encouraging job growth. He also believes that fiscal responsibility needs to be a pillar of the Democratic message. “Republicans seem to use fiscal responsibility only as an excuse to undermine social and educational programs that they’ve been opposed to for other reasons to forget it when they come up with huge tax bills,” he said. Cuellar said that in the aftermath of Georgia, Democrats need to make certain they recruit the best candidates to carry the party’s message in districts regarded as winnable. With Barack Obama gone from office, Democrats have no obvious leader to set an agenda. Pelosi would have been better able to fill that role if she hadn’t fallen victim to routine GOP demonization. In Georgia, voters saw the latest round of ads tying the Democratic candidate with Pelosi, similar to what Republicans and aligned super PACS have aired in recent campaigns. “We already have Nancy Pelosi as our congresswoman,” the announcer in one such ad said. “Now you’re going to give us Jon Ossoff as our congressman.” After the Georgia election, the National Republican Congressional Committee sent out a mocking video that began: "To someone who has been such a wonderful contributor, thank you Nancy Pelosi." Trump got into the act with a tweet that included Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer. “I certainly hope the Democrats do not force Nancy P out. That would be very bad for the Republican Party - and please let Cryin’ Chuck stay!” Trump wrote. U.S. Rep. Steve Stivers of Ohio, chairman of the National Republican Committee, remarked that while Pelosi “motivates” Republicans, the Democrats’ problem has to do with their message. “They are talking about distractions, they’re talking about obstruction, they’re talking about resistance while Karen Handel was talking about fixing our economy, getting people back to work, rebuilding our infrastructure and fixing health care,” he said on Fox News. Pelosi, 77, replied defiantly Thursday to criticism from Vela and others. “My decision about how long I stay is not up to them,” she said at a news conference. "So you want me to sing my praises, is that what you’re saying? Well, I’m a master legislator. I’m a strategic, politically astute leader." Her words signaled that she plans to stick around, which appears acceptable to a majority of Democrats who remain hopeful about 2018. “I don’t think divisions are as great as perhaps have been reported,” Doggett said. "We need to stay focused on getting a Democratic House majority next year. That's the one check we have on Trump and the excesses that are out there."
06.23.2017	By Robert Pear and Thomas Kaplan, New York Times June 22, 2017 Updated: June 22, 2017 8:22pm WASHINGTON — Senate Republicans, who’ve promised to repeal the Affordable Care Act for seven years, took a major step toward that goal, unveiling a bill Thursday to make deep cuts in Medicaid and end the mandate that most Americans have health insurance. The 142-page bill would create a new system of federal tax credits to help people buy health insurance, while offering states the ability to drop many of the benefits required by the Affordable Care Act, like maternity care, emergency services and mental health treatment. But the measure landed in rough seas ahead of a vote that Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky wants next week. Four conservative senators — Ted Cruz of Texas, Rand Paul of Kentucky, Mike Lee of Utah and Ron Johnson of Wisconsin — announced they’d would oppose it without changes. Their votes are more than enough to bring it down. “It does not appear this draft as written will accomplish the most important promise that we made to Americans: to repeal Obamacare and lower their health care costs,” the four wrote in a joint statement. The loss of four GOP senators could be fatal for the Better Care Reconciliation Act of 2017. With a 52-48 majority in the Senate, Republicans only can afford to lose two GOP votes, assuming Vice President Mike Pence would provide the tie-breaker in a 50-50 split. Democrats are uniformly opposed to the health care rewrite. The dissenters’ statement laid down a conservative marker: “There are provisions in this draft that represent an improvement to our current health care system, but it does not appear this draft as written will accomplish the most important promise that we made to Americans: to repeal Obamacare and lower their health care costs.” More moderate Republican senators, such as Dean Heller of Nevada, expressed their own qualms, as did the American Hospital Association, the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network and the Association of American Medical Colleges. “We are extremely disappointed by the Senate bill released today,” the medical colleges association wrote. “Despite promises to the contrary, it will leave millions of people without health coverage, and others with only bare-bones plans that will be insufficient to properly address their needs.” Once promised as a top-to-bottom revamp of the health bill passed by the House last month, the Senate bill instead maintains its structure, with modest adjustments. The Senate version is, in some respects, more moderate than the House bill, offering more financial assistance to some lower-income people to help them defray the rapidly rising cost of private health insurance. But the Senate bill would make subsidies less generous than under current law. It would lower the income limit for receiving subsidies to cover insurance premiums to 350 percent of the poverty level, or about $42,000 for an individual, from 400 percent. Older people could be disproportionately hurt because they pay more for insurance in general. Both chambers’ bills would allow insurers to charge older people five times as much as younger ones; the limit now is three times. The Senate measure, like the House bill, would phase out the extra money the federal government has provided to states as an incentive to expand eligibility for Medicaid. And like the House measure, it would put the entire Medicaid program on a budget, ending the open-ended entitlement that now exists. It also would repeal most of the tax increases imposed by the Affordable Care Act — a capital gains tax cut for the affluent would be retroactive for this year — to pay for expanded coverage. In effect, it would hand a broad tax cut to the affluent in a measure that also would slice billions of dollars from Medicaid, a health care program that serves 1 in 5 Americans, not only the poor but almost two-thirds of people in nursing homes. The bill, drafted in secret, is likely to come to the Senate floor next week, and could come to a vote after 20 hours of debate. Democrats and some insurers blame the Republicans and President Donald Trump for sabotaging the ACA, in part by threatening to withhold subsidies used to help pay for deductibles and co-payments for millions of poor people covered by the law. And former President Barack Obama, who has been hesitant to speak up on political issues since leaving office, waded forcefully into the health care debate Thursday, saying the Senate proposal showed a “fundamental meanness” that would harm anyone who gets old, gets sick or starts a family. “The Senate bill, unveiled today, is not a health care bill,” Obama wrote on his Facebook page. “It’s a massive transfer of wealth from middle-class and poor families to the richest people in America. It hands enormous tax cuts to the rich and to the drug and insurance industries, paid for by cutting health care for everybody else.” Texas Sen. John Cornyn, the Senate’s No. 2 Republican, acknowledged the plan falls short of the long-term GOP goal of repealing Obamacare root and branch. “We are constrained by budget rules, and we’ll do the very best we can under the circumstances,” he told Texas reporters on the eve of the plan’s rollout. He also blamed the Democrats for “being unwilling to lift a finger.” Democrats lined up to slam the bill, with Minority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York highlighting President Donald Trump’s recent description of the earlier House bill as “mean.” Schumer displayed a poster denoting the Senate bill is “meaner.” U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-San Antonio, also recalled the president’s words in a statement denouncing the bill. “What Trump called a ‘mean, mean, mean’ bill just got meaner,” he said. “If you expect to grow old, get sick or have a child, you’re a loser under this bill. Older Americans will pay more and get less than now. Those with pre-existing conditions will likely be unable to buy affordable insurance. Working families who rely on Medicaid will be denied coverage. Women will lose control over personal health decisions through a bill drafted by a handful of Republican men.” U.S. Rep. Joaquin Castro, D-San Antonio, said the GOP proposal “would be a disaster for Texans. It was drafted in secret by just 13 guys in the Senate, and then made public only after getting lobbyists’ approval. The bill will drive costs up, strip coverage for millions, and hurt senior citizens and working families the most.” In the short term, the possible electoral consequences are more muted in the Senate than in the House, as only two of the Senate Republicans who face re-election next year, Heller and Jeff Flake of Arizona, are seen as vulnerable. But Republican leaders still must contend with internal divisions that will be difficult to overcome. Numerous Republican senators from states that expanded Medicaid are concerned about how a rollback of the program could affect their constituents, and they face pressure from governors back home. Kevin Diaz and Bill Lambrecht of the Hearst D.C. Bureau contributed to this report.
06.21.2017	For the 10th time in the last several months, Republicans on Wednesday blocked a Democratic resolution offered on the House floor requesting President Trump’s tax returns. The measure was defeated on a procedural vote of 227-188 that fell largely along party lines. The resolution was offered by Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), the top Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee’s tax policy subcommittee. It would have directed the House to request Trump’s personal tax returns and the returns of the president’s business entities. It also would have called on the House to delay the consideration of tax-reform legislation until Trump’s returns were obtained. “This resolution seeks to protect the integrity of the proceedings of the House,” Doggett said. He offered the measure as “privileged,” which would require the House action. However, Rep. Mike Simpson (R-Idaho), who was presiding over the House, determined that the resolution wasn’t privileged. The House took a roll-call vote on a motion to table an appeal of that ruling. Democrats have undertaken a number of efforts to demand Trump’s tax returns since the president’s inauguration. They argue that viewing Trump’s returns could allow the public to learn more about any ties to Russia and to find out how Trump might personally benefit from any tax-reform legislation. “It’s important for us to have the returns on tax reform, it’s important to have it on the Russia investigation,” Doggett said. But Republican lawmakers haven't offered much support for the efforts, even though some GOP lawmakers think Trump should release his tax returns. Several House Republicans have said that Trump should voluntarily disclose his returns but that Congress shouldn’t force their disclosure. Trump has cited an IRS audit as the reason why he has not released his returns, breaking with decades of precedent, though the IRS has said an audit does not prevent the release of personal tax information. Lawyers for Trump said that the president’s last 10 years of tax returns don’t show income from Russian sources, except in a few circumstances.
06.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), Ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, reacts to Speaker Ryan’s address on Republican tax plans: “Since their rollout a year ago of this campaign gimmick, Republicans have been afraid to expose their Blueprint to scrutiny. What they now call ‘full speed ahead’ did not produce a public hearing for 11 months to even begin evaluating its many shortcomings. Without their misbegotten border adjustment tax, now abandoned by the Trump Administration, their Blueprint has a $1 trillion deficit gap and an even greater credibility gap. Apparently they have yet to decide whether to largely pursue the same approach of denying public participation – forcing through this tax bill as they did in getting partisan support for their still uncompleted, initial special interest health tax break bill. “The Republican Blueprint is certainly a ‘better way’ to widen the income gap while exploding the national debt. It is both the wrong way for tax policy and the wrong way to legislate tax reform. Because Republicans view Trump as their golden ticket to enacting more prized tax breaks, their lips remain sealed regarding his dangerous, mercurial bumbling, conflicts of interest, tax returns cover-up, and apparent obstruction of justice.” Rep. Doggett previously offered a “privileged resolution” that would require the House of Representatives to immediately request and evaluate the President’s personal and business tax returns prior to consideration of tax legislation. That motion will be considered tomorrow. A letter concerning the failure of the Tax Policy Subcommittee to even hold an organizational meeting this year as well as the tax reform topics which it should be addressing, is attached. ###
06.20.2017	“I am an AmeriCorps member, and I will get things done.”- AmeriCorps Pledge One million strong – In the early 1990s, the National Community Service Act was signed into law. Just over 15 years later, AmeriCorps swore in its one millionth member with that very pledge— a simple commitment to get the hard things done. Selfless, patriotic and resourceful, those that serve with AmeriCorps and other programs managed by the Corporation for National and Community Service represent the best of our nation. I am pleased that a few AmeriCorps alumni have worked in my Washington office, contributing a unique perspective from their community service. Tradition of service threatened – President Trump’s proposed budget cuts include the elimination of the Corporation for National and Community Service, AmeriCorps and Senior Corps. Cutting funding to these crucial investments will not make American great; it will weaken our country’s commitment to service. As a member of the National Service Congressional Caucus, I have publicly opposed President Trump’s disastrous budget proposal – it threatens our national and economic security by diverting funding away from smart investments in our economy, like public education, healthcare and national service. To show my continued support for each AmeriCorps service member, I recently urged the House Appropriations Committee to maintain and strengthen AmeriCorps funding. Federal support for national service also generates support from the private sector. According to a report from Columbia University, for every $10 in federal money spent, another $15 is separately raised from private sources to fund AmeriCorps partnerships across the country. Those same researchers also estimated that every dollar invested in national service programs results in almost four dollars in return to society. AmeriCorps members’ service has greatly benefitted their own futures as well— the Corporation for National and Community Service recently found that participation in community service by unemployed Americans increases the likelihood they will obtain employment by 26 percent. If you have ever had the pleasure of seeing an AmeriCorps member at work, you understand the ways in which they multiply their impact. Most AmeriCorps members receive only a modest living allowance and an education award to help pay for school, but across the country, AmeriCorps members are providing job training, building homes, teaching in schools and responding to emergencies. While the Trump Administration is pressuring Congress to cut federal spending, investments in national service are a mere fraction of the federal budget. Eliminating these programs will not alleviate the federal deficit in an impactful way, but would drastically harm the communities that these programs serve. Deep in the heart – Since its inception, federal AmeriCorps programs have provided more than 1.4 billion hours of service to communities and earned $3.3 billion in scholarships to pay for college. The State of Texas hosts 28 unique AmeriCorps programs, and AmeriCorps members are expected to serve over 2.7 million hours to our state this year alone. Earlier this month, I announced over $2 million for City Year San Antonio from the CNCS with several Members of the San Antonio delegation. I have seen firsthand the difference these young people are making in San Antonio, like at Martin Luther King Academy on our City’s East Side. While corps members in City Year San Antonio may provide mentorship, tutoring and school climate support to struggling students who, statistics say, are less likely to finish college than their wealthier peers, others may choose to serve with the College Advising Corps to provide college advising to first-generation, underrepresented students. Teach For America Corps members will teach full-time in San Antonio’s low-income schools, committed to providing a transformational education. AmeriCorps often leads to a lifetime of community service. But President Trump, through his cruel budget, would terminate this success and similar initiatives across America. To continue serving San Antonio, we must resist. I represent both the families living in our most vulnerable communities and also those who work in our neighborhoods to serve them. No matter which pathway AmeriCorps members select, they make an undeniable impact in our communities and do the work that inspires hope in an uncertain political climate. I pledge, like the AmeriCorps members throughout my district, that I will work to “get things done” and protect these vital programs from elimination.
06.19.2017	SAN ANTONIO - Members of the San Antonio Food Bank and Feeding Texas joined Rep. Lloyd Doggett to urge members of the Texas Congressional Delegation to reject President Donald Trump’s budget proposal. The proposed budget threatens to dramatically increase the number of Texans at risk of hunger. It would cut $193 billion from the food stamp program. Doggett said the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program is a lifeline for children, seniors, veterans and people with disabilities who are facing hard times. “I believe SNAP has been honored as a really successful anti-poverty program, and unlike some government programs, it is an extremely efficient program and it administers the assistance to make sure people have a good, healthy meal to eat in a way that is very cost-effective,” Doggett said. Congress still has to approve the president’s budget plan before it can go into effect.
06.16.2017	Trump administration officials will huddle Friday as part of a push to issue an executive order addressing rising drug prices, but few are expecting its punch to match the president's often blistering rhetoric about the pharmaceutical industry. President Donald Trump made drug costs a prominent issue during his campaign and beefed up his criticisms after the election, saying in January that the industry was "getting away with murder." Six months later, the industry isn't thrilled about the contemplated administration action — but it's no longer in a state of panic. A primary reason: Expectations are that the White House won't endorse tactics pharma fears most, such as major changes to drug payments in Medicare parts B or D, or allowing broad importation of medicines from countries where they typically sell for less. "Our industry sources indicate that pharma expects it has successfully shifted the dialogue from the high price of innovation to transparency and other parts of the supply chain. As such, several drug company executives have expressed the belief that Trump's drug price approach will not include drug reimportation and Medicare negotiation of drug prices," Wells Fargo analyst David Maris wrote in a note to investors Thursday evening. Sources within the administration said the players along the health supply chain that could be hit hardest will be the pharmacy benefits managers, who administer drug benefits for employers and health plans. The industry's confidence is derived from the presence of key allies in the White House. Joe Grogan, OMB's director of health programs, is working on the executive order, according to multiple sources inside and outside of the government. Grogan spent the last five years as the head of federal affairs for Gilead Sciences — the drug company that helped ignite the drug pricing debate in 2013, when it set the price of a new hepatitis C treatment at more than $80,000. Grogan does not have a White House ethics waiver, meaning that under a policy implemented in January, he is supposed to recuse himself from issues he lobbied on in recent years. He's not the only administration official who doesn't see eye-to-eye with Trump on drug pricing. HHS Secretary Tom Price, for example, was part of the congressional effort to kill the Obama administration's last-ditch attempt to tackle drug pricing last year through a Medicare Part B demonstration project. A draft of the executive order has been circulating around the White House and HHS, but it is a work in progress and there's disagreement among White House officials over how to proceed. A White House spokesperson said Friday's meeting is "part of the ongoing discussions to reduce the burden of the high cost of drug prescriptions and unleash a wave of innovation to develop cures and treatments for patients." One side within the administration includes Grogan and like-minded individuals who are more in tune with the drug industry point of view. Others have held more of a grudge against pharma — which didn't support Trump during his campaign — and are less inclined to protect the industry. Attending the meeting will be Price, CMS Administrator Seema Verma and FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb. Chief economic advisor Gary Cohn, assistant to the president Reed Cordish, and representatives from the Health Resources and Services Administration — which administers the 340B Drug Discount Program — and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative are also expected to attend the meeting. There's a sense among some that the White House may decide to do a "check-the-box" type of exercise, issuing an order that calls for various parts of the government like FDA, CMS and HRSA to work on drug pricing measures. That would demonstrate a commitment to the issue while more nuanced policies are being crafted. If the order goes into more specifics, most expect it will include a directive for the government to allow more value-based drug pricing arrangements — agreements between insurers and manufacturers that tie payment for a drug to how well it works. It's an idea long promoted by the drug industry itself. Also expected are reforms to 340B, but given the program's large expansion under the Affordable Care Act, policy experts say there are few things Trump could do to expand the program. The other possibility is that the administration will address the oft-voiced criticism that hospitals and clinics that benefit from low 340B prices don't pass on the discounts to patients. This could resonate with consumers but wouldn't upset the industry. Trump is close to Rep. Chris Collins (R-N.Y.), who has drafted legislation on the issue that could be adapted. The pharma trade policies the administration is looking at are also expected to be relatively industry-friendly, including taking steps to reward U.S. manufacturing or making a stronger effort to go after countries that violate intellectual property protections on drug pricing. Also said to be under consideration are proposals that would grant more monopoly power for innovative medicines or allow companies more flexibly to amend drug patents. The administration is also said to be looking at changes to fees that pharmacy benefits managers impose on pharmacies. Some congressional Democrats are preparing for an industry-friendly package, based on accounts from allies outside the government who are working on drug pricing and have not been consulted on the order. "Another broken Trump promise seems to be in the making, with Medicare negotiation abandoned in favor of Big Pharma's wish list," Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), who co-chairs the Prescription Drug Task Force, told POLITICO. "In January, two weeks after declaring that drugmakers were 'getting away with murder,' Trump was cozying up to pharmaceutical executives at the White House. He should be using executive power now to bring down prices, not to promote more restrictive government-approved monopolies upon which Big Pharma relies." Even if the Trump team wanted to mount an all-out assault on pharma, there are limits to what they could accomplish without congressional support. That's particularly true when it comes to Medicare and Medicaid — and there few signs Republicans in Congress want to take any major action against the industry. But sources say Trump could still make some bold moves. For example, he could make tweaks to the number of protected classes in Medicare Part D, giving insurance companies more leverage to deny coverage for certain medicines and bring down pricing. He could also use the authority of Medicare's Innovation Center to test out new methods to pay for drugs, including the "government bidding" idea he has floated for Medicare Part B.
06.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Ways & means Tax Policy Subcommittee, is offering a "privileged resolution" that would require the House of Representatives to immediately request the President's tax returns and those of his businesses. His resolution, which must be considered within two legislative days, would also postpone consideration of any tax reform legislation until the President's tax returns are obtained. The House Ways and Means Committee has the authority to obtain the President’s tax returns under section 6103 of the Tax Code. If this “privileged resolution” were approved, it would launch the process of reviewing those tax returns in an Executive Session of the Ways and Means Committee, which could vote to release the returns to the public. Rep. Doggett has filed three separate amendments in the Ways and Means Committee to obtain President Trump’s tax returns – on February 14, March 8, and March 28. The Committee voted all three times along party lines to continue to cover-up the President’s tax returns, and the House has refused nine times to act on President Trump’s tax returns. You can view Rep. Doggett’s resolution below. RESOLUTION Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that the President shall immediately disclose his tax return information to the House of Representatives and the American people. Whereas, President Nixon explained that “People have got to know whether or not their President is a crook,” when he invited the Joint Committee on Taxation to audit his returns after the Internal Revenue Service gave him an unwarranted tax discount; Whereas, according to the Tax History Project, every President since Gerald Ford has disclosed his tax return information to the public; Whereas, the Chairmen of the Committee on Ways and Means, Joint Committee on Taxation, and the Committee on Finance have the authority to request the President’s tax returns under section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; Whereas, pursuant to article I, section 7, clause 1 of the Constitution, often referred to as the Origination Clause, the House of Representatives has the sole authority to initiate legislation that raises revenue for the national Government, and the Committee on Ways and Means is considering a comprehensive reform of the tax code; Whereas, according to media reports analyzing President Trump’s leaked 2005 tax return, we know that had his own tax plan been in place, he would have paid an estimated mere 3.48 percent rate instead of a 24 percent rate, saving him $31.3 million; Whereas, according to the New York Times, the President used a legally dubious tax maneuver in 1995 that could have allowed him to avoid paying any Federal taxes for 18 years; Whereas, President Trump holds “interests as the sole or principal owner in approximately 500 separate entities,” according to his attorneys, and the President’s tax plan proposes to cut the tax rate on such “pass-through” entities from 39.6 percent to 15 percent; Whereas, one analysis estimated that President Trump would personally save $6.7 million from two tax breaks included in the Republicans’ first tax cut, which they misleadingly call the American Health Care Act; Whereas, without the President’s tax returns, the American people cannot determine how much he will personally benefit from proposed changes to the tax code; Whereas, an ABCNews/Washington Post poll found that 74 percent of Americans would like President Trump to disclose his tax returns and the most-signed petition on the White House website calls for the release of the President’s tax return information to verify compliance with the Emoluments Clause, with more than 1,097,000 signatures as of date of this resolution; Whereas, disclosure of the President’s tax returns could help those investigating Russian influence in the 2016 election better understand the President’s financial ties to the Russian Federation, Russian businesses, and Russian individuals; Whereas, after breaking his pledge to make his tax returns available, President Trump instead presented a one page letter from a law firm giving him a clean bill of health on any business dealings with Russians, but failed to note that the very same law firm boasted of the “prestigious honor” of being named “Russia Law Firm of the Year” for 2016; Whereas, former Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey, before he was fired by President Trump, publicly confirmed that the Bureau has been investigating potential ties between President Trump’s campaign and Russia since July, and that the Russian President Vladimir Putin favored a Trump electoral victory; Whereas, President Trump’s son-in-law and senior advisor, Jared Kushner, met during the presidential transition at the behest of the Russian ambassador with Sergey N. Gorkov, a graduate of a school run by the successor to the KGB and who was appointed by Vladimir Putin to head a Russian state-owned bank that is on the U.S. sanctions list; Whereas, Mr. Kushner proposed establishing a secret back channel of communications directly to Vladimir Putin, even considering the use of Russian embassy facilities to do so; Whereas, Attorney General Jeff Sessions falsely stated during his Senate confirmation hearing that he “did not have communications with the Russians,” when in fact he met at least twice during the campaign with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak; Whereas, former Director Comey testified before the Senate Intelligence Committee that President Trump had asked him in the Oval office about “letting Flynn go,” referring to the investigation into former National Security Advisor Michel Flynn’s business ties to Russia; Whereas, President Trump stated on May 11, 2017 that he had decided that he was going to fire Comey because of “this Russia thing”; Whereas, former Director Comey, on June 8, 2017 testified that Special Counsel Robert Mueller could investigate whether President Trump’s actions with regard to Director Comey and the Flynn investigation constituted obstruction of justice; Whereas, in 2013, President Trump said “Well, I’ve done a lot of business with the Russians. They’re smart and they’re tough,” and President Trump’s son, Donald Trump, Jr., told a news outlet in 2008 that “Russians make up a pretty disproportionate cross-section of a lot of our assets”; Whereas, against the advice of ethics attorneys and the nonpartisan Office of Government Ethics, the President has refused to divest his ownership stake in his businesses; Whereas, the Director of the nonpartisan Office of Government Ethics said that the President’s plan to transfer his business holdings to a trust managed by family members is “meaningless” and “does not meet the standards that…every President in the past four decades has met”; Whereas, the Emoluments Clause was included in the Constitution for the express purpose of preventing Federal officials from accepting any “present, Emolument, Office, or Title…from any King, Prince, or foreign state”; Whereas, the Trump International Hotel in Washington, D.C., has hired a “director of diplomatic sales” to generate high-priced business among foreign leaders and diplomatic delegations; Whereas, the Joint Committee on Taxation reviewed the tax returns of President Richard Nixon in 1974 and made the information public; Whereas, the Committee on Ways and Means used the authority under section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 in 2014 to make public the confidential tax information of 51 taxpayers; Whereas, the Committee on Ways and Means has now voted three times along party lines to continue to cover-up President Trump’s tax returns; Whereas, the House of Representatives has now refused nine times to act on President Trump’s tax returns; Whereas, the American people have the right to know whether or not their President is operating under conflicts of interest related to international affairs, tax reform, Government contracts, or otherwise; Whereas, the House of Representatives undermines its dignity and the integrity of its proceedings by continuing the cover-up of President Trump’s tax returns: Now, therefore, be it: Resolved, That the House of Representatives shall— Immediately request the tax return and return information of Donald J. Trump for tax years 2006 through 2015, as provided under section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as well as the tax return (and return information with respect to the President’s businesses) of each business entity disclosed by Donald J. Trump on his Office of Government Ethics Form 278e, specifically each corporation and each partnership (within the meaning of subchapter K of chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) where he is listed as an officer, director, or equivalent, or exercises working control; and Postpone consideration of tax reform legislation until the elected Representatives of the American people in this House have obtained President Trump’s tax returns and return information to ascertain how any changes to the tax code might financially benefit the President. ###
06.04.2017	Hundreds of people gathered at Austin City Hall on Saturday to demand an independent investigation of President Donald Trump and his associates’ possible ties to Russia. The event in the sweltering heat was one of more than 100 other such “March for Truth” demonstrations scheduled throughout the country and world on June 3. Rallygoers called for an independent commission to investigate Russian ties, adequate resources for nonpartisan congressional investigations, the release of Trump’s tax returns and prosecution of any confirmed crimes. Bearing signs reading “Stop The Lying,” “Just Give Us Some Truth” and “Independent Investigation,” protesters filled about a dozen steps of the stone risers at City Hall and created a circle surrounding the speakers on the plaza. “We’re dealing with dishonesty on a scale that we’ve rarely seen in this country,” said speaker Kevin Lenau, president of the Austin Democratic Veterans. “That’s why we are here. We know that the truth is being kept from us, and we simply can’t stand for it.” Mayor Steve Adler also spoke at the rally, and organizers read a statement from U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin. Doggett’s statement noted that he repeatedly has called for an independent bipartisan commission to investigate Russian interference in the 2016 election and had filed an amendment in February to obtain President Trump’s tax returns that was scrapped by Republicans. “With our democracy at stake, we will get to the bottom of these Russian collusion allegations,” Doggett said. “We will lift the coverup. We will shed light where there is darkness.” Lisa Blackwell, 38, carried a sign that read “The truth will set you free!” and said she came to the rally to show elected officials that she and many others want answers on any possible collusion or other crimes. “We just want honesty, and country before party,” Blackwell said. “It doesn’t matter if you’re Democrat, Republican, they should always put their constituents first.” Blackwell said she was glad to see that there are already investigations on the federal level, but she wanted to see more urgency and faster results. Chris Neal, 34, of Northwest Austin, held a sign with a screen shot of a 2013 tweet by Trump that read: “I wonder how much our ‘leaders’ have promised, or given, Russia in order for them to behave and not make the U.S. look even worse?” Neal said his ultimate goal is to see Trump impeached. “We just wanted to make sure that … everybody was aware, if they weren’t already, of things like this, out of his own mouth, that it’s just a big ball of hypocrisy,” Neal said. “It’s really hard to trust someone when they lie constantly. … I think it’s pretty clear what’s going on.”
06.02.2017	Deep in the heart of America’s top emitting state for greenhouse gases, reaction to President Trump’s decision to drop out of the Paris climate accord broke largely along ideological and party lines. Trump announced Thursday that the U.S. would begin a process of withdrawing from the Paris deal signed by more than 190 countries. The U.S. made a non-binding pledge in 2015 to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 26 to 28 percent from 2005 levels by 2020. Trump campaigned on a promise that he would “cancel” the deal. On Thursday, he said he would not implement any of its measures and begin “negotiations to re-enter either the Paris accord or an entirely new transaction on terms that are fair to the United States.” The agreement is meant to keep a rise in average global temperatures below 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit, the threshold at which many scientists predict climate change’s effects will become severe. Emissions from fossil fuels like coal, oil and natural gas have already caused a 1.68-degree rise since the dawn of the industrial era, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. United States’ withdrawal from the Paris agreement “represents further weakening of our standing as a leader of nations,” U.S. Rep. Joaquin Castro, D-San Antonio, said in a Twitter post. Luke Metzger, director of Austin-based environmental group Environment Texas, said the administration’s decisions leave a vacuum that others must now fill. “If national leadership chooses to ignore that reality, then local governments, businesses and institutions must step in to fill the leadership void to show the world that Americans will do our part to address the climate crisis,” he said. Soon after Trump’s speech, the U.S. Conference of Mayors issued a statement strongly opposing withdrawal from the accord, which it said would help the U.S. become “energy independent, self-reliant and resilient.” San Antonio Mayor Ivy Taylor did not say whether she agreed with Trump’s decision. In a statement, she said she had “learned not to wait on Washington, D.C., to address our challenges here in San Antonio.” “The City Council and I made it clear by approving SA Tomorrow and the sustainability element of the plan that clean air, clean water and a healthy environment are important to San Antonio,” she said, referring to the comprehensive plan adopted last year. Taylor’s opponent in the mayoral race, District 8 Councilman Ron Nirenberg, did not respond to a text and phone call Thursday afternoon. The decision drew swift condemnation from U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, and a member of the House Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition and the Safe Climate Caucus. “At one time, conservation was a conservative value, but repeated Republican denial of science means more disease, flooding, and extreme weather,” he said. Some of the strongest attacks in Congress on climate science have come from Rep. Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio, chairman of the House Science Committee. “By withdrawing from the Paris climate agreement, President Trump has freed America from a bad deal that would cost billions of dollars but have little significant environmental benefit,” Smith said in a statement. In his speech, Trump talked about standing up for American workers whose livelihoods were threatened by the agreement. Texas Republican Sens. John Cornyn and Ted Cruz echoed that sentiment in their praise of the president. “This is great news for family budgets, which under the Obama Paris plan would have seen significant increases in costs for utilities and nearly everything powered by fossil fuels,” Cruz said in a Facebook post. Joshua Busby, a University of Texas associate professor who has written extensively about U.S. and international climate policy, said leaving the agreement is a “self-inflicted injury akin to punching ourselves in the face.” “In fact, the U.S. would do even better economically by pursuing clean energy,” Busby said in an email. “There are hundreds of thousands more jobs in solar and wind than in the coal sector. Natural gas, which is a cleaner burning fuel than coal, is also important.”
05.30.2017	WASHINGTON — Hundreds of independent pharmacists swarmed the House and Senate office buildings one recent afternoon, climbing the marble staircases as they rushed from one appointment to the next, pitching lawmakers on their plan to rein in the soaring drug prices that have enraged American consumers. As they crowded into lawmakers’ offices, describing themselves as the industry’s “white hats,” they pointed a finger at pharmacy benefit managers like Express Scripts and CVS Health, which handle the drug coverage of millions of Americans. “Want to reduce prescription drug costs?” the pharmacists argued during their visits. “Pay attention to the middlemen.” A civil war has broken out among the most powerful players in the pharmaceutical industry — including brand-name and generic drug makers, and even your local pharmacists — with each blaming others for the rising price of medicine. It is an industry that was already spending nearly double what other business sectors in the United States economy allocate on lobbying, and those sums continue to rise. President Trump has only heightened anxiety by accusing the drug industry of “getting away with murder,” even though he has not weighed in with his own proposal. For now, lawmakers are facing an almost daily assault. “Everyone is very eager to maximize their profits and get a piece of the pie, and sorting it all out is complicated,” said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine. The question is whether a rare confluence of public outrage, political will and presidential leadership can bring about a meaningful change that will slow the drain on consumers’ pocketbooks. “You remember that old photograph of the Three Stooges, their faces cracked sideways and they are pointing at each other?” asked Chester Davis Jr., the president of the Association for Accessible Medicines, sitting in the basement cafeteria of the Russell Senate Office Building at the start of a day in which he would make his own pitches on behalf of generic drugmakers. “Everyone is doing the finger-pointing, when in fact there is a lot of blame to go around.” In polls, Democrats and Republicans alike have lowering drug prices near the top of their health care priorities. Public anger has risen along with the skyrocketing prices for many essential medicines — insulin for diabetes, for example, and EpiPens for severe allergic reactions. But will efforts to reduce drug costs surmount the industry’s aggressive lobbying and campaign contributions? “It’s still a very uphill fight,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas, who like Ms. Collins has been pushing Congress to increase competition and lower prices, “given the millions they have spent on lobbying, advertising and campaign contributions.” With billions in profit on the line, the pharmaceutical and health products industry has already spent $78 million on lobbying in the first quarter of this year, a 14 percent jump over last year, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. The industry pays some 1,100 lobbyists — more than two for each member of Congress. In the 2016 election cycle, the industry poured more than $58 million into the election campaigns of members of Congress and presidential candidates, as well as other political causes, the Center for Responsive Politics data shows. That was the biggest investment in the industry’s history and a 20 percent jump from the last presidential election cycle in 2012. No single proposal has emerged as a clear winner in the bid to lower prices. Mr. Trump has sent conflicting signals: On one hand, he has accused the industry of “price fixing” and has said the government should be allowed to negotiate the price of drugs covered by Medicare. At other times, he has talked about rolling back regulations and named an industry-friendly former congressman, Tom Price, to head the Department of Health and Human Services, and a former pharmaceutical consultant, Scott Gottlieb, to lead the Food and Drug Administration. Members of Congress have put forward a grab-bag of options, each of which would help or hurt different industry players. Some address minor aspects, such as a bipartisan bill that would force brand-name drugmakers to hand over samples of their drugs to generic competitors. One would allow for the importing of cheaper drugs. Another would force pharmacy benefit managers to disclose more information about how they did business. For now, it is a free-for-all. The brand-name drug industry is the dominant player. It spends the most on campaign contributions, has the largest army of lobbyists and has the biggest pile of chits among lawmakers to try to protect its own interests. Its trade group, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, or PhRMA, was so concerned about its vulnerability this year that it increased its annual dues by 50 percent — generating an extra $100 million to flood social media, television stations, as well as newspapers and magazines with advertising that reminds consumers of the industry’s role in helping to save lives. A second set of PhRMA ads point blame for price increases elsewhere, like benefit managers and health insurers. In doing so, PhRMA is seeking to rehabilitate a reputation that was damaged by the actions of companies like Turing Pharmaceuticals, which sharply hiked the price of a decades-old medicine. Its unapologetic former chief executive, Martin Shkreli, came to be seen as the ultimate illustration of the industry’s bad deeds. Though Turing was never a member of the group, PhRMA recently purged nearly two dozen companies from its membership after it voted to exclude investor-driven drug companies like Turing. Nearly every week that Congress is in session, the industry holds fund-raisers at private clubs and restaurants to help bankroll the re-election campaigns of its allies. One former lobbyist for PhRMA recently boasted that he had once organized six fund-raising events in a two-day period. (He asked that he not be named because the fund-raising efforts are supposed to be confidential.) In late April, for example, a PhRMA Industry Breakfast was hosted for Representative John Shimkus, Republican of Illinois, at the National Republican Club of Capitol Hill, a members-only hot spot across the street from the Capitol. The industry had reason to thank Mr. Shimkus. Last year, he helped save pharmaceutical companies billions of dollars by persuading the Obama administration to kill a project that was meant to test ways to lower the cost of the so-called Medicare Part B program, which spent $24.6 billion on prescription drugs in 2015. Mr. Shimkus, who received nearly $300,000 in drug-industry contributions in the last election cycle, led an effort to collect signatures from 242 members of the House challenging the effort. He also co-sponsored legislation that threatened to block it, which became moot after the Obama administration backed down. A spokesman for Mr. Shimkus said his actions were intended to protect cancer patients — pointing to a clinic in his district he said might close if the Medicare program had gone into effect — not the pharmaceutical industry. But other participants said industry influence — as drug companies attempted to preserve their bottom line — had played a decisive role. “When we first proposed this, people were warning me, ‘Be careful, everybody on K Street is going to be gunning for you now,’ and I did not really know what they meant,” said Andy Slavitt, a top Obama administration official who pushed the prescription drug price experiment. “Now I know. When you take on pharma, you take on this whole town.” Stephen J. Ubl, the chief executive of PhRMA, acknowledged that his group had been “very engaged” in defending his member companies’ interests, and blamed a few bad actors — not his own members — for the public’s disapproval. “The researchers wake up every day working for better treatments and cures,” he said, echoing his organization’s multimillion-dollar advertising campaign, “Go Boldly.” The pharmacy benefit managers are giants themselves. Two of the biggest, Express Scripts and CVS Health, which are among the nation’s 50 largest companies, have initiated their own counteroffensive. In February, Mark Merritt, the president of the Pharmaceutical Care Management Association, the trade group for benefit managers, outlined a strategy to “engage the new administration” and to build “a political firewall on Capitol Hill,” according to a confidential memo that was first made public by BuzzFeed. The memo bragged about the group’s courting of senior Trump administration officials. It also said it had met with Capitol Hill staff members and lawmakers, formed a partnership with conservative advocacy groups and created an advertising campaign called “Drug Benefit Solutions.” Last month, the group hosted several hundred government officials and other industry players at a fancy “policy forum” a few blocks from the Capitol, where it detailed just why its members were “uniquely positioned” to save consumers money. A smaller war is playing out between pharmacy benefit managers and pharmacists, confrontations that have included covert operations. When the independent pharmacists descended on Capitol Hill in late April, they came with a brochure depicting benefit managers as sharp-toothed dogs, grabbing bags of money. Yet even as they walked the halls, a group calling itself Ask Your Independent Pharmacist sent a blast email to some of the same lawmakers the pharmacists had just met with. “Whose interests are they on the Hill to champion — the pharmacist’s pocketbook or the patients they claim to serve?” an email asked. When The New York Times called a public relations firm, Kivvit, which operates out of an address listed on the email, staff members repeatedly hung up when asked who had paid for the message. After a reporter called the firm’s Chicago headquarters, Tracy Schmaler, a Justice Department aide in the Obama administration who now works at Kivvit, responded: Express Scripts had paid for the message. Jonah Houts, the head of government affairs at Express Scripts, said the company’s role as a middleman drew fire from all sides. “We were designed to create tension,” he said. “We’re successful at what we do, and that’s why we want to make sure the lawmakers who are considering legislation that affects us understand that.” The generics industry has also come under attack. Though its drugs are generally cheap, some have also risen sharply in price, and prosecutors have been investigating claims of price-fixing by some of the largest players, including Mylan. Heather Bresch, the chief executive of Mylan and a former chairwoman of the generics trade group, has been pilloried on social media for her role in hiking the price of EpiPens, even though EpiPens sold as branded drugs, not generics. As the controversy over EpiPens unfolded, Ms. Bresch shifted criticism toward what she called the “broken system” of brokers, distributors and pharmacists who take a cut of the price, too. In January, the generics trade group shed its old name for one that reflects the changed political climate: the Association for Accessible Medicines. Mr. Doggett, the Texas Democrat, said the industry war was in some ways a positive sign. “We have moved from ‘There is no problem’ to ‘It’s not my fault,’ ” he said. “It begins to focus attention on what so many of my constituents already know the problem is, which is price gouging."
05.29.2017	On Memorial Day, families all across the country take time to honor those who made the ultimate sacrifice for our country. For many of our friends and neighbors here in San Antonio, honoring the memory of our fallen heroes is personal. San Antonio is called “Military City USA” not only to salute those in uniform today, but also for the many veterans who call San Antonio home. Our veterans make American great, and our country is stronger when veterans promptly receive the benefits they earned for their service to our great Nation. Last month, I had the pleasure of joining City Councilwoman Rebecca Viagran, State Senator Jose Menendez, the Highland Park Neighborhood Association, the Band of Brothers, Commander Krystal Nerio of VFW Post 837, and John Rodriguez of VFW District 20 to rededicate the Schley Avenue Veterans Memorial, with a new light pole and a U.S. flag that I had flown over the U.S. Capitol. At the Schley memorial, day and night, light will now shine on the flag recognizing the service of our veterans and the memory of the fallen. Our vets deserve quality healthcare – Ensuring our veterans prompt access to quality healthcare has long been one of my top priorities. More than 13 million veterans receive some form of health care coverage outside the Veterans Administration (VA) – and repealing the Affordable Care Act would leave too many with more limited coverage or worse benefits, and might leave some with no coverage at all. The same is true for millions of veteran family members. This is one reason that I strongly oppose Republican efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Our veterans should not be discriminated against by being denied access to health insurance tax credits and critical mental health benefits. Eleven million veterans rely on Medicare and another two million are enrolled in Medicaid – any changes to these critical programs could negatively impact our courageous vets. And though we have come a long way in the last several years, we still have much work to do to improve access to care for those who use VA. While the VA is likely to come under further attacks by those determined to privatize it, I believe this would be a mistake. Such a dramatic change would shift more health care costs to veterans and alter a unique service for those who have served our country. I stand with the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Disabled Americans Veterans, American Legion and many others who say: Fix it, don’t break or sabotage it. Though progress has been made, too many of our vets are still waiting far too long to receive the care they have earned. I welcome the continuing advice from vets on this and other issues and want to hear from constituents who have experienced problems. Global impacts of those who serve — Just last month, Libby and I were in South Korea. We went to the 38th parallel in the Demilitarized Zone, a neutral territory between North and South Korea. Massive North Korean artillery is as close to the 25 million residents of Seoul, including thousands of our military who continue to serve there, as Boerne is to San Antonio. While the loyal sacrifice of many Americans has helped keep Korea stable and secure for so long, tensions on the Korean peninsula continue. I believe a pre-emptive strike would only result in the deaths of thousands of Americans and hundreds of thousands of South Koreans, and I remain committed to always speaking out against any actions that would put our brave men and women in unnecessary danger. Paying tribute to those who sacrifice – Every week I serve in Washington, I pass the imposing, inspiring World War II Memorial, where an inscription by President Truman reads, “Our debt to the heroic men and valiant women in the service of our Country can never be repaid. They have earned our undying gratitude. America will never forget their sacrifices.” My work as your representative in Congress is to fulfill that shining commitment to our veterans. On the battlefield, the pledge is to leave no service-member behind and on their return home we must leave no veteran behind. May our courageous military spark a fervor in all of us to continue to persevere through troubled times and bring about progress in achieving a more inclusive, just, and responsive government. I will continue to fight for our vets and military families. Memorial Day is not merely a three-day weekend that marks the start of summer. It is a moment for us to step back and honor our fallen heroes. And we should remain committed to thanking our veterans for their dedicated service and honoring their commitment with our gratitude every day of the year.
05.26.2017	SAN ANTONIO - The families of those killed in a hot air balloon crash last July in Lockhart are pressuring the White House to improve oversight on commercial ballooning. The victims' families want the Federal Aviation Administration to require hot air balloon pilots to take the same drug tests and medical exams and helicopter and airline pilots. In fact, they've started a petition on the White House website. According to the National Transportation Safety Board, the pilot involved in the crash, Alfred 'Skip' Nichols, had a history of drunken driving offenses and had marked 'no' on FAA medical certification records. The FAA decided not to take action against Nichols and instead sent him a warning. "Had the Federal Aviation Administration done its job and responded to the safety recommendations, I don't think this would have ever happened," said U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett. "So I want to do everything that I can to support the petition to demand action from the FAA." The NTSB says tests show Nichols also had several different prescription drugs in his system, including oxycodone and a muscle relaxer when the balloon crashed. If the petition gathers 100,000 signatures by June 16, 2017, the White House will respond. If you would like to read the petition, click here.
05.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), the Ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, for the third time introduced an amendment to authorize the Ways and Means Committee to obtain President Trump’s tax returns. In Committee, Rep. Doggett noted that the Morgan Lewis law firm upon which President Trump relied to review his tax returns for financial ties to Russia, is a firm that has boasted of the “prestigious honor” of being named “Russia Law Firm of the Year” for 2016. More recently, this same law firm told the Office of Government Ethics (OGE) that President Trump did not need to sign his 2016 personal financial disclosure form, a claim disputed by the OGE director. In a statement, Rep. Doggett said: “A clean bill of health from the ‘Russia Law Firm of the Year’ doesn’t cut it. We can do better. These are very troubling times in American history. Our national security has been jeopardized, our democracy is threatened, while so many have remained silent. Some see Trump as the only ticket to more tax breaks for the wealthiest few, and they are willing to pay almost any price to get them. A bipartisan review of Trump’s tax returns, not a self-serving review by lawyers on Trump’s payroll, is needed. Such an evaluation could also determine whether Trump, who has bragged about bending the tax code to his whim, is doing this with his tax plan.” The Committee’s Republican leadership has consistently voted to block Mr. Doggett’s amendment. A recent ABC News/Washington Post poll found that 74% of Americans would like for President Trump to disclose his tax returns. In May, a week before his abrupt firing, former FBI Director James Comey testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee and explained why tax returns can be important to a criminal investigation. He said, “They show motive, income. Something on a tax return that indicates it is criminal activity… it’s a relatively common tool.” On May 9, Director Comey was abruptly fired by President Trump. You can view Rep. Doggett’s full remarks before the Ways and Means Committee here. ###
05.25.2017	Budget offices tallies up GOP plan WASHINGTON POST WASHINGTON — Healthcare legislation adopted by House Republicans earlier this month would leave 23 million more Americans without insurance within a decade, and confront many others who have costly medical conditions with coverage that could prove unaffordable, the Congressional Budget Office projected Wednesday. The finding, which drew immediate fire from Democrats, patient advocates, health industry officials and some business groups, could complicate Republicans’ push to pass a companion bill in the Senate. The new score, which reflects a series of last-minute revisions Republicans made to win over several conservative lawmakers and a handful of moderates, calculates that the American Health Care Act would reduce the federal deficit by $119 billion between 2017 and 2026. That represents a smaller reduction than the $150 billion CBO estimated in late March, largely because House leaders provided more money in their final bill to offset costs for consumers with expensive medical conditions and included language that could translate to greater federal spending on health insurance subsidies. Premiums on average would fall compared to President Barack Obama’s health care overhaul — a chief goal of many Republicans — but that would be partly because policies typically would provide less coverage, said the report by the nonpartisan budget office. In some areas of the country, people with pre-existing conditions and others who were seriously ill “would ultimately be unable to purchase” robust coverage at premiums comparable to today’s prices, “if they could purchase at all,” it adds. Democrats jumped on the report as further evidence that the GOP effort to repeal Obama’s 2010 law — a staple of Donald Trump’s presidential campaign and those of numerous GOP congressional candidates for years — would be destructive. It comes three weeks after the House passed the legislation with only Republican votes, and as Senate Republicans try crafting their own version, which they say will be different. “The report makes clear that Trumpcare would be a cancer on the American health care system,” said Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., using the nickname Democrats have tried pinning on the bill. Schumer said the legislation would end up “causing costs to skyrocket, making coverage unaffordable for those with preexisting conditions and many seniors, and kicking millions off of their health insurance.” U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett of San Antonio was among Democrats who seized on the CBO report to criticize the GOP legislation. “CBO confirms that the Republican repeal bill remains a real loser, with millions still losing their access to a family physician while costs soar. Little wonder that Republicans voted first and asked questions later,” he said in a statement. As Republican senators quickly distanced themselves from the updated numbers, what became apparent is the difficult balancing act congressional leaders face as they seek to rewrite large portions of the Affordable Care Act. Some GOP senators are eager to soften portions of the House bill, including cuts to entitlement programs and a provision that would allow insurers in individual states to offer fewer benefits in their health plans or charge consumers with costly medical conditions higher premiums. But since those are elements that helped to ensure the AH-CA’s passage in the House, it’s unclear how a significantly altered Senate bill would fare during reconciliation with the House bill. Instead of addressing the future number of uninsured Americans under the Republican plan, House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., chose to focus Wednesday on the CBO’s estimate that premiums would fall under the AHCA. “This CBO report again confirms that the American Health Care Act achieves our mission: lowering premiums and lowering the deficit,” Ryan said in a statement. Some Republicans, like Sen. David Perdue, R-Ga., said the CBO score has no impact on his chamber’s efforts to write its own health legislation. “Regardless of any CBO score, it’s no secret Obamacare is collapsing under its own weight,” Perdue said in a statement. “Doing nothing is not an option. The Senate is working now to build on the efforts in the House to make our health care system more affordable and accessible for everyone.” The administration’s reaction came from Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price, who chose to focus on rising premiums under the ACA while faulting the congressional analysts’ latest numbers. “The CBO was wrong when they analyzed Obamacare’s effect on cost and coverage, and they are wrong again,” Price said. While House Republicans pressed ahead on a final vote without getting a precise cost estimate in advance, the new CBO projections will now shape what sort of measure can be crafted in the Senate. To avoid a filibuster, Senate Republicans plan to take the bill up under budget reconciliation rules, which only require a majority vote, but it means the legislation cannot increase the federal deficit within a 10-year window. The bill the House narrowly passed May 4 meets that test and would begin to dismantle the sweeping 2010 health care law. But Senate Republicans have been working for weeks on their own health care bill and emphasize they have no plans to simply take up the House’s legislation. “The CBO score on the Senate bill is going to be what counts,” Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn, R-Texas, said earlier Wednesday. Joseph Antos, a resident scholar at the libertarian American Enterprise Institute, said the new estimate “is the same signal repeated,” conveying that the changes congressional Republicans envision would cut the price of premiums and trim the decifit while leaving more Americans without insurance. The AHCA’s proposal to cut spending on Medicaid by $880 billion over the next decade is the thorniest political issue facing the Senate, Antos said. “They’re going to have to do something on Medicaid, and that something is a real question,” he said.
05.24.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), Ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, issued the following statement after the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released its cost esimate "score" of the Republicans' so-called "American Health Care Act." Rep. Doggett said: “CBO confirms that the Republican repeal bill remains a real loser, with millions still losing their access to a family physician while costs soar. Little wonder that Republicans voted first and asked questions later. It puts America last. Republicans rushed this bill through—not to send it to the Senate, as claimed, but to keep the public in the dark.” The CBO estimates that the projected number of people without health insurance would be 14 million by next year and 23 million by 2026. House Republicans passed the "American Health Care Act" in March without waiting for a CBO score. ###
05.24.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), Ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, made the following remarks during the full Ways and Means Committee mark-up of the Republicans’ so-called “American Health Care Act.” Rep. Doggett said: “Americans are faced with a major healthcare crisis: the soaring cost of prescription drug prices. Instead of doing anything to address this profiteering and bring down costs for American families, the Republicans gave Big Pharma a huge $28.5 billion windfall in their ‘Pay More For Less’ TrumpCare bill. Giving this tax break to the pharmaceutical industry takes money directly out of the Medicare Trust Fund, which so many seniors rely on, and is projected to drive up Medicare Part B premiums. The President promised not to touch Medicare and Medicaid, and yet this ill-conceived bill would line the pockets of wealthy pharmaceutical companies at the expense of our Nation’s seniors. I introduced an amendment today that would help right that wrong and restore dollars to the Medicare Part B Trust Fund, lowering costs for beneficiaries and states. We should not reward price gouging while hurting seniors. Unfortunately, the Republicans would not even allow a vote on my amendment.” You can view Congressman Doggett’s full introduction of his amendment here. ###
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump’s budget for next fiscal year envisions spending $2.7 billion for border security, including 74 miles of a border wall, most of it in Texas. “We are absolutely dead serious about the wall,” Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney said Tuesday. “In fact, after taking care of national security and the vets, my guess is, it’s in the president’s top three. In fact, I know for a fact that it is.” The White House had recently backed off initial spending on the wall as part of a measure that funds the federal government until Oct. 1, when Democrats refused to agree to the wall spending. The proposed budget for the Department of Homeland Security calls for $1.6 billion to build 74 miles of wall, mostly in the Rio Grande Valley, including 28 miles to continue a levee wall in Hidalgo County that would control flooding as well as stop illegal crossings. The only segment outside Texas would be a 14-mile stretch slated for San Diego. There is already 654 miles of fencing on the U.S.-Mexico border. U.S. Customs and Border Patrol is evaluating bids on prototypes for barriers. Trump’s budget includes $1.5 billion for detention centers and transportation to return immigrants entering the U.S. illegally to their countries. It also pays for technology such as surveillance hot air balloons known as aerostats and 5,000 additional Border Patrol agents. “We do think there’s a role for technology, a role for additional people, all of which we asked for in this 2018 budget request,” said Mulvaney. “But it is absolutely a priority for the president.” It is equally a priority for Democrats to fight the wall. “A border wall would be expensive and mostly unhelpful — more of a political symbol than a tactical advantage,” said U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar, D-Laredo. “It’s just not serious. I had hoped that the administration was beginning to see reason on this issue. However, they seem to still be clinging to campaign slogans, instead of digging into real policy solutions.” Cuellar had been willing to support the levee wall after local officials backed it, but he said that the local water district has now passed a resolution against it. He will meet with McAllen officials Friday, he said. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, referred to the total cost of the wall — estimated from $15 billion to $25 billion — and Trump’s campaign pledge to make Mexico pay for it: “Putting taxpayers on the hook to pay for it is just the latest brick in a wall of broken campaign promises. If we are going to pour billions into concrete, it ought to be an investment in ourselves, rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure.” Republicans, however, with majorities in the House and Senate, have the numbers to approve the funding. “I’m grateful to finally have a president committed to rebuilding our military, defending our borders and securing our great nation,” said U.S. Rep. John Carter, R-Round Rock. U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, who supports a “layered” approach on the border, not relying solely on a wall, chaired a hearing Tuesday before the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Border Security and Immigration. “If we really want to secure our borders, and I think the voters in this last presidential election indicated they did, we must be willing to devote the necessary level of funding to achieve it,” Cornyn said.
05.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), Ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, called out Republicans’ silence on President Trump. Rep. Doggett said on the House Floor: “There’s an old adage: ‘Loose lips sink ships.’ But it is also true that when it comes to abuse of presidential power, sealed lips sink a democracy. We’ve gone through a period where it appears some of our Republican colleagues are in a witness protection program. “At long last, what will awaken these Republicans from their partisan stupor? Our Republican colleagues need to decide whether they want to be accessories to Trump’s obstruction of justice as he continues to endanger our national security. “Trump reportedly told Comey: ‘I hope you can let this go.’ My fellow Americans, Comey could not let it go and now he’s gone. We cannot let this go. This is not business as usual. “I say it is time to truly put America first. Reject Putin, reject partisanship, help restore confidence in our Democracy by supporting an independent special counsel and an independent, nonpartisan, nonpolitical inquiry that I have been calling for since last November into this Russian interference. Too much is at stake to remain silent. We must join together to address this challenge to our future.” You can view Congressman Doggett’s full floor speech here. You can also find Congressman Doggett’s full speech as prepared below. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett House Floor: “We Cannot ‘Let this go’” May 17, 2017 “This is a very troubling time in American history. Our national security is in danger. The very future of our democracy is at stake. And without the continued engagement of millions of people across the country, this troubling time could become much worse. “There’s an old adage: ‘Loose lips sink ships.’ But it is also true that when it comes to abuse of presidential power, sealed lips sink a democracy. We’ve gone through a period where it appears some of our Republican colleagues are in a witness protection program as they have been unable to come forward with any words to comment on the continued abuse of power that we see played out each day with one being more incredible than the one before. “All U.S. intelligence services agree that the Russians interfered in the last election; Russia deserves sanctions, not secrets, not rewards. “This is a President of the United States that invited Putin’s gang right in the Oval Office; President Trump in a cavalier way proceeded to share secrets with them. At long last, what will awaken these Republicans from their partisan stupor? Because we need them to speak out as well. “Last night we learned that Trump asked the FBI Director James Comey, before firing him, to drop the investigation into former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn, who Trump had been advised before he fired him, that he was subject to being compromised by Russia in his operations. Our Republican colleagues need to decide whether they want to be accessories to Trump’s obstruction of justice as he continues to endanger our national security. “Trump’s firing of Director Comey is a shocking example of incredible duplicity that threatens the very fabric of the future of American democracy. It is a Nixonian dismissal designed to obstruct further inquiry into collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia. Trump even said himself during an NBC interview with Lester Holt, that ‘regardless of the recommendation’ from the Department of Justice, he was prepared to fire the FBI director because of what he was doing with the Russia investigation. “And that’s part of a pattern. Having fired the U.S. attorney in NYC, having fired the Acting Attorney General, Sally Yates, then Mr. Comey. If you are perceived as crossing the line with President Trump, it’s like an episode of the old TV series, The Apprentice, ‘you’re fired.’ But this is not make-believe. This is the future of Democracy. “With every day bringing new cover-up evidence, what could possibly explain the continued Republican silence? Their callous indifference. “Trump is the Republicans’ golden ticket to denying health coverage to 24 million Americans and at the same time showering a trillion dollars to the superrich and handful of special interests. He’s their winning ticket to awarding multinational tax dodgers more tax breaks, while blowing a hole in the deficit that can change Medicare and Social Security forever. “Trump reportedly told Comey: ‘I hope you can let this go.’ My fellow Americans, Comey could not let it go and now he’s gone. We cannot let this go. This is not business as usual. This is not just more tax breaks for the superrich, as Republicans are urging in a hearing tomorrow in the House; we cannot let this go. History will be unkind to those who could not find their voice at this critical time in American history. I say it is time to truly put America first. Reject Putin, reject partisanship, help restore confidence in our Democracy by supporting an independent special counsel and an independent, nonpartisan, nonpolitical inquiry that I have been calling for since last November into this Russian interference. Too much is at stake to remain silent. We must join together to address this challenge to our future.” ###
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON — The Justice Department late Wednesday said it was appointing former FBI Director Robert Mueller as special counsel to oversee the ongoing investigation of Russian efforts to influence the 2016 presidential election. “In my capacity as acting Attorney General, I determined that it is in the public interest for me to exercise my authority and appoint a Special Counsel to assume responsibility for this matter,” said Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. “My decision is not a finding that crimes have been committed or that any prosecution is warranted. I have made no such determination. What I have determined is that based upon the unique circumstances, the public interest requires me to place this investigation under the authority of a person who exercises a degree of independence from the normal chain of command.” Mueller, who served as FBI director from 2001 to 2013, “will have all appropriate resources to conduct a thorough and complete investigation,” Rosenstein said. U.S. Rep. Joaquin Castro, D-San Antonio, called Mueller's appointment “a positive step.” “The American people expect him to conduct a thorough and impartial investigation into whether any Americans assisted the Russians who interfered in our election and, if necessary, to use his ability to prosecute perpetrators,” Castro said in a statement. The announcement came amid growing murmurs of impeachment as Democrats went on the attack over reports that before President Donald Trump fired FBI Director James Comey, he asked him to squelch an investigation into former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn. Even as Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan called for a review of a damaging memo implicating Trump, he said he still had confidence in the president. At the same time, the Senate Intelligence Committee said it wants Comey to testify, and Democrats pressed for legislation to name an independent commission to investigate alleged Trump-Russia ties and potential obstruction of justice. Public reaction from Republicans was muted, though some expressed private frustration about the onslaught of allegations surrounding Trump’s handling of classified information and his sacking of Comey, who was leading the agency’s investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 elections. U.S. Rep. Will Hurd, R-San Antonio, went beyond most Republicans, amplifying on an earlier statement last week that had called Comey’s firing “troubling.” “Even more troubling,” Hurd said Wednesday, “are reports that just months before his firing, James Comey - a man who in spite of our disagreements I have the utmost respect for - may have come under pressure by the president in an attempt to influence an ongoing FBI investigation.” Hurd, who sits on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said he supported the committee’s request for Comey’s memos and for the former FBI director to appear in front of the committee to testify. The memos reportedly stem from leaked accounts of private notes Comey took of his conversations with Trump in February. Their existence was reported by the New York Times and Washington Post, citing associates of Comey who had seen the notes. At least one Republican, Justin Amash of Michigan, told reporters that if the allegations about Trump’s pressure on Comey are true, they would warrant impeachment. Amash added, however, “Everybody gets a fair trial in this country.” Meanwhile, Houston Democrat Al Green became the first member of Congress to go to the House floor to call for impeachment, citing Trump’s alleged request to Comey to “let… go” an inquiry about Flynn, and the president’s subsequent warnings to Comey via Twitter that he “better hope there are no ‘tapes’ of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press!” “There is a belief in this country that no one is above the law, and that includes the president of the United States of America,” Green said. “Our Democracy is at risk… This offense has occurred before our very eyes.” San Antonio Democrat Lloyd Doggett also took to the House floor to decry Republican silence about the Comey affair. “It would appear that some of our Republican colleagues are in a witness protection program,” Doggett said. “At long last we wonder what will awaken these Republicans from their partisan stupor.” While stopping short of calling for impeachment, Doggett said, “Our Republican colleagues need to decide whether they want to be accessories to Trump’s obstruction of justice as he continues to endanger national security.” U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar, D-Laredo, used his Twitter account to assert that Trump may have sought to obstruct an FBI investigation. “The American people need an independent investigation to find the truth,” Cuellar wrote. U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio, among several Texas Republicans who have publicly backed Comey’s firing, did not respond to a request to comment on the latest report dogging the White House. Nor did Texas Republicans Michael McCaul, John Culberson, Ted Poe and Pete Olson. Republicans were being urged by leaders to show restraint and not rush to judgment. Ryan told GOP members during a closed-door meeting on Wednesday that they “need the facts.” “There’s been a lot of reporting lately,” Ryan said, referring reports that Trump pressured Comey to end the Flynn investigation, which centered on his firing for misleading White House officials about his phone calls with Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak. Ryan also questioned Comey’s version of events. “I’m sure we’re going to want to hear from Mr. Comey about why, if this happened as he allegedly describes, why didn’t he take action at the time?” Trump, speaking at Wednesday’s U.S. Coast Guard commencement, struck a combative tone but didn’t directly address the political whirlwind around him. “You will find that things happen to you that you do not deserve and that are not always warranted,” he said. “But you have to put your head down and fight, fight, fight.” He added: "No politician in history … has been treated worse or more unfairly.” But Arizona Sen. John McCain, a Republican, compared the obstruction of justice allegations against Trump to those made against President Richard Nixon during the Watergate scandal in the 1970s. White House spokesman Sean Spicer, speaking with reporters while returning from the Coast Guard Academy, refuted media accounts of Comey’s memo, but offered no details. “The president has been very clear that the account that was published is not an accurate description of how the event occurred,” he said. “I’m not going to give any other comment on that.” Green, a former NAACP leader in his 12th year in Congress, joined a chorus of Democrats - including California’s Maxine Waters - who have talked about Trump’s impeachment. But he was the first to do so from the House floor. Green’s speech - delivered, he said, with a “heavy heart” - also comes a day after Sen. Angus King, I-Maine, suggested on CNN that Trump could be headed for impeachment after allegedly asking Comey to end his inquiry of Flynn. “I have to say,” King said, “simply because obstruction of justice is such a serious offense.” Green also cited obstruction of justice as a grounds for impeaching Trump. “I do not do this for political purposes,” he said. “I do this because I believe in the great ideals that this country stands for: Liberty and Justice for all.” While recent revelations about Trump’s sacking of the FBI director have alarmed Democrats, actual impeachment proceedings would require the participation of Republicans who control both chambers of Congress. Green acknowledged that his impeachment call might seem a long shot. “I am a voice in the wilderness,” he said. “But I assure you that history will vindicate me.”
05.18.2017	The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development announced it is awarding San Marcos an additional $7.7 million for disaster recovery from the 2015 floods. The department’s Community Development Block Grant-Disaster Recovery Program doles out money for communities in the most impacted areas with significant unmet recovery needs. San Marcos was one of several local and state governments to receive the funding announced Thursday, along with the state of Texas, which received $15 million. The $7.7 million grant is in addition to a $25.08 million allocation announced in February 2016. The grants come with many requirements, central of which is an “action plan” detailing how the funds will be spent. The department approved the city of San Marcos’ action plan in November 2016, which came together after several public meetings. That plan divvied up the funding into the following categories: $7.5 million for housing, $12.5 million for infrastructure, $3.7 million for planning and $1,254,000 for administrative costs. On Monday, the city launched a housing program to begin repairing and rebuilding flood-damaged homes. The deadline for qualified residents to apply is June 28. City spokesman Trey Hatt was unsure on Thursday whether the additional $7.7 million allocation would spur a new planning process or if it would be incorporated into the existing action plan. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, in a statement Thursday applauded the new grants . “I am hopeful that together we will avoid future flood damage and address a wide range of local needs that will strengthen San Marcos,” Doggett said.
05.17.2017	The American-Statesman asked the state’s two U.S. senators and the six congressmen representing Austin and surrounding areas whether they were troubled by reports this week that President Donald Trump revealed highly classified information in a meeting with top Russian officials. Only three people responded. Not responding: U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas; U.S. Reps. Michael McCaul, R-Austin, chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee; Roger Williams, R-Austin; Bill Flores, R-Bryan; John Carter, R-Round Rock. “It is unquestionably important to protect the sources and methods we use to collect intelligence. It is important for America’s national security, it is important for the security of our allies. I’m going to wait and withhold judgment on what’s been reported until I know the facts and circumstances — of what was said and what the context was. And I’m hopeful to learn more details in a classified setting, an appropriate setting to have a briefing and understand what was communicated. But I don’t think we should leap to conclusions based on press reports based on anonymous sources. The proper way to assess a situation is to do so with facts and evidence and understanding and I look forward to learning more about what was communicated and what wasn’t.” —U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas “The White House and National Security Council have denied the allegations about sharing classified intelligence and there is no evidence showing otherwise. As commander in chief, President Trump has the right to confer with global leaders in the fight against terrorism.” — U.S. Sen. Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio “It’s true that ‘loose lips sink ships.’ And sealed lips sink a democracy. What will awaken those Republican officials, who remain silent, deep asleep in their partisan stupor? They must decide whether they want to be accessories to Trump’s obstruction of justice as he continues to endanger our national security.The Russians deserve sanctions, not secrets.” — U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin
05.16.2017	
05.12.2017	U.S Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, and other dignitaries presented a house key and gifts to Claudia Mejia, a single mother with three children. The hospital housekeeper and her daughters will be the first tenants of a new home built on a SAHA-owned property at 24 Gus Garcia on the city's West Side. Touted as SAHA's first single-family home to be certified under Build San Antonio Green level II new construction guidelines, the house also meets the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Energy Star 3.0 Program guidelines. "This shows that doing the right thing, the progressive thing, about carbon emissions and climate change is also the profitable thing to do," Doggett said. "With all the wrong that is going on in Washington about how we deal with these very real problems of climate change and global warming, … we've got to do it house by house, building by building. And this house shows the right path forward." Although the original home on the property was destroyed by a fire, SAHA contracted San Antonio-based Tejas Premier Building Contractor Inc. to build the new green home for about $130,000. Built using recycled materials, the 1,148-square foot, three-bedroom and two-bathroom home features spray-foam insulation, ceramic tile floors and energy-efficient appliances, siding, windows, air conditioning and ventilation. SAHA works within its budget to make public houses and and apartments as energy-efficient as possible, agency President and CEO David Nisivoccia told the Business Journal. The new home's green features are expected to save Mejia around $100 dollars a month on the family's light bill. "With the average SAHA tenant making between $12,000 and $13,000 a year, $100 a month on utility bills is a large savings," Nisivoccia said. "What's really important that is that they can take money holistically and put it toward healthier food options for the family or put it toward better transportation or toward education opportunities. So this gives them an opportunity, and pun intended, this lays the foundation for the rest of their lives." Sergio Chapa covers manufacturing and the energy industry
05.10.2017	WASHINGTON - By the topsy-turvy standards of Donald Trump’s White House, the day started quietly. Few outside Trump’s inner circle on Tuesday had reason to believe it would end with the firing of FBI Director James Comey, perhaps the biggest Washington shakeup since 1973, when President Richard Nixon fired Watergate special prosecutor Archibald Cox. Trump had only two public meetings on his daily schedule: An intelligence briefing at 10 a.m., followed by a closed-door meeting with National Security Adviser H. R. McMaster. As expected, the daily press briefing with White House spokesman Sean Spicer in the afternoon was largely devoted to former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn, the subject of a Senate hearing the day before on Russian meddling in the 2016 elections. One reporter brought up Comey: “Does the President still have confidence — full confidence — in FBI Director James Comey?” Spicer was circumspect: “I have no reason to believe — I haven’t asked him. So I don’t — I have not asked the President since the last time we spoke about this.” The reporter pressed: “And the last time you spoke about it, you said he did have confidence, but you’re not sure to say that again now?” Answered Spicer: “Well, I don’t — in light of what you’re telling me, I don’t want to start speaking on behalf of the president without speaking to him first.” Two hours later, at 4:39 p.m., White House staffers called a “lid” - usually taken as a sign that the president’s public work day is over, releasing reporters and photographers who serve in the daily press pool. Over at the Capitol, with the House in recess, the halls were mostly empty. The sun was starting to fade over the Potomac. Then around 5:30 p.m., with rush hour in full swing, Spicer returned to the White House briefing room with a statement, surprising a small group of reporters who had stayed behind: “The president has accepted the recommendation of the Attorney General and the deputy Attorney General regarding the dismissal of the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.” It hit like a thunderclap on an otherwise sunny, cool spring day. A typical reaction came from Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat who serves on the Senate Intelligence Committee which has been looking into the FBI’s investigation into alleged ties between Trump campaign associates and Russian intelligence agents. “I’m flabbergasted” he told Fox News. It wasn’t just Democrats who were taken by surprise. Texas U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, who serves on both the Intelligence Committee and the Judiciary Committee that oversees the FBI, also reportedly received no heads-up. He found out on his iPhone. Cornyn, talking to reporters later in the Capitol, gave a guarded response. “He serves at the pleasure of the president, and while I believe Director Comey to be a good man and an honorable man, I hope the president can now find somebody who can be a strong independent leader for the department. It’s really important for the country.” Cornyn added this about the FBI director who has variously been accused by Republicans and Democrats of dragging the FBI into the 2016 election through his handling of the Hillary Clinton email investigation: “Obviously he’s been the focus of a lot of controversies, and I think it is important that we have an independent director.” Texas’ Republican junior senator, Ted Cruz, was similarly cautious. When reporters caught him in the hallway, he declined comment, saying only “I want to wait to review the basis of the firing and the facts and circumstances behind it.” Other conservatives made clear they thought Comey’s departure was overdue. “The FBI must be beyond reproach and cannot even be perceived as being politically weaponized,” said Americans for Limited Government President Rick Manning. But Democrats reacted with alarm, including some from Texas. “President Trump’s actions are not politics as usual,” said Houston U.S. Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee. “At best, they represent an egregious overreach of his authority. At worst, they are a blatant attempt to derail the investigation into the collusion of Trump campaign officials with Russia’s interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.” U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett of San Antonio, was among Democrats who likened Comey’s firing to Watergate. “This Nixonion dismissal is designed to obstruct further inquiry into collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia,” Doggett said in a statement. “It is long past time for my Republican colleagues to stop covering up and start exposing Trump to an independent, non-partisan commission as I have urged since November.” U.S. Rep. Joaquin Castro, D-San Antonio, called the firing “extremely suspicious,” adding his belief that an independent commission should be appointed to investigate Russia’s meddling last year in U.S. elections. Castro said that when asked since last year if he believed Comey should be fired, he has replied that despite Comey’s missteps he trusted him “more than any person President Trump would nominate.” Castro added in a statement: “Above all else, the FBI’s investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election must continue. Because Attorney General Sessions has recused himself from that investigation, I urge Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein to reaffirm the agency’s commitment to seeking the truth in this matter.”
05.10.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), Ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, issued the following statement after President Trump fired FBI Director James Comey: “Yesterday, we learned that Trump endangered our national security with his appointment of a top security advisor clearly subject to compromise by Putin. Hours later, he suddenly fires the FBI Director, who is investigating Russian interference in our election. This Nixonion dismissal is designed to obstruct further inquiry into collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia. The pretext that Comey was fired because he was too mean to Hillary Clinton sharply contrasts with cries of 'Lock her up!' It is long past time for my Republican colleagues to stop covering up and start exposing Trump to an independent, non-partisan commission as I have urged since November.” ###
05.09.2017	Democratic U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett joins a “sanctuary cities” law protest Monday outside the Governor’s Mansion. RICARDO B. BRAZZIELL / AMERICANSTATESMAN Ken Zarifis, president of Education Austin, the school district’s teachers union, takes part Monday in a protest of the “sanctuary cities” law outside the Governor’s Mansion in Austin. RICARDO B. BRAZZIELL / AMERICAN-STATESMAN Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton has sued multiple high-ranking Travis County officials, including Sheriff Sally Hernandez, Austin Mayor Steve Adler and other staunch opponents of a new law that will punish counties for failing to comply with federal immigration practices. The lawsuit, which seeks a judge’s opinion on the legality of Senate Bill 4, is perceived as a pre-emptive strike against any litigation the county had planned against the state. In what could end up being a protracted battle in federal court, the state got the first word, accusing Travis and Austin officials of being “publicly hostile to cooperation with federal immigration enforcement.” The lawsuit came about the same time Gov. Greg Abbott took to Facebook on Sunday evening to livestream his signing of the controversial “sanctuary cities” bill. A statement released Monday by the attorney general’s office never mentions Travis County or Austin by name, instead attributing a quote to Paxton saying that “some municipalities and law enforcement agencies are unwilling to cooperate with the federal government and claim that SB 4 is unconstitutional.” The bill will go into effect in September, giving Hernandez approximately four months to alter a policy she began in February reducing cooperation with Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents. Under Hernandez, the county has refused to detain defendants for immigration investigations unless they are charged with crimes such as murder, aggravated sexual assault or human trafficking. That position under SB 4 will be illegal and grounds for Hernandez to be charged with a crime and for the sheriff’s office to be fined $25,000 a day. According to the lawsuit, Travis County from Jan. 28 to Feb. 3 declined 142 ICE detainer requests (69 percent). The new law was a priority for both Abbott and Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick. “Texas has finally said ‘enough is enough’ and banned sanctuary cities,” Patrick said in a statement. “Now, no liberal local official can ignore the law and allow criminal aliens who have committed a crime to go free.” A sheriff’s spokeswoman said Monday that Hernandez had no immediate comment about the law, but will make a statement later this week about how the sheriff’s office will change its procedures. Adler, another staunch opponent of SB 4, released a statement saying he’s glad the battle is moving to court, “where it’s not about politics, it’s about the law.” “A judge will decide whether the United States of America or Texas determines federal immigration policy and whether local police and prosecutors have the discretion to keep their communities safe,” he said. “I was elected by the people of Austin, and I will continue to speak on their behalf.” Austin City Council Member Greg Casar, who is named in the lawsuit with the rest of the council, said the lawsuit smacks of insecurity by state officials about whether the bill is constitutional. He called it cowardly for Abbott to sign the bill and for Paxton to file the lawsuit Sunday evening to avoid public scrutiny. “The governor and his cronies clearly are worried about the constitutionality and popularity of their law,” Casar said. “I think it’s fair to say, coming from my conversations with leaders from all over the state, they are very interested in questioning the constitutionality of this.” Also named in the lawsuit are interim City Manager Elaine Hart and the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund. Meanwhile, area law enforcement agencies are reviewing how to enforce immigration practices under the new standards, which let police inquire during routine stops whether someone is in the U.S. legally. The same goes for campus police. However, Austin school district police officers will not begin making students suspected of crimes provide proof of legal status, according to Chief Eric Mendez. “It’s not pertinent to the offense that we’re dealing with at the time,” Mendez said. Austin interim Police Chief Brian Manley said in a statement that he is reviewing the language of SB 4 to get a better understanding of how it will affect his department. “The Austin Police Department has worked hard to build and maintain trust, communication and stronger relationships with our communities through outreach programs and community policing,” Manley said. “This effort and engagement will continue. With the passage of this law, we want our minority community to maintain their trust in us. If you see or are a victim of a criminal act we want you to call us and report it.” An earlier version of this story gave the wrong month for the implementation of Travis County’s new policy reducing cooperation with Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents. That change took place in February.
05.08.2017	Pictured with Congressman Lloyd Doggett, former San Marcos Mayor Daniel Guerrero, from Gary Job Corps Irma Pardo, Randolph Goodman, and President Centro Cultural Ruben Becerra Thanks to the following for their sponsorship, The Becerra Family, The Palm Café, Sociedad Cuauhtemoc, and ColorMix Graphics & Printing. Celebrating 15th Annual Cinco de Mayo at Cuauhtemoc Hall sponsored by the Centro Cultural Hispano de San Marcos. Many local residents, elected, state, business, and federal representatives enjoyed music by San Marcos High School Mariachi Band, food by the Palm Café, door prizes, and silent auction. Thanks to the following for their sponsorship, The Becerra Family, The Palm Café, Sociedad Cuauhtemoc and ColorMix Graphics & Printing.
05.08.2017	Congressman Lloyd Doggett stands in front of the Texas State Capitol Building during the Women's March on Austin. DAILY RECORD PHOTO BY DENISE CATHEY Congressional Visit Editor’s Note: U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett visited the Daily Record Friday, May 5 and was interviewed about several topics including healthcare, the political climate and the media by Managing Editor Anita Miller. The congressman was supplied the questions a day ahead of the meeting. MILLER: After yesterday, I think the order of my questions have changed just a bit… Please share your thoughts on the (healthcare) vote and what this means for the future. DOGGETT: Well, I think that there are two aspects I would focus on. The first is the substance of healthcare. I believe that we need to be working toward the goal of everyone having access to a family physician. The Affordable Care Act, Obamacare, has a number of deficiencies— things that need to be corrected about it— but all of the focus has been on totally eliminating it, essentially replacing Obamacare with “Nothingcare.” I had hoped that after the defeat of the first bill, there would be more of a “coming together,” but as you know, Speaker Ryan said “Don’t negotiate with the Democrats, let’s keep this a Republican-only bill,” and as a result we have a bill that’s even worse than where they started out. The biggest problems I see with it are, number one: Pre-existing conditions. Almost half of Texans have something that can be defined as a pre-existing condition. I was just visiting a woman at our luncheon with the Women’s Center here. Domestic violence has been defined by some insurers as a pre-existing condition. Jimmy Kimmel is not the only one to have a child born with a disability. We need to protect people with pre-existing conditions. President Trump has said this bill would do that— but it clearly does not. Second problem is for people who are too young to be on Medicare— particularly in the 50-64 range. Under the existing law, they can be charged by insurers three times as much as younger people for their premium. Under this bill, it goes up to five times. In fact, though five times is in there, other provisions of the bill will allow it to be even higher than that. Those who are in that age group, beginning to have more, need to see a physician probably. In some cases, being transitioned out of a job, need insurance very much and they’re gonna be priced out of the market. Those are two of the biggest problems with the bill. The third one is what is called “essential benefits” and they’re called essential benefits because they are essential. What this will mean is that insurance companies can write into the fine print of their policy, not only for poor people or people going through the insurance exchange, but someone who has the best group health policy for some major Fortune 500 company— they can begin to write provisions in there. So you think you have coverage but you find limitations on how much they’ll pay per year or for your life. I remember, so well, the sister of a woman who called me in the original Obamacare debate and she was in tears talking about her sister having breast cancer. Her sister had coverage for chemotherapy, but it had a limit of $25,000. While that seems like a lot, the hospital didn’t want to treat her because she didn’t have a way to explain what was going to happen to the $100,000 that she needed. That’s the kind of problem that we will encounter. As far as the process – that’s equally important. The fact that though President Trump said that this will be insurance for everyone, it will cost less and will be better. It clearly doesn’t do that— they decided to do this as a totally partisan exercise. You will recall that the bill was actually under lock and key with a guard at the capital. Even some Republicans like Rand Paul couldn’t see the bill until like less than 48 hours before we began the markup. That we’ve never had a single person from the Trump administration come to hear a hearing— in fact, we have not had any hearing at all on this bill. Unheard of. In the process that led up to the Obamacare bill, we accepted over 100 Republican amendments. No democratic amendments were held and they ran all night sessions. And the same thing happened again this week. Another kind of “Jack in the Box,” or surprise attack. We finished up our work on Wednesday night with no notice that the bill would be on the floor and at 9:15 the next morning, the bill was up on the floor. They must rely on stealth in order to pass this. It’s not only the people who would come to defend the bill that need to testify, but every healthcare professional group that I’ve heard of— the physicians, nurses, public health, hospitals— every one of them came out against this bill and said it was bad. The groups that represent those with major diseases— heart, cancer, multiple sclerosis, March of Dimes— all these groups came out against this bill. As I said during the debate on the floor yesterday, it’s as if the Republicans are hearing the “Pied Piper of Trump Tower.” They feel they’ve got to dance. Another aspect of this bill— that it’s $1,000,000,000 tax giveaway. $27,000,000 of that goes to pharmaceutical manufacturers who do not get asked for a thing in return— at a time that they’re involved in massive price gouging all across this country. So I put that into the process end, because it may be that having finally passed this bill through the house that will be mode of the future— stealth attack, no hearings, no explanation, running through totally partisan bills. That really would be bad for our democracy even beyond the threat of healthcare. MILLER: This is backing up a little bit after that, but how is the political climate in the House of Representatives and in Washington changed since the election? DOGGETT: Well I think it’s deteriorated significantly. Things weren’t great a year ago but the quality of dialogue during the presidential campaign led by Donald Trump went straight down. Now we have him basically saying that anybody that is opposed to him or gets bad ratings is evil, is unpatriotic, is crazy. I’m willing to accept the fact that I don’t have a monopoly on truth and that a number of Republicans with whom I deal may have a good idea– they certainly aren’t unpatriotic. They hold their views strongly in many cases, but the level of respect for one another has deteriorated led by President Trump— and that is an unfortunate thing. MILLER: President Trump’s dislike of the media is well-known. Do you agree that the press is an enemy of the American people or a necessary component of a free and democratic society? DOGGETT: Well, I view the press as vital. There’s a natural tension between those who are in elected in office at all levels of government and the press. There probably isn’t a month that goes by that I don’t have some personal complaint about something that I read about in the press— either on me or on something that I feel that I have some insight on. One of the biggest problems we have in our country today has been the challenges that the press faces as print gets less and digital gets more. We haven’t perfected that transition. It is vital that we have good investigative reporting, and just because it reaches a conclusion I don’t like, doesn’t mean that it’s not valuable or good. I think that we need more press involvement, not less— exploring every level of government, exposing faults. I think we need a press that is focusing more on substance than just personalities, but I believe everything Trump has said about the press sets up a view that no matter how credible the evidence, we are to disregard it and believe whatever he says and that’s very dangerous to democracy. MILLER: You’ve been seen at marches and townhall meetings, unlike many of your colleagues. What are the biggest concerns you’re hearing from your constituents? DOGGETT: I have had a number of townhalls, I’m doing another one on the south side of San Antonio this coming week. I feel that I’ve learned a lot from those townhalls, but I would say the main thing— the number one issue– is Trump himself, what he’s doing to our democracy. If we don’t stand up to it and resist it, things will get worse than they are now. Beyond that, as far as specific areas of concern— they’re concerned about health, concerned about education, both the attacks on our public schools and the attempts to divert resources from them and to denigrate them and public education. And the attacks being made on higher education, both here in the Texas Legislature and in Washington. We’re not only seeing those who advocate for less individual opportunity, but they’re really advocating for less American competitiveness. Our young people from pre-school to post-grad— we’re making a mistake. We will have a less competitive country in the future, so education is a big one. Last week, I participated at the climate march and I’m hearing a lot of concern about the environment. Our San Marcos River and many other natural resources here in Hays County are so important to preserve. The Trump administration seems to think that environmental law enforcement is something they don’t want to have anything to do with and that our natural resources only exist to be exploited. As you will recall, the biggest march, I believe, in the history of Texas at which I spoke at the Capitol— at which we had a busload plus of folks from Hays County, I think a couple of buses, plus all of the individuals that came— was the Women’s March. I’ve met with some of the organizers since then and we will be meeting with the organizers again. It’s really all a matter of, can we channel that energy into something that’s constructive? MILLER: Which leads me to my next question. There’s been a resurgence of potential Democratic candidates preparing to run in the election in 2018. Although it is early, what do you foresee for that election year? DOGGETT: Well in tying it in leading up to that directly with what I was saying. When I visit with people it’s really important that you march and that you use social media but you’ve got to be social. We have to reach out to people that thought voting for Trump was a shortcut to get big change in Washington and many of those people are right here in Hays County. I say that now is a particularly good time to get involved with a local group. The Women’s Center is one, environmental groups concerned with our river— that was the appeal I made when I spoke at Bobcat Build, to not just have a day of service but to find a group— working with children, working with seniors, here in the county because the federal budget has been reduced. So there’s that, and then there is getting involved in the political process. If you want to bring about change, you have to change what is happening in the political process and you have to hold every elected official at every level of government accountable for their conduct.
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON — The House on Thursday narrowly approved a bill to repeal and replace major parts of the Affordable Care Act, as Republicans recovered from their earlier failures and moved a step closer to delivering their promise to reshape American health care without mandated insurance coverage. The vote, 217-213, on President Trump’s 105th day in office, keeps alive the Republican dream to unwind the signature legislative achievement of former President Barack Obama. The House measure faces profound uncertainty in the Senate, where the legislation’s steep spending cuts will almost certainly be moderated. Any legislation that can get through the Senate will again have to clear the House and its conservative majority. Just before the House vote, the Senate on Thursday gave final approval to a $1.1 trillion spending bill that will finance the government through September, and unlike the health care legislation, the spending bill had broad bi-partisan support. Passage of the health care bill completed a remarkable act of political resuscitation, six weeks after House leaders failed to muster the votes to pass an earlier version of their bill, a blow to Mr. Trump and Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin. Mr. Ryan closed the debate saying that a continuation of the Affordable Care Act would be intolerable. “It means even higher premiums, even fewer choices, even more insurance companies pulling out, even more uncertainty and even more chaos,” he said. How Every Member Voted on the House Health Care Bill “What protection is Obamacare if there is no health care plan to purchase in your state?” Mr. Ryan asked. Many Republicans were simply glad the fight was over — for now. “We are all breathing a sigh of relief,” Representative Chris Collins, Republican of New York, said. “We’re living up to a campaign promise we made, the Senate made, the president made.” Democrats vowed to make Republicans pay a high political price for pushing such unpopular legislation. Twenty Republicans crossed the aisle to vote against the bill, which, like the Affordable Care Act itself, passed without any votes from the minority party. As Republicans crossed 217 votes, Democrats heckled them with “Nah nah nah nah, hey hey hey goodbye.” “I have never seen political suicide in my life like I’m seeing today,” Representative Louise M. Slaughter, Democrat of New York, said. Video of U.S. House of Representatives passes American Health Care Act (C-SPAN) Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader, warned moderate Republicans who supported the measure: “You have every provision of this bill tattooed on your forehead. You will glow in the dark.” The House bill would eliminate tax penalties for people who go without health insurance. It would roll back state-by-state expansions of Medicaid, which covered millions of low-income Americans. In place of government-subsidized insurance policies offered exclusively on the Affordable Care Act’s marketplaces, the bill would offer tax credits of $2,000 to $4,000 a year, depending mainly on age. A family could receive up to $14,000 a year in credits. The credits would be reduced for individuals making over $75,000 a year and families making over $150,000. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said the first version of the bill would trim the federal budget deficit considerably but would also leave 24 million more Americans without health insurance after a decade. Insurance premiums would spike next year before settling lower after a decade. The vote on Thursday, just before House members were to leave for an 11-day recess, shifts the focus over to the Senate, where a number of Republicans have expressed significant concerns over the House plan, including how it would affect states that expanded Medicaid and whether it would drive up premiums for older people. Republican senators are certain to face pressure from governors worried about constituents on Medicaid losing their coverage. Republican leaders changed the House bill to woo hard-line conservatives, allowing state governments to roll back required coverage for “essential” services like maternity and emergency care. States could also seek waivers that would let insurers charge higher premiums for customers with pre-existing medical conditions. Those changes could be rejected by moderate Republican senators. Speaker Paul D. Ryan walks to the House floor on Thursday. Credit Gabriella Demczuk for The New York Times And Democrats are confident that some provisions of the House bill will not comply with special budget rules that Republicans must follow in order to skirt a Senate filibuster. Republicans have promised for seven years to repeal the health law, under which around 20 million Americans gained health coverage. But they had no consensus on how much of the law should be repealed and had great difficulty devising a comprehensive replacement. Their doubts were reinforced by constituents who said the health law had saved their lives. Doctors, hospitals and other health care providers joined patient advocacy groups like the American Cancer Society and AARP in opposing the repeal bill. The House vote on Thursday occurred before the Congressional Budget Office had released a new analysis of the revised bill with its cost and impact. Democrats angrily questioned how Republicans could vote on a bill that would affect millions of people and a large slice of the American economy without knowing the ramifications. The Republican bill, the American Health Care Act, would make profound changes to Medicaid, the health program for low-income people, ending its status as an open-ended entitlement. States would receive an allotment of federal money for each beneficiary, or, as an alternative, they could take the money in a lump sum as a block grant, with fewer federal requirements. The bill would also repeal many of the taxes imposed by the Affordable Care Act on high-income people, insurers and drug companies, among others. Many of the defenders of the bill focused not so much on its details but on the shortcomings of the Affordable Care Act. “Obamacare has hijacked the free market and has taken some Americans’ liberties with it,” Representative Doug Collins, Republican of Georgia, said on the floor, adding that the health law “replaced our doctors with bureaucrats, because that’s what socialized medicine does.” Mr. Collins said one of the reasons he came to Congress was to “rein in our nation’s bloated, ballooning entitlement system,” and the repeal bill does that, he said, by rolling back the expansion of Medicaid authorized by the law. Representative Michael C. Burgess, Republican of Texas and chairman of the health subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee, said, “The Affordable Care Act has left the individual market in shambles and has driven insurers away from offering coverage.” Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas, said Republicans did not know how much the latest version of the bill would cost taxpayers or how many families would lose health coverage. “They know only that the Pied Piper of Trump Tower is playing a tune today, and they must dance,” he said. “Pathetic,” Representative Jim McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts, said. “That is the word to describe this process and this bill.” He told Republicans: “You are taking away essential health care protections. You are allowing insurance companies to discriminate against people with pre-existing conditions.” In truth, Republicans argued, with so many problems afflicting the Affordable Care Act, the status quo is unsustainable, regardless of what Congress does. Mr. Trump pointed to Aetna’s announcement this week that it would no longer offer policies on Virginia’s Affordable Care Act exchange. “Death spiral!” the president wrote on Twitter.
05.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), Ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, spoke against the Republican health care bill set for a vote today. Rep. Doggett said on the House Floor: “The harsh indifference of these Republicans to the well-being of so many Americans is startling. Trump may temporarily bury the lie central to this plan with a tweet storm, with fake news, but these Republicans who follow him, they will not be able to find an excuse, as one family after another suffers. “Today’s surprise attack on American health care has been widely condemned by health care professionals across the country and those who represent the disabled and sick like the American Cancer Society and March of Dimes. “Jimmy Kimmel – know that your baby was fortunate, but others born with a disability will face the barrier of pre-existing conditions. And they didn’t listen to the AARP, which knows those Americans too young for Medicare by a few years will get socked with unaffordable premiums. “They don’t know what this monstrosity of a bill costs to the taxpayers, they don’t know how many families will lose coverage, how many jobs will be lost; they don’t really know what’s in this bill. They know only that the Pied Piper of Trump Tower is playing a tune today and they must dance. There is much talk about high risk pools—the real high risk pool is the one that everyone who votes for this outrageous proposal is about to plunge into.” The Republican’s American Health Care Act is opposed by many, including the American Medical Association, American Hospital Association, American Cancer Society, and AARP. The bill could take healthcare away from 24 million Americans and strip protections for people with pre-existing conditions, allow lifetime and annual caps on care, and take away the requirement that essential health benefits like maternity care, prescription drugs, and mental health care are covered. You can view Congressman Doggett’s floor speech here. ###
05.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), Ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, issued the following statement after the Republicans’ American Health Care Act was passed by the House of Representatives: “Republicans are dancing to a tune played by the Pied Piper of Trump Tower. While they hear that music, they cannot hear the advice of almost every major group of healthcare professionals or that of public interest groups, like the March of Dimes, the American Heart Association, or the American Cancer Society. There is much talk about high risk pools — the real high-risk pool is the one Republicans dive into with their vote for Trumpcare. And they are swimming with sharks.” Congressman Doggett also spoke on the House Floor this morning prior to the vote. You can find that speech here. Additionally, he spoke at a rally outside the U.S. Capitol against Trumpcare. You can find that speech here. ###
05.01.2017	Climate change activists rallied at the Texas Capitol during President Donald Trump’s 100th day in office to protest state and national policies that deny global warming. Environmental groups held the event Saturday to spread awareness of several aspects of climate change, as well as encourage Texans to influence policymakers who ignore or deny the urgency of the issue. The rally was followed by a march to the University of Texas. “In just 100 days in office, (Trump) has launched an assault on the climate, public lands … and the political agenda of the Trump administration is an attack on all species, including humans,” said Jessica Herrera, media specialist for the Center for Biological Diversity, who spoke at the rally. “The truth is climate change is real. We only have one planet and we are all at risk.” Hundreds of protesters attended the rally, including speakers such as Austin Mayor Steve Adler and Congressman Lloyd Doggett. “The most pressing threat that our planet faces is climate change,” Doggett said. “What we need is alternative energy, not alternative facts. We have a state leadership that deny the climate, and I’m not real sure where they are on gravity.” The rally was one of several around the country sponsored by groups like 350 that organize projects and campaigns focused on climate change. 350 Austin member Jacob Martinez said it is important for politicians to recognize climate change, especially in Texas. “If we change Texas and our energy policy, we change the entire United States,” Martinez said. “We would just like policymakers and people in the government to acknowledge science for what it is and make policy to help shape that. If they were to do that, addressing climate change would be solved sooner.” Janis Bookout, founder of Austin Climate Alliance, urged people to become more involved in the climate change issue, no matter how small the effort. “The impacts of climate change are already happening,” said Bookout. “We have too long been operating under a haze of unreality, as though the impacts of climate change (are) just too abstract, too complex for any individual to make a difference.” After the rally, marchers made their way to UT, protesting the University’s involvement in the oil and gas industry in West Texas. Education graduate student Andrew Costigan, who attended the event, said the school should be supporting alternative energy rather than fossil fuels. “The University is well-entrenched in this industry that is responsible for what could be the demise of civilization on Earth,” Costigan said. “That doesn’t seem so smart for one of the best universities in the world.” Costigan, who is part of the Climate Change Action Committee on campus, said he wants to get more students involved with the issue. “Addressing climate change could really spur a lot of growth and prosperity in this country,” Costigan said. “I think we can figure it out if we can put our heads together.”
04.30.2017	As tens of thousands of demonstrators marched in Washington, D.C., Seattle, Boston, San Francisco and other U.S. cities to demand action on climate change, a smaller but just as fervent group of protesters gathered at a sister rally on the steps of the Texas Capitol. Organizers of the Austin event -- which drew at least 2,000 people, according to a Texas Department of Public Safety head count -- was ostensibly a sequel to last week’s much larger March for Science. But while the science rally organizers had sought to avoid picking partisan sides, the climate rally featured local Democrats, including Austin’s U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, who unabashedly took a shot at the Republican-led Texas Legislature. ”We have a state leadership just like Donald Trump -- that doesn’t believe in evolution, they deny the climate (change), and I’m not real sure where they are on gravity,” Doggett said. “Science seems to be alien to them.” Austin Mayor Steve Adler also spoke, touting the city’s efforts toward “a zero carbon footprint” by 2050 and its goals of saving electricity. The event not only drew politicians, but also parents worried about the planet’s future and the world they would leave to their kids. Stacy MacDiarmid of Austin, who works for the Environmental Defense Fund, brought her two young sons to the rally because she said she wanted them to see what political activism looks like. MacDiarmid said she was disturbed by the use of the Congressional Review Act to repeal Obama-era environmental regulations and by actions taken by President Donald Trump’s Environmental Protection Agency chief, Scott Pruitt, to undermine the Clean Air Act. ”We believe in policies that will work to combat the worst effects of climate change,” MacDiarmid said. Wearing a pink, cat-eared cap popularized during the Women’s March and holding a sign that read “I’m With Her,” with an arrow pointing to an image of Earth, 66-year-old Norman Bean came to the rally from Martindale. Bean said he worries about the environment because he thinks lawmakers are more concerned about the interests of large corporations. ”This is a local thing right here to let our local, state representatives and senators know that we have a conscience and that they can’t just gloss over us,” Bean said. “I hope it makes a difference.”
04.27.2017	Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and National Economic Director Gary Cohn announce President Donald Trump’s tax proposals Wednesday. WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump’s call for a dramatic overhaul of the tax code sets in motion his most ambitious legislative initiative to date, testing whether he can cut the deal of his life on an issue that has long bedeviled Washington. On Wednesday, Trump issued a one-page outline for changes to the tax code, pinpointing numerous changes he would make that would affect almost every American. He wants to replace the seven income tax brackets with three, 10, 25 and 35 percent; cut the corporate tax rate by more than 50 percent; abolish the alternative-minimum tax and estate tax; and create new incentives to simplify filing returns. But the White House stopped short of answering key questions that could decide the plan’s fate. For example, Trump administration officials didn’t address how much the plan would reduce federal revenue or grow the debt. They also didn’t specify what income levels would trigger the new system for paying individual income taxes. The goal, White House officials said, was to cut taxes so much and so fast that it led to immediate economic growth, creating more jobs and producing trillions of dollars in new revenue and wealth over the next decade. Despite its brevity — it was less than 200 words and contained just seven numbers — the document marked the most pointed blueprint Trump has presented Congress on any matter. “This is about economic growth, job creation, America first, and that’s what (Trump) cares about,” White House National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn said. “Our tax plan is a big leg of that stool. It’s a big leg. And in many respects, he thinks it’s the most important leg.” The plan now must navigate a legislative and political gantlet on Capitol Hill that has killed numerous other efforts to rework the tax code. President Ronald Reagan was the last to shepherd a major tax overhaul through Washington, but he did it by working with Democrats to cut a deal. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Wednesday that he would like to negotiate details of the plan with Democrats but would cut them out of talks if necessary and seek only support from Republicans, perhaps by pursuing a strategy known as “reconciliation.” Using that process, a tax overhaul could escape a 60-vote requirement in the Senate, but it also would have a 10-year expiration date. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett’s reaction mirrored Democratic opposition sounding in Congress. “The claim that his multitrillion dollar tax cut will pay for itself is as incredible as the claim that Mexico will pay for his multibillion dollar border wall,” Doggett, D-San Antonio, said in a release. Doggett, the lead Democrat on the Ways and Means tax-writing panel, has pressed without success for a vote to force Trump to release his tax returns. “Without an end to the Republican cover-up of Trump’s tax returns, we cannot determine whether this is mostly just more self-enrichment for the Trump family,” Doggett added. Trump’s proposal now poses key tests for both parties. Republicans, who for years chided President Barack Obama about any plan to raise the deficit, must decide whether to back a plan that many budget experts believe will add to record levels of government debt. The Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget said the plan would likely lead to a loss in government revenue by roughly $5.5 trillion over 10 years. But so far, key Republicans praised the core of Trump’s plan and signaled a willingness to negotiate with him on key details. Speaking Wednesday on Capitol Hill, House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) called Trump’s framework “a critical step forward in this effort.” “We’ve been briefed on what they are going to do, and it is basically along exactly the same lines we want to go,” Ryan said. “So we see this as progress being made, showing that we are moving and getting on the same page. We see this as a good thing.” Democrats, meanwhile, must decide whether to negotiate with a Republican president who is threatening to pull away tax revenue that pays for many of their cherished social programs. “This is an unprincipled tax plan that will result in cuts for the (wealthiest Americans), conflicts for the president, crippling debt for America and crumbs for the working people,” said Sen. Ron Wyden, Ore., the top Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee. Trump’s proposal includes major changes to both of the major elements of the tax code, the individual side and the business side. The proposal would also roughly double the standard deduction that Americans can use to reduce their taxable income. The deduction for married couples would rise from $12,600 to $24,000. This would incentivize people not to itemize their tax returns and instead use the larger standard deduction, simplifying the process and potentially saving taxpayers thousands of dollars each year. It may also change how people value certain tax breaks: For example, fewer people might buy homes with the help of the mortgage interest deduction if they don’t itemize their taxes. The White House plan would eliminate the alternative-minimum tax and the estate tax, provisions that raise billions of dollars each year and mainly raise the taxes paid by wealthier Americans. To offset the loss of revenue from lower tax rates and other changes, Cohn and Mnuchin said they were proposing to eliminate virtually all tax deductions that Americans claim, provisions that they argued primarily benefited wealthier Americans. Cohn said they would preserve tax breaks for mortgage interest, retirement savings and charitable giving. But almost all others would be jettisoned. For businesses, Trump’s proposal would lower the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 15 percent. The White House is also proposing a one-time tax “holiday” to encourage companies to bring several trillions of dollars held in other countries back into the United States. They didn’t specify what that tax rate would be, saying it’s part of negotiations on Capitol Hill, but they said they believed providing this incentive would bring money back for investment and hiring. “We expect that trillions of dollars will come back on shore and will be reinvested here in the United States, for capital goods and job creation,” Mnuchin said. A key part of Trump’s tax plan during the campaign was to levy a tax or tariff against companies that move overseas and then try to sell their products back to U.S. consumers. Cohn and Mnuchin said they were still looking at alternatives on how to structure this idea, and it was not an element of the plan rolled out Wednesday. Mnuchin said their goal was to permanently change the tax code, but they would consider a shorter-term change if necessary to win political support. “This is what’s important to get the American economy going,” Mnuchin said. “So I hope (Democrats) don’t stand in the way. And I hope we see many Democrats who cross the aisle and support this. Having said that, if they don’t, we are prepared to look at the reconciliation process.”
04.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), Ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee reacts to the Administration’s tax cut proposal as President Trump stumbles to the 100 day mark: “The claim that his multi-trillion dollar tax cut will pay for itself is as incredible as the claim that Mexico will pay for his multi-billion dollar border wall. Dripping in red ink, this proposal validates Trump’s boast that he is ‘the king of debt.’ For Trump and his cohorts, ‘fiscal responsibility’ is just a political slogan used to undermine the vital education, health care, and social services that they oppose, not a genuine commitment to restraining the national debt. “Boasting of his previous influence in bending the Tax Code to his whim, Trump claims only he can fix it. But will he ‘fix’ it for himself, or fix it for the middle class? Without an end to the Republican cover-up of Trump’s tax returns, we cannot determine whether this is mostly just more self-enrichment for the Trump family. “His international tax plan lowers taxes on investment abroad, incentivizing companies to export jobs and profits. And he rewards corporate tax dodgers, who have previously stripped earnings from American sales and buried their treasure in exotic foreign tax havens, by taxing them at a mere dime on the dollar. “Trump talks like a populist but governs like a plutocrat. Like the near trillion dollar tax cut in the failed health care bill that he endorsed, Trump’s tax plan fills the coffers of giant corporations and lines the pockets of the superrich.” Attached here is a document with more about Donald Trump’s Amazing Tax Adventure Across the Incredibility Gap. ###
04.24.2017	Familiar battle lines were drawn over regulations aimed at stopping inversions after President Donald Trump ordered a broad review of tax regulations Friday. Critics revived their complaints that the rules went too far, and Trump and his team may agree. But supporters of the regulations said any move to water down or revoke them would reopen the door to corporations gaming the tax system and violate Trump's campaign pledge to crack down on U.S. companies that move abroad. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin acknowledged that the Section 385 regulation that the Obama administration issued late last year would be under the microscope. “It’s obviously one of the significant things and one of the things we will be looking at,” Mnuchin said. Trump’s executive order, which he signed Friday, instructs Treasury to review all significant tax regulations the Obama administration put in place last year and determine if they cause undue financial burdens, are needlessly complex, create unnecessary requirements or step beyond legal boundaries. Opponents of Section 385 — a two-part regulation to redefine debt and stock equity and limit serial inversions — believe Treasury’s examination will lead to getting rid of the guidelines, even if the executive order is largely symbolic. “We see today’s action as a positive sign that the administration, and Secretary Mnuchin in particular, will take a hard look at regulations that I believe garnered more concern from the business community than any other Treasury regulation in my lifetime,” said Nancy McLernon, president and CEO of the Organization for International Investment. More than 6 million U.S. jobs are part of foreign companies’ U.S. operations, including 2.4 million in the manufacturing sector, according to the global investment group. They face higher taxes and compliance costs under the Section 385 rules, McLernon said. McLernon recently brought a group of foreign corporate executives to a meeting with Mnuchin in which they urged him to rescind the 385 rules, and they expect to continue that dialogue. Any move against the rules wouldn't be immediate, though, cautioned former Treasury official Eric Solomon, who co-directs National Tax and the Americas Tax Center for EY. “Some regulations could in fact reflect policies that the Administration might favor,” he said in a statement. “After the determination is made whether to modify or revoke particular regulations, IRS and Treasury generally will follow notice and comment procedures to modify or withdraw them, so one must understand that this will take some time.” The review will be comprehensive, Mnuchin said, including the 385 rules and other regulations. An estate tax-related rule to change how family businesses are valued also proved unpopular in the business community. Builders who belong to the Associated General Contractors of America have weighed in with Trump administration agencies on both the valuation discount and Section 385, and will continue to do so. “This is Trump trying to show people he’s doing stuff and making sure the agencies have the guidance,” said Jeffrey Shoaf, the group’s senior executive director of government affairs. “He doesn’t know other ways except to tell them as publicly as possible, and this seems like a pretty public way to do it.” A statement from House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) encouraged the administration to work to roll back the Section 385 and estate tax regulations. “This Executive Order is another important step to make our tax system simpler, fairer, and more pro-growth,” he said. Opponents of the 385 rules, which Treasury finalized last year, said they went too far in allowing the federal government to reclassify debt as stock equity, in particular. That recharacterization authority is meant to limit the appeal for foreign-based companies to use intra-company loans to their U.S. subsidiaries and cut their tax bills in the process, a practice known as earnings stripping. But supporters of the 385 rules said repealing or rewriting them could open the door to more inversions. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (R-Texas) said the regulation has accomplished what it was supposed to: keep U.S. companies from skipping out on their tax bills. He lauded the regulation for sidelining a merger of pharmaceutical titans Pfizer and Allergan and faulted Trump for breaking campaign pledges. “This is just another unnecessary Trump rhetorical executive order, but it and Treasury Secretary Mnuchin’s related comments signal that Trump’s previous big talk about getting tough on companies that move offshore represents just another broken promise,” a statement from Doggett said. Rep. Sandy Levin (D-Mich.), who like Doggett sits on Ways and Means, said in a statement: “Signaling that restrictions on such inversions might be eliminated or watered down is not putting America first — it’s telling companies it is acceptable for them to renounce their citizenship by moving their addresses overseas to avoid paying U.S. taxes, while still reaping the benefits of effectively being based in the U.S.” Foes of the debt-equity recharacterization should sue the administration in court if they want redress, said Frank Clemente, executive director of Americans for Tax Fairness. Trump’s position conflicts with supporters who voted him into office, he added. Ultimately, tax reform legislation should obviate the need for these rules, Clemente said. Mnuchin said the review wouldn’t conflict with tax reform efforts, and wouldn’t reignite corporate plans to relocate abroad as part of strategies to minimize tax obligations.
04.20.2017	Dem Leader and Lloyd Doggett lead roundtable on Obamacare By: Michael King, 4/20/17 U.S. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi was in town this morning, joining Austin Rep. Lloyd Doggett at a roundtable sponsored by Seton/Ascension health care. Follogin a tour of the nearly complete new Dell Seton hospital, the two officials hosted a discussion focused on the role of the Affordable Care Act. Nancy Pelosi and Lloyd Doggett (Photo by Jana Birchum) With more than a dozen panelists joining the two officials in the Clinical Education Center of UMC-Brackenridge, the hour-long discussion was a fairly high-speed overview of the ACA. But the panelists did manage to review what the law has meant to many people who previously were uninsured and without access to regular medical care, the current threats from the Trump Administration (and others) against the law, and what still needs to be done to provide broader and more effective U.S. health care. In a fairly remarkable feat of moderating legerdemain, Doggett – introduced as a “Seton baby, father of Seton daughters, grandfather of Seton grandchildren” – managed to draw everyone at the table into the discussion, and beyond them a couple of attendees with a professional interest in the subject. Among the panelists were: host Yvonne VanDyke, chief nursing officer for Seton Healthcare Family; Larry Wallace, interim CEO of Central Health; Elizabeth Colvin of Insure Central Texas and Foundation Communities; Dr. Mark Hernandez, chief medical officer for Community Care Collaborative. Musicians Ben Kweller, Tate Mayeux, and Daisy O’Connor were also on hand, sharing personal stories of the role of the ACA as well as the Health Alliance for Austin Musicians in helping them and their families – and representatives of Austin’s tech community shared similar stories. If there was a running theme throughout the conversation, it was along the lines of “the ACA is absolutely necessary, but it isn’t enough.” The medical professionals described how, under the ACA, their patients have received health care that was previously unavailable, and also how it too often stops short of continuity, or indirectly denies care to some who need it most – e.g., in Texas, where the state’s refusal to accept Medicaid expansion has left many patients in “the gap” between the destitute and those who earn enough to qualify for insurance through the ACA marketplace. The most striking anecdotes in that vein were from Lorie Miller, an oncology “nurse navigator” for Seton cancer patients. She recalled patients with no hope of care who were suddenly able to receive it under the ACA rules; she also recalled some who initially received treatment, but who found that after they received a certain level of Social Security disability income, they were dropped from continuing care because their income level had, mid-treatment, become “too high.” Several speakers addressed two ACA provisions that had been crucial to their lives: 1) the “pre-existing condition” provision, that allowed them to qualify for insurance coverage even with health conditions that might have previously disqualified them; 2) the movability provision, meaning they could change jobs or take the risk of starting their own businesses while maintaining their health insurance, and not be restricted to “job-lock” by insurance needs. Bill Blackstone, of Galvanize and Rackspace Austin, said that his work as an entrepreneur would have been impossible without the protections of the ACA. Barbary Brunner of the Austin Technology Council told similar tales, and noted that tech workers, like musicians – and often the roles overlap – work in risky professions that often can only be sustained with the safety net of health insurance. Wrapping up the discussion, Pelosi welcomed Kweller’s description of the 20 million additional Americans covered by the ACA – aka “Obamacare” – as a “Double Diamond” achievement (in music industry parlance), and said she would be eagerly passing on that praise to Barack Obama. She and Doggett urged the audience to continue to turn out to support the law, as the two officials exchanged compliments for their roles in the initial adoption. Pelosi called Doggett “brilliant, impatient, persistent” in his advocacy for health care; Doggett credited Pelosi with insisting upon “health care as a right, not a privilege.” “Public sentiment is everything,” said Pelosi, quoting Abraham Lincoln, and Doggett urged continued citizen engagement to defend the ACA. In a brief followup exchange, Doggett told the Chronicle that Trump had momentarily pulled back from a direct assault on the law – “that should enable insurance companies making decisions now about next year’s coverage to plan that coverage” – but that Trump might yet decide to undermine the law by cuts in appropriations, or other strategies. Pelosi said that while the ACA has been the immediate target of Republican reaction, the full GOP intention is to “get rid of the public role” in health care, eventually targeting Medicaid, Medicare, and even Social Security in that campaign. “We have a real fight on our hands,” Pelosi said. “We have pushed open the gate to save lives, but there is more work to be done.”
04.20.2017	AUSTIN, Texas — Republican state lawmakers, closely tracking Obamacare repeal efforts in Washington, may look to reopen the state's shuttered high-risk pool to insure Texans who can’t get coverage elsewhere. Bills in the Texas House and Senate would allow the state insurance commissioner to set up a temporary high-risk pool if federal funds become available. Both bills, which have passed out of committee, leave open whether the pool would be a separate program for the sickest Texans — similar to the previous high-risk pool — or a reinsurance-like scheme that would backstop insurers' claims in the individual market. The stalled Obamacare repeal bill in Washington would encourage states to set up either mechanism. In Texas, the high-risk pool bills prohibit using the funds to expand the state’s Medicaid program and rely mostly on potential federal funding to operate. “Texas has been very straightforward about” wanting to repeal Obamacare, said state Rep. Larry Phillips, who authored the House bill on high-risk pools. State Sen. Kelly Hancock, who authored the Senate version, said that his bill “would put a plan in place so Texas is prepared for whatever comes out of D.C.” But critics of high-risk pools say they wouldn’t be an adequate substitute for people who might lose coverage under repeal of the Affordable Care Act. A high-risk pool that operated in Texas before Obamacare, similar to pools elsewhere, had a troubled history. It covered a fraction of uninsured Texans at rates more than double regular market coverage. “It was grossly inadequate to take care of the needs of people in the state,” Texas Rep. Lloyd Doggett told POLITICO about the previous high-risk pool. Doggett was in Austin with Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi to tout Obamacare on Thursday. Texas' former high-risk pool, which opened in 1998 and was dissolved in 2014 when the ACA took effect, covered 30,000 Texans out of 6 million uninsured at the time. Phillips defended the state’s previous high-risk pool, saying the state was starting to bring down premiums before it closed. In 2014, the pool collected more in revenue than it paid out in claims. “I think it was probably in its best shape when the Affordable Care Act came,” Phillips said. “We were getting towards that — to get those premiums down, to try to make it work.” Stacey Pogue of the left-leaning Center for Public Policy Priorities said that deductibles in the high-risk pool climbed to $10,000 a year and enrollees dropped out as costs grew. Even with subsidies, which were later added, many low-income Texans couldn’t afford the cost of coverage, she said. Pogue said a reinsurance-like plan might make sense, depending on the details. However, setting up a separate high-risk pool is a “terrible idea,” she said. “Old high-risk pools are a relic of an era when insurers could deny coverage to people with pre-existing conditions," she said.
04.07.2017	Over 50 members of Congress are calling on President Donald Trump to direct the National Institutes of Health to issue guidance on when it will exercise so called “march-in rights,” effectively canceling exclusivity when patented drugs are not available on reasonable terms. The lawmakers and one consumer advocacy group held up the process as a solution to Trump’s promise to bring down drug prices. Products that were developed at least in part by federal funding are subject to march-in rights, whereby NIH can require a company license its patent to another party when “action is necessary to alleviate health and safety needs which are not being reasonably satisfied,” or when the benefits of existing patents are not “available to the public on reasonable terms.” NIH was granted this power by the Bayh-Dole Act of 1980, but it has never exercised it. The lawmakers argue such guidance would aide manufacturers in “[making] better-informed pricing decisions,” in addition to helping patients. ”Drug manufacturers and patients need clarity. We urge you to direct NIH to issue public guidelines on the circumstances that will likely require it to invoke taxpayer protection rights. Reasonable and transparent guidelines would discourage drug price gouging and create a more competitive market for drugs developed using tax dollars. American taxpayers should be able to access publicly-funded medications on reasonable terms, instead of being burdened with unreasonable prices,” the letter spearheaded by Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) states. While the lawmakers don’t go as far as asking Trump to direct NIH to use the provision, they highlight NIH’s refusal to hold a hearing on the use of march-in rights for cancer drug Xtandi. A group of lawmakers in March 2016 urged the institutes to hold that hearing after NIH was petitioned by Knowledge Ecology International and the Union for Affordable Cancer Treatment to exercise march-in rights for that drug. The lawmakers argue that directing NIH to provide clarity on this provision could at least partially deliver on Trump’s promise to rein in high drug prices. ”We write regarding your oft-stated commitment to bring down pharmaceutical prices. You have said that the pharmaceutical industry is ‘getting away with murder’ and called drug prices ‘astronomical.’ We urge you to use your existing statutory authority to respond to soaring drug costs harming so many American families...Your Administration already has legal authority to prevent pricing excesses by promoting competition, while protecting taxpayer investments and addressing the failures of government-approved monopolies,” the letter continues. Public Citizen also held up march-in rights as an answer to drug pricing in an April 4 press release applauding the letter. “American taxpayers support the essential research for many new classes of medications and other medical technologies, through the National Institutes of Health (NIH), to the tune of $30 billion a year. Prescription medication corporations rip off American taxpayers when they turn around and charge outrageous monopoly prices for the same life-or-death medicines, forcing the rationing of the health care we need. We have the right, and the incoming administration has the power, to authorize competition when corporations price gouge people,” Peter Maybarduk, director of Public Citizen’s Access to Medicines Program, wrote. Lawmakers increasingly appear to be eying termination of exclusivity as an answer to what they see as unscrupulous pharmaceutical industry behavior. Provisions in a new bill introduced by Sen. Al Franken (D-MN) would terminate a variety of exclusivities in the event a company is found to have violated certain laws.
04.06.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, is introducing the Equitable Student Aid Access Act, which would simplify the not-so-simple FFASA and help students access federal financial aid. “Too many students find the FAFSA too complicated to complete, so they lose access to available financial aid, causing many to abandon college education,” said Rep. Lloyd Doggett. “Students who failed to complete the FAFSA could have received millions in federal assistance. My bill, like my prior successful FAFSA legislation, is designed to take the next step in removing unnecessary obstacles to ease access to student financial aid. All students who qualify for Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, or food assistance through SNAP, for example, would be able to complete a shorter form FAFSA to access the full Pell Grant amount. The bill also codifies that the FAFSA is available earlier, in October, and broadens access to the full Pell Grant amount for some of our most struggling families.” “I have spoken out against President Trump’s proposed budget cuts, including slashing funding for the Department of Education by 13.5 percent. We need to invest in education and in our students, not cut funding.” The National College Access Network demonstrated full support for this bill: “This bill is an important next step in the endeavor to simplify access to federal student aid for low-income students, and the National College Access Network is pleased to support it,” said Executive Director Kim Cook. “Families who receive means-tested benefits should not have to prove again and again that they are poor. The other elements of the bill return old benefits and make permanent new ones, but the change to allow families receiving particular means-tested benefits families to be guaranteed a full Pell Grant is one that NCAN strongly supports to better serve our students.” The bill is also supported by the National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators and National Association for College Admission Counseling. The Equitable Student Aid Access Act currently has 63 cosponsors. ###
04.06.2017	Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas, and Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, D-R.I., have introduced legislation to discourage the use of corporate tax havens. The Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act, backed by more than 50 other lawmakers, along with the Corporate EXIT Fairness Act, would curb some tax strategies such as deferral and "check the box" that encourage companies to shift jobs and profits to foreign countries. The legislation also aims to curtail corporate tax inversions. The Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act would eliminate tax incentives for U.S. companies to shift jobs and operations offshore, ending tax strategies that enable large multinationals to avoid taxes by shifting profits to offshore tax havens. Under current law, a company can elect to defer paying taxes on profits, while deducting the expenses incurred to produce the profits. The bill would require companies to delay taking deductions until they pay taxes on the related profits. The bill would also end the ability of companies to simply “check the box” on a tax form to say some of their foreign subsidiaries don’t exist for tax purposes. The bill would also make it easier for the IRS to get the names of owners of foreign bank accounts, and increase penalties for corporate insiders who fail to disclose their offshore activity. The bill would discourage U.S. companies from incorporating abroad by deeming corporations worth $50 million or more that are managed and controlled in the U.S. to be U.S. taxpayers. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimates this bill would save tens of billions of dollars over the next decade. The Corporate EXIT Fairness Act would tighten rules and take away tax incentives for corporate inversions. The bill would apply an exit tax to any U.S. company changing to foreign control, preventing the new foreign company from accessing tax-free cash of U.S. subsidiary. It would impose an exit tax as the greater of two calculations: either the tax owed on accumulated deferred foreign income of the U.S. controlled foreign corporation, or the tax on the appreciation in value of the U.S. controlled foreign corporation. “Americans citizens who renounce their citizenship must pay an exit tax,” Doggett said in a statement. “American corporations should too. Corporations that renounce their citizenship not only invert their business operations, they pervert our tax laws. And, instead of rewarding multinationals that revel in single digit effective tax rates, I propose to shut the door on loopholes they exploit, leveling the playing field for small businesses.” The bill would also tighten restrictions on corporate inversions, increasing the threshold of foreign ownership required to accomplish the inversion for tax purposes, while imposing an independent management-and-control test that might prevent other attempted inversions. If a company does not accomplish its tax-avoiding inversion aim under the tighter threshold levels set by the bill, then it would continue to be taxed as a U.S. company. “Hard working Rhode Islanders can’t use tax havens to avoid paying their taxes,” said Whitehouse in a statement. “Corporations and hedge fund managers shouldn’t be able to either. This bill would make the tax code fairer for American companies that play by the rules.” Similar legislation has been introduced by Democrats in previous congressional terms, particularly by former Sen. Carl Levin of MIchigan, but has not advanced far in the Republican-controlled Congress of recent years. However, with Congress now getting ready for a comprehensive tax reform overhaul, Democrats are re-introducing some of their past proposals. Both bills have been endorsed by the Financial Accountability and Corporate Transparency (FACT) Coalition, Americans for Tax Fairness, Fair Share, the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, the Main Street Alliance, Oxfam America, Public Citizen, U.S. PIRG, and American Sustainable Business Council. A recent U.S. PIRG report found that at least 73 percent of Fortune 500 companies operate subsidiaries in offshore tax havens. “Taxpayers and small businesses shouldn’t have to pick up the tab for companies that hide their income in offshore destinations,” said U.S. PIRG tax and budget associate Allie Robins in a statement. “When companies rely on our workforce, our infrastructure, and our robust markets to earn their profits, they shouldn’t then play games and use gimmicks to avoid their taxes.” Other groups also offered praise for the bill. “The Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act and the Corporate EXIT Fairness Act offer the type of tax reform we need—they would close unfair tax loopholes that allow multinational companies to offshore profits and escape responsibility for paying their fair share,” said FACT Coalition deputy director Clark Gascoigne in a statement. “Tax haven abuse now costs American taxpayers up to $180 billion per year. When multinational companies and wealthy individuals abuse tax havens, it’s domestic businesses and middle-class Americans who get left picking up the tab. The reforms in these bills could and should garner bipartisan support, while offering more sensible and popular reforms than the radical alternatives that are dividing the Congress, including the border adjustment tax.” Eric LeCompte, executive director of Jubilee USA Network, a religious development organization, said in a statement, “Governments around the world need greater revenues to meet their budgets. Congress needs to pass legislation that closes loopholes. This legislation helps shine a spotlight on the problem of tax havens. It helps track where companies are paying or not paying taxes. Tax avoidance, evasion and corruption are too often thefts from the poor and we have a moral imperative to act.”
04.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), a senior Member of the House Ways and Means Committee and Ranking Member of the Tax Policy Subcommittee, introduced two bills – the Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act, joined by over 50 other Members of Congress, and the Corporate EXIT Fairness Act (Corporate Expatriates and Inverters Tax Fairness Act). These bills would: close offshore loopholes that encourage companies to shift jobs and profits offshore, curtail corporate inversions, and crack down on some of the illegal tax evasion exposed by the “Panama Papers,” one year ago this week. Rep. Lloyd Doggett said: “While families work to pay their taxes before the upcoming deadline, ‘tax day’ is more aptly called ‘tax break day’ for many multinational corporations. The importance of contributing to our national security and vital public services is understood by most Americans but not by those who exploit loopholes to dodge their fair share. “President Trump has talked a big game about getting tough on companies that move offshore, but his proposals so far would only reward tax-dodging multinationals. “Americans citizens who renounce their citizenship must pay an exit tax. American corporations should too. Corporations that renounce their citizenship not only invert their business operations, they pervert our tax laws. And, instead of rewarding multinationals that revel in single digit effective tax rates, I propose to shut the door on loopholes they exploit, leveling the playing field for small businesses. Senator Whitehouse said: “Hard working Rhode Islanders can’t use tax havens to avoid paying their taxes. Corporations and hedge fund managers shouldn’t be able to either. This bill would make the tax code fairer for American companies that play by the rules.” The Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act would eliminate tax incentives for U.S. companies to move jobs and operations offshore, close loopholes that allow large multinationals to avoid taxes by shifting profits to offshore tax havens, and crack down on illegal tax evasion by the wealthy: Under current law, a company can choose to defer paying taxes on profits, while deducting the expenses incurred to produce the profits. The bill would require companies to delay taking deductions until they pay taxes on the related profits. Right now, companies are allowed to simply “check the box” on an IRS form and pretend that some of their foreign subsidiaries don’t exist for tax purposes. The bill would repeal this nonsensical rule. The bill would make it easier for the IRS to obtain the names of the owners of suspicious foreign bank accounts. It would also increase penalties for corporate insiders who fail to disclose offshore dealings. Some U.S. corporations are organized in tax havens, like the Cayman Islands, but really do business in the United States. For instance, one modest building in the Cayman Islands, Ugland House, is the legal home of over 18,000 companies, many of them really American companies in every other sense. This bill would discourage U.S. companies from incorporating abroad by deeming corporations worth $50 million or more that are managed and controlled in the U.S. to be U.S. taxpayers. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimates that this bill would save tens of billions of dollars over the next decade. Click here to see a full summary of the legislation, which was introduced today in the Senate by Senator Sheldon Whitehouse. The Corporate EXIT Fairness Act would tighten rules and take away tax incentives for corporate inversions. The bill would: Apply an exit tax to any U.S. firm changing to foreign control, preventing the new foreign firm from accessing tax-free cash of U.S. subsidiary. Impose an exit tax as the greater of two calculations: Tax owed on accumulated deferred foreign income of the U.S. controlled foreign corporation, or Tax on the appreciation in value of the U.S. controlled foreign corporation. Tighten restrictions on corporate inversions, including increasing the threshold of foreign ownership required to accomplish the inversion for tax purposes, and imposing an independent management-and-control test that may prevent other attempted inversions. If a firm does not accomplish its tax-avoiding inversion aim under these tighter thresholds, then it will continue to be taxed as an American firm. Both bills have been endorsed by the Financial Accountability and Corporate Transparency (FACT) Coalition, Americans for Tax Fairness, Fair Share, the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, the Main Street Alliance, Oxfam America, Public Citizen, U.S. PIRG, Flobal Financial Integrity, and the American Sustainable Business Council. ###
04.04.2017	Washington, D.C.—Today, 51 members of Congress, led by U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), urged President Donald Trump to fulfill his oft-repeated promise to lower prescription drug prices. Rep. Doggett and his colleagues asked President Trump to protect public access to drugs developed with public dollars. Rep. Doggett, a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee and a leader of the House Prescription Drug Task Force, said: “Today, we are calling Trump’s hand on his promises to lower prescription drug prices. To date he has failed completely to fulfill his commitment. So far his only related legislative action was to endorse a $28.5 billion tax windfall for brand name drug makers, while seeking nothing in return for consumers. He can act immediately to discourage many drug makers from charging the public sky-high prices on drugs developed with public dollars. “When taxpayers finance pharmaceutical research, they have earned the right to obtain affordable access to that medication. And that is not happening now. Instead, taxpayers are hit twice for too many drugs—once when they pay for drug research and again when the pharmaceutical company engages in price gouging. When drug makers are granted unrestricted, government-approved monopolies and exploit them to set monopoly prices, a diagnosis of a dread disease can become a prognosis for financial ruin.” The letter explains that federal agencies, like the National Institutes of Health (NIH), can foster competition by requiring companies holding patents for publicly-funded inventions to license the patent to third parties. This authority was created by the Bayh-Dole Act, a 1980 statute, and can be used when “action is necessary to alleviate health and safety needs which are not being reasonably satisfied” or when the benefits of the taxpayer-funded drug are not “available to the public on reasonable terms.” This effort is supported by Public Citizen, Doctors for America, Consumers Union, and Knowledge Ecology International. The Prescription Drug Task Force aims to advance legislative and administrative solutions to lower the cost of prescription medications for American families. April 4, 2017 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, D.C. 20500 Re: Use Existing Taxpayer Protection Rights Law to Lower Prescription Drug Prices Now Dear President Trump, We write regarding your oft-stated commitment to bring down pharmaceutical prices. You have said that the pharmaceutical industry is “getting away with murder” and called drug prices “astronomical.” We urge you to use your existing statutory authority to respond to soaring drug costs harming so many American families. Currently, the federal government grants companies (including foreign companies) monopoly pricing power to overcharge American taxpayers for life-saving medications developed through taxpayer-financed research. The government prevents competitors from entering the market, thus removing any market forces that might keep drugs affordable. Your Administration already has legal authority to prevent pricing excesses by promoting competition, while protecting taxpayer investments and addressing the failures of government-approved monopolies. This health and taxpayer protection issue is one that the prior Administration declined to address. When taxpayer-funded federal research results in a new drug patent, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) is permitted to require the patent holder to license the federally-funded intellectual property to third parties, under certain circumstances. This power, granted in 1980 through the Bayh-Dole Act, authorizes federal agencies that fund private research to retain certain rights in patented inventions. Under 35 U.S.C. §203(a)(2), when “action is necessary to alleviate health and safety needs which are not being reasonably satisfied” or, as noted in 35 U.S.C. §201(f), when the benefits of the patented product are not “available to the public on reasonable terms,” the government can assert what are sometimes called “march-in rights,” but would be better described as “taxpayer protection rights.” By exercising these rights, the government can encourage competition and lower prices by allowing other manufacturers to produce and sell the taxpayer-funded drug. Unfortunately, NIH has never utilized this taxpayer protection law. Drug manufacturers and patients need clarity. We urge you to direct NIH to issue public guidelines on the circumstances that will likely require it to invoke taxpayer protection rights. Reasonable and transparent guidelines would discourage drug price gouging and create a more competitive market for drugs developed using tax dollars. American taxpayers should be able to access publicly-funded medications on reasonable terms, instead of being burdened with unreasonable prices. Last year, NIH also refused to hold a hearing on whether to exercise its statutory rights on Xtandi, a prostate cancer drug developed at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) through taxpayer-supported research grants, but licensed to a Japanese company. As a result, Americans are still paying two to four times more than consumers in other high-income countries for a life-saving medication developed with our tax dollars—without even the benefit of a public hearing to determine why NIH refused to protect taxpayers. We are confident that reasonable guidance can be developed to address price gouging with transparency and fairness. We want pharmaceutical manufacturers to have the certainty of clear guidelines that indicate when taxpayer protection rights would apply, so that they can perform in a constructive way that avoids ever necessitating use of this extraordinary remedy. Since companies that do not engage in price gouging would not be affected, innovation and industry partnerships with public research institutions would not be threatened. With adequate guidance, pharmaceutical companies should make better-informed pricing decisions that reflect the value of the taxpayer investment. High prescription drug prices are not limited to one treatment or one disease. Rising prices are reflected in ballooning Medicare and Medicaid drug budgets, and hit consumers through rising premiums, greater cost-sharing, and the higher prevalence of high-deductible plans. With drug prices continuing to soar and Americans continuing to struggle to access life-saving medications, your quick use of this taxpayer protection law will provide significant help to American families. We look forward to your prompt response on this strategy to promote competition, target bad actors, and protect taxpayer investments. Sincerely, 1. Lloyd Doggett 2. Jan Schakowsky 3. Rosa DeLauro 4. Peter Welch 5. Mark Pocan 6. John Yarmuth 7. Peter Visclosky 8. Louise Slaughter 9. Beto O’Rourke 10. Chellie Pingree 11. Eleanor Holmes Norton 12. Richard M. Nolan 13. Jerrold Nadler 14. Gwen Moore 15. Michelle Lujan Grisham 16. John Lewis 17. Barbara Lee 18. Brenda L. Lawrence 19. Ro Khanna 20. Marcy Kaptur 21. Priyanka Jayapal 22. Sheila Jackson Lee 23. Earl Blumenauer 24. Matt Cartwright 25. Kathy Castor 26. Judy Chu 27. David N. Cicilline 28. Emmanuel Cleaver II 29. Steve Cohen 30. John Conyers, Jr. 31. Elijah Cummings 32. Peter A. DeFazio 33. Keith Ellison 34. Mark DeSaulnier 35. Theodore E. Deutch 36. John Garamendi 37. Al Green 38. Raúl M. Grijalva 39. Luis V. Gutiérrez 40. Alcee L. Hastings 41. Grace Napolitano 42. Bobby Scott 43. Alan Lowenthal 44. Suzanne Bonamici 45. Bennie G. Thompson 46. José E. Serrano 47. Jamie Raskin 48. Carol Shea-Porter 49. Mark Takano 50. Karen Bass 51. Brian Higgins
03.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Today Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Senior Member of the House Ways and Means Committee and Ranking Member of the Tax Policy Subcommittee, spoke in support of a resolution that would direct the Secretary of the Treasury to provide President Trump’s federal tax returns to Congress. During this Committee consideration, Rep. Lloyd Doggett said: “We have tried before to get President Trump’s tax returns; this will be the third time. The Committee has clearly struck out on this issue. The cover-up will eventually be uncovered. It is just a question of how long it will go on. “This is a gentleman who has bragged during the course of his campaign about his ability to manipulate Members of Congress and to get pretty much whatever he wants in the tax code. ‘I know our complex tax laws better than anyone,’ President Trump said, ‘better than anyone who has ever run for president and I’m the only one who can fix it.’ The question is whether he’s going to fix them for himself, or fix them for the American people. Without those tax returns, we won’t know what conflicts may exist for him, what kind of self-dealing may exist for him -- we will never know. We want to know whether he will benefit personally from the tax law changes he seeks and that is why are asking for his returns.” On February 14, Rep. Lloyd Doggett filed an amendment to authorize the Ways and Means Committee to obtain President Trump’s tax returns. The Committee voted on party-lines, denying the amendment 23-15. On March 8, Rep. Doggett once again filed an amendment to get the Committee to use its authority to obtain President Trump’s tax returns. The Committee majority refused a vote on the amendment, deeming it not germane. You can view Rep. Doggett’s committee remarks from today here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ghiWrpbAeEE&feature=youtu.be ###
03.27.2017	GOP struggles to move past issue As folks line up to pose questions, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, speaks during a town hall meeting about health care at La Trinidad United Methodist Church. As Republicans in Washington tried their best to maneuver past the failure to get enough votes in the House to pass their health care bill, constituents of Lloyd Doggett’s congressional district, which runs along Interstate 35 to Austin, met in South San Antonio on Saturday. The congressman made it clear that the canceled vote was a victory for Democrats. Friday, “I think, was a great day. While we know that there are many things that can be done to strengthen and improve the Affordable Care Act, that junking it was not a reasonable alternative.” Doggett said. “The resistance won, but if you’re a Star Wars fan, remember the empire struck back. This is not over.” Billy Calzada / San Antonio Express-News Meanwhile the collapse of the Republican health care bill now imperils the rest of President Donald Trump’s ambitious congressional agenda. The Washington Post reported Saturday that congressional Republicans have few prospects for quick victory on tax revisions, construction projects or a host of other issues in the months ahead despite complete GOP control of government. While Republicans broadly share the goal of Trump’s promised “big tax cuts,” the president will have to bridge many of the same divides within his own party that sank the attempted overhaul of the ACA. And without savings anticipated from the health care bill, paying for the “massive” cuts Trump has promised for corporations and middle-class families becomes considerably more complicated. Meanwhile, other marquee agenda items, including a $1 trillion investment in roads and other infrastructure and proposed crackdowns on both legal and illegal immigration, will require the support of Democrats, many of whom have been alienated by the highly partisan start to Trump’s tenure. The lone exception for near-term victory could come with the confirmation of Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch — but even that faces the prospect of a threatened filibuster by Democrats. Trump and Republican leaders continued Saturday in their attempts to put a brave face on the health care debacle. “ObamaCare will explode and we will all get together and piece together a great healthcare plan for THE PEOPLE,” Trump wrote in a morning tweet. “Do not worry!” But others in the party acknowledged the political damage sustained by pulling the House bill, particularly for a president who had touted his own deal-making prowess. “It’s a momentum issue,” said Rep. Mike Coffman, R-Colo. “The fact is that, you know, you came out of the gate and you stumbled.” In San Antonio on Saturday at Doggett’s town hall meeting, Kate Mathis, 62, from Churchill Estates asked how she could help change the, as she sees it, the narrative that Obamacare is “imploding.” “I’ve been a happy beneficiary of the ACA for three year,” Mathis said. “I’m sick of hearing what the other side says when it’s not true.” Doggett said the best way to change the narrative is to tell personal stories and vote. “Everyone who says it’s a failure and it’s imploding, talk about how it helped someone you know — yourself or a family member or a neighbor and what a difference it made,” he said. Speaking to the Washington Post, Doug Heye, a GOP consultant and former congressional staffer, said Republicans, having achieved control of both chambers of Congress and the White House, were left with a lot to prove. “It sends a troubling sign to a lot of folks about the broader issue of whether Republicans will be able to govern,” he said. Trump has said he would have preferred to start his term by cutting taxes. Even before the health care bill was pulled Friday, the president already was starting to turn the page. Determined to highlight other priorities, Trump staged two announcements in the White House meant to underscore his commitment to creating jobs: granting a construction permit for the Keystone XL pipeline and appearing with executives of a telecom giant as they pledged to hire thousands of new employees, although the company’s plans had already been announced in October. Separately, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said at an event Friday that he will push Congress to enact comprehensive tax revisions by its August recess, though he acknowledged that the timetable might slip. The White House signaled Saturday that it was eager to move on. Trump’s weekly address made no mention of the health care fight, instead focusing on his signing of legislation authorizing funding for NASA and his commitment to space exploration. “We’re going to roll our sleeves up, and we’re going to cut taxes across the board for working families, small businesses and family farms,” Vice President Mike Pence said Saturday at an appearance in Scott Depot, West Virginia. A senior White House official, however, said it was unlikely that Trump would ramp up a major sales effort on retooling taxes immediately, given that his team had been planning on using the coming days to push for Senate action on the health care bill. Trump’s top advisers had envisioned a three-step legislative agenda this year, starting with scaling back President Barack Obama’s signature domestic initiative. After that was complete, they wanted to move to a comprehensive overhaul of the tax code, followed by the creation of a $1 trillion infrastructure package. The implosion of the health care effort complicates the tax overhaul both logistically and politically. House Republican leaders had been counting on changes to the tax code included in the health care bill to make the task of paying for future tax cuts easier. Americans for Tax Reform President Grover Norquist said the bloc of hard-line Republicans who helped stymie the health care overhaul were guilty of “ripping the lungs out of tax reform.” If they don’t revisit the health care bill immediately, Norquist said, they will soon realize that “they didn’t shoot and wound health care reform, they shot and killed permanent tax reform.” House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., acknowledged Friday that the health care defeat “does make tax reform more difficult, but it does not make it impossible.” “We are going to proceed with tax reform,” Ryan said. Hours before the health bill was pulled, Mnuchin said a “comprehensive” overhaul of the tax code should prove less complex. “Health care is a very, very complicated issue,” he said at a Friday event hosted by Axios. “In a way, (tax reform is) a lot simpler. It really is.” Trump has proposed cutting the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 15 percent, though many Republicans on Capitol Hill have been aiming for a 20 percent rate. Trump has also proposed consolidating the existing seven individual income-tax brackets into three brackets of 10 percent, 20 percent and 25 percent. Trump’s advisers have argued that these changes would trigger a big expansion of economic growth, but some budget analysts have said the changes would widen deficits by anywhere from $2.6 trillion to $7 trillion over 10 years. Many Republicans long have vowed that an overhaul of the tax code must be “revenue neutral,” which means they need to find new revenue to offset the reduction in rates. Trump’s advisers have not identified specific tax breaks they would eliminate to raise new revenue, and Trump himself often waved away debt concerns during the campaign. Meanwhile, House and Senate Republicans are at odds over the wisdom of a key component of tax restructuring. Ryan has proposed a border-adjustment tax that essentially would create new taxes on items imported into the United States as a way to raise close to $1 trillion in new revenue while also providing incentives for companies to move operations to the United States. Many other Republicans oppose this idea, though, and the fight probably only will intensify now. Some Republicans, including Sen. Lindsey Graham, S.C., argue that the scheme would drive up prices on consumer goods, and many large retailers are strongly opposed. Given such divides, as well as the mechanics of the budget process, it’s highly unlikely that lawmakers will produce a comprehensive tax bill by the August recess, if at all, said Jim Manley, a former longtime aide to former Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev. “It’s clearly not realistic, and it’s not going to happen, on policy and political grounds,” Manley said, adding that the Republican agenda is also undercut by “a president who’s out of his league and doesn’t know how to legislate.” Republicans had planned to use a budget procedure called “reconciliation” for both the health-care overhaul and for the tax changes, as that would allow them to pass their plans with a simple majority in the Senate and make it impossible for Democrats to filibuster. That’s still the plan with a tax overhaul. Barry Bennett, an adviser to Trump during the general election, said he thought it was a “tactical mistake” for the president not to have started his term by pushing for tax changes. “Now you’re going to have to carry these battle scars into the tax debate,” he said. Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, who was a close adviser to Trump during the campaign, said the White House should postpone what is expected to be a messy battle over the tax code and instead pivot toward trying to build a large infrastructure package. Proceeding with infrastructure could attract bipartisan support, he said. Some Democrats and labor unions have said they could support a big infrastructure package, though the White House has not specified how it plans to finance a package that includes roads, bridges, airports and broadband capability, among other things. Mnuchin said Friday that the package probably would include several hundred billion dollars in public money but that the rest would be financed by the private sector, with public support as incentives. Democrats are wary of that approach and prefer more direct government spending. Many Democrats and Republicans have tried — but failed — to pull off tax revisions in recent years. A principal reason changing the tax code is so difficult is because interest groups flood Washington looking for tax cuts but fight vigorously against any measure that would increase their bills. “It’s very, very hard to get done,” said Doug Holtz-Eakin, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office who served as economic adviser to Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., when he ran for president in 2008. “There are tons of different interests involved, and there are very different views within the Republican Party. Now you are going to enter into a second exercise of that type where you have clear evidence that holdouts can kill it. That empowers the holdouts.” Gingrich said the White House could learn some lessons from the failed House healthcare effort and change its approach going forward. “I hope (Trump is) going to decide that he has to have a much more hands-on approach to drafting these things and can’t just assume that it’s going to show up,” Gingrich said. Washington Post writers John Wagner, Damian Paletta and Sean Sullivans contributed to this report.
03.27.2017	WASHINGTON — On the 64th day of Donald Trump’s presidency, the art of the deal didn’t work. Facing a revolt by rank-and-file lawmakers from their party’s right and center, Republican leaders Friday were forced to cancel a vote on long-promised legislation repealing the Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare, leaving uncertain, at least for now, the GOP’s future plans for health care. The move spelled the first major tactical and political defeat for Trump, who had presented himself to the nation as a winner, spent weeks trying to woo recalcitrant Republicans and issued an ultimatum the night before: Take a vote, he said, regardless of the outcome, or he would move on, likely to push the Republican tax reform agenda. It was a tactic straight out of his 1987 best-seller, “The Art of the Deal,” one designed to put pressure on adversaries by showing a willingness to walk away. But this time, it was the lawmakers who walked. It also was a stinging setback for House Speaker Paul Ryan and House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady, a Republican from The Woodlands and one of the central architects of the Obamacare replacement legislation. Ryan, unshaven and showing the wear of a days-long drama, conceded defeat. “Obamacare is the law of the land, and it’s going to remain the law of the land until it’s replaced,” he said. Trump, for his part, suggested that Obamacare might be left to die a natural death, something Republican critics of the 2010 law have long predicted. “The best thing we can do politically speaking is let Obamacare explode,” Trump said. He also invited Democrats, somewhat whimsically, to join in a bipartisan effort to forge “a better health care plan.” Sounding uncharacteristically chastened, Trump also chalked up the defeat as a learning experience. “We learned a lot about loyalty,” he said. “We learned a lot about the vote-getting process.” Forced to postpone the bill for the second day running amid frantic negotiations to save it from defeat, Republican leaders faced a wave of internal recrimination over one of the most consequential GOP promises of the 2016 elections: Repeal and replace Obamacare. While canceling the vote was a humiliation for Republicans, it might have been even worse to force members to publicly support or oppose the bill. That could have exposed Republican moderates to far-right primary challenges, potentially risking GOP control of the chamber. The turn proved to be a stunning reversal from the heady days of Trump’s November election victory, when tea party activists looked forward to repealing Obamacare on “day one” of his presidency. The failure also feeds a perception that fractious Republicans can’t govern and suggests difficulties ahead for other goals, especially tax reform. Brady, in a final floor speech to rally support, warned his party of the stakes involved. “Today, we have a choice to make,” he said. “Will we answer the president’s call to action and pass this legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare? Or, will we allow the law to remain fully in place and deny our constituents the relief they urgently need?” Democrats, who remained uniformly opposed to rollbacks, said Republicans failed to take into account the political perils of a plan that would leave 24 million more Americans without insurance, even as hard-right lawmakers said it didn’t go far enough to repeal Obamacare. “They’ve spent eight years in contempt of President Obama and the Affordable Care Act,” said Houston Democrat Sheila Jackson Lee. “It really clouded their judgment about which way to go.” In the end, Ryan acknowledged that Republicans could not form a consensus around replacement legislation, caught between conservative critics pressing for total repeal and moderates who wanted to preserve but trim back some of the more popular provisions of Obamacare. Among the major sticking points were planned GOP cuts to Medicaid, the federal health program for the poor, disabled and elderly, and a passel of Obamacare insurance mandates that Republicans said were too costly. While Republicans unified against the central tenet of Obamacare — the “individual mandate” that everyone buy insurance — they split on what should replace it to ensure sufficiently large risk pools of healthy adults to make the insurance market work. The central architecture of the GOP bill, called the American Health Care Act, would have replaced the individual mandate with a 30 percent “continuous coverage” penalty, aided by age-based tax credits to buy insurance. Republicans said their plan would reduce the deficit and save $1 trillion dollars in taxes, which Democrats said would disproportionately go to the rich while cutting aid to the poor. Democrats also fought back against the GOP plan to defund Planned Parenthood, the women’s health network that provides abortions. But the real legislative fistfight was among Republicans themselves. “Moving from an opposition party to a governing party comes with growing pains,” Ryan said. “While we’re feeling those growing pains today, we came really close today but came up short.” Ryan, owning the retreat on the GOP bill, said he told Trump it was the best thing to do and that the president agreed. “I will not sugarcoat this,” Ryan said. “This is a disappointing day for us. Doing big things is hard.” With the outcome in severe doubt early in the day, Ryan found himself rushing to the White House to confer with the president, who kept up a full-court press of tweets and phone calls. Republicans knew full well the stakes for them. Pulling the bill from consideration might not have seemed as ignominious a defeat as losing the vote outright. But both scenarios spelled humiliation for a party that has been railing against the law since Obama signed it seven years ago Thursday. White House spokesman Sean Spicer said that since 2010, every Republican “from dogcatcher on up” has campaigned on repealing Obamacare, a main reason congressional Republicans and the White House chose to take it up first, before tax reform. He added that the budget savings from repealing the Affordable Care Act could have gone to tax reform. Depending on how many Democrats would be present, Republicans could afford only 21 or 22 defections. By Trump’s estimate, they were still about 10 or 15 short by the end of the day. Among the possible defectors were two Texans: Reps. Louie Gohmert of Tyler, a Freedom Caucus critic, and Randy Weber of Friendswood, who had tweeted the night before that the bill needed “more vetting.” Gohmert, one of the bill’s most outspoken conservative critics, said Republican leaders had oversold their legislation to win votes. “We have been lied to,” he said on Fox. “This bill keeps Obamacare in place in perpetuity.” But conservatives, who said the bill fell short of the promise of repealing Obamacare, weren’t the only ones standing in the way. A group of moderates, including New Jersey Republican Rodney Frelinghuysen, chairman of the powerful House Appropriations Committee, raised many of the same concerns as Democrats. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a San Antonio Democrat who helped write the Affordable Care Act, was scheduled to hold a town hall on health care at 1 p.m. today in San Antonio at La Trinidad United Methodist Church. Doggett warned after the fate of the legislation became known that Republicans may seek to further sabotage the Affordable Care Act. “This is a victory for the resistance, but the empire will strike back,” he said. “Republicans bet on blitzkrieg and lost.” Rep. Will Hurd, R-San Antonio, who had declined to take a public position on the bill, said after it collapsed that he’s “hopeful that we can go back to the drawing board and fix our broken health care system. We must get this right.” Rep. Joaquin Castro, D-San Antonio, said afterward that “members of Congress from across the country realized that this bill would hurt their constituents. Millions of people would have lost their coverage, including more than 660,000 Texans.” Now, Castro added, Congress should work in bipartisan fashion to fix problems with the Affordable Care Act. But with Republican majorities in both chambers of Congress, it is likely that party leaders have not heard the last calls for repeal. Said Trump: “I never said repeal and replace it in 64 days.”
03.25.2017	WASHINGTON — House Republican leaders, facing a revolt among conservatives and moderates in their ranks, pulled legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act from consideration on the House floor Friday in a major defeat for President Trump on the first legislative showdown of his presidency. “We’re going to be living with Obamacare for the foreseeable future,” the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, conceded. The failure of the Republicans’ three-month blitz to repeal President Barack Obama’s signature domestic achievement exposed deep divisions in the Republican Party that the election of a Republican president could not mask. It cast a long shadow over the ambitious agenda that Mr. Trump and Republican leaders had promised to enact once their party assumed power at both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue. And it was the biggest defeat of Mr. Trump’s young presidency, which has suffered many. His travel ban has been blocked by the courts. Allegations of questionable ties to the Russian government forced out his national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn. Tensions with key allies such as Germany, Britain and Australia are high, and Mr. Trump’s approval ratings are at historic lows. Republican leaders were willing to tolerate Mr. Trump’s foibles with the promise that he would sign into law their conservative agenda. The collective defeat of the health care effort could strain that tolerance. Mr. Trump, in a telephone interview moments after the bill was pulled, tried to put the most flattering light on it. “The best thing that could happen is exactly what happened — watch,” he said. “Obamacare unfortunately will explode,” Mr. Trump said later. “It’s going to have a very bad year.” At some point, he said, after another round of big premium increases, “Democrats will come to us and say, ‘Look, let’s get together and get a great health care bill or plan that’s really great for the people of our country.’” Mr. Trump expressed weariness with the effort, though its failure took a fraction of the time that Democrats devoted to enacting the Affordable Care Act in 2009 and 2010. “It’s enough already,” the president said. A major reason for the bill’s demise was the opposition of members of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, which wanted more aggressive steps to lower insurance costs and to dismantle federal regulation of insurance products. In a day of high drama, Mr. Ryan rushed to the White House shortly after noon on Friday to tell Mr. Trump he did not have the votes for a repeal bill that had been promised for seven years — since Mr. Obama signed the landmark health care law. During a 3 p.m. phone call, the two men decided to withdraw the bill rather than watch its defeat on the House floor. Mr. Trump later told journalists in the Oval Office that Republicans were 10 to 15 votes short of what they needed to pass the repeal bill. The effort to win passage had been relentless, and hardly hidden. Vice President Mike Pence and Tom Price, the health secretary, visited Capitol Hill on Friday for a late appeal to House conservatives, but their pleas fell on deaf ears. “You can’t pretend and say this is a win for us,” said Representative Mark Walker of North Carolina, the chairman of the conservative Republican Study Committee, who conceded it was a “good moment” for Democrats. “Probably that champagne that wasn’t popped back in November may be utilized this evening,” Mr. Walker said. At 3:30 p.m. on Friday, Mr. Ryan called Republicans into a closed-door meeting to deliver the news that the bill would be withdrawn, with no plans to try again. The meeting lasted five minutes. One of the architects of the House bill, Representative Greg Walden, Republican of Oregon and the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, put it bluntly: “This bill’s done.” “We are going to focus on other issues at this point,” he said. The Republican bill would have repealed tax penalties for people without health insurance, rolled back federal insurance standards, reduced subsidies for the purchase of private insurance and set new limits on spending for Medicaid, the federal-state program that covers more than 70 million low-income people. The bill would have repealed hundreds of billions of dollars in taxes imposed by the Affordable Care Act and would also have cut off federal funds to Planned Parenthood for one year. Mr. Ryan had said the bill included “huge conservative wins.” But it never won over conservatives who wanted a more thorough eradication of the Affordable Care Act. Nor did it have the backing of more moderate Republicans who were anxiously aware of the Congressional Budget Office’s assessment that the bill would leave 24 million more Americans without insurance in 2024, compared with the number who would be uninsured under the current law. The budget office also warned that in the short run, the Republicans’ legislation would drive insurance premiums higher. For older Americans approaching retirement, the cost of insurance could have risen sharply. With the House’s most hard-line conservatives holding fast against the bill, support for the legislation collapsed Friday after more and more Republicans came out in opposition. They included Representatives Rodney Frelinghuysen of New Jersey, the soft-spoken chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, and Barbara Comstock of Virginia, whose suburban Washington district went for the Democratic presidential nominee, Hillary Clinton, in November. “Seven years after enactment of Obamacare, I wanted to support legislation that made positive changes to rescue health care in America,” Mr. Frelinghuysen said. “Unfortunately, the legislation before the House today is currently unacceptable as it would place significant new costs and barriers to care on my constituents in New Jersey.” The bill died after Republican leaders, in a bid for conservative support, agreed to eliminate federal standards for the minimum benefits that must be provided by certain health insurance policies. “It’s so cartoonishly malicious that I can picture someone twirling their mustache as they drafted it in their secret Capitol lair last night,” said Representative Jim McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts. “Republicans are killing the requirements that insurance plans cover essential health benefits” such as emergency services, maternity care, mental health care, substance abuse treatment and prescription drugs. Mr. Trump blamed Democrats for the bill’s defeat, and they proudly accepted responsibility. “Let’s just, for a moment, breathe a sigh of relief for the American people that the Affordable Care Act was not repealed,” said Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader. Defeat of the bill could be a catalyst if it forces Republicans and Democrats to work together to improve the Affordable Care Act, which members of both parties say needs repair. Democrats have been saying for weeks that they want to work with Republicans on such changes, but first, they said, Republicans must abandon their drive to repeal the law. “Obamacare is the law of the land,” Mr. Ryan said. “It’s going to remain the law of the land until it’s replaced.” Whatever success Mr. Trump had in making business deals, he utterly failed in his first effort at cutting a deal at the pinnacle of power in Washington, Democrats said. “This is not the art of the deal,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas, alluding to Mr. Trump’s best-selling book. “It is the art of the steal, of taking away insurance coverage from families that really need it to provide tax breaks for those at the very top.” Rejection of the repeal bill may prompt Republicans to reconsider the political strategy they were planning to use for the next few years. “We have to do some soul-searching internally to determine whether or not we are even capable of functioning as a governing body,” said Representative Kevin Cramer, Republican of North Dakota. “If ‘no’ is your goal, it’s the easiest goal in the world to reach.” Representative Robert Pittenger, Republican of North Carolina, offered this advice to hard-line conservatives who helped sink the bill: “Follow the example of Ronald Reagan. He was a master; he built consensus. He would say, ‘I’ll take 80 percent and come back for the other 20 percent later.’” Failure of the House effort leaves the Affordable Care Act in place, with all the features Republicans detest. “We tried our hardest,” said Representative Michael C. Burgess of Texas, chairman of the Energy and Commerce subcommittee on health. “There were people who were not interested in solving the problem. They win today.” “The Freedom Caucus wins,” he added. “They get Obamacare forever.”
03.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, after House Republicans pulled down a vote on their “Pay More for Less” bill, Congressman Lloyd Doggett, Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, made the following statement: “This could not have been achieved without the determined involvement of concerned citizens across America. Republicans bet on blitzkrieg and lost. The people refused to be jammed with a ‘take it or leave it’ bill hidden under lock and key, followed by marathon dark-of-night, no-amendment sessions. Despite the backroom, closed-door deals, Americans learned its horrible details anyway. “The Trump Administration and their Republican cohorts in Congress will persist in doing everything possible to sabotage the Affordable Care Act. This is a victory for the resistance, but the empire will strike back. We must continue to resist every day in every nonviolent way. “As I said during the debate: ‘Trumpcare is big on Trump, but it’s weak on care. Many certificates of insurance will become as worthless, almost, as a diploma from Trump University. Mr. President, this isn’t the art of the deal; it is the art of the steal—of taking away insurance coverage from millions.’” ###
03.24.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Today, on the House floor, Congressman Lloyd (D-TX), the Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, spoke against Republicans’ “Pay More for Less” healthcare bill that has been rejected by physicians, nurses, hospitals, the AARP, the American Cancer Action Network, Consumers Union, and more. Rep. Doggett said: “Trumpcare is big on Trump, but it’s weak on care. Insurance plans will not only be ‘skinny;’ they will be a sham that denies coverage when accident or illness requires certain types of treatment. Many certificates of insurance will become as worthless, almost, as a diploma from Trump University. Mr. President, this isn’t the art of the deal; it is the art of the steal—of taking away insurance coverage from millions.” You can view Rep. Doggett’s full remarks here: https://youtu.be/_xfUJgDr1aU You can read his entire remarks below. Rep. Lloyd Doggett House Floor March 24, 2017 “Trumpcare is big on Trump, but weak on care. After falsely promising that there would be coverage for everyone for less and better, Trumpcare only ‘cares’ about huge tax breaks for the superrich and special interests, like the totally unjustified $28 billion windfall for the pharmaceutical industry that they grab right out of the Medicare Trust Fund so that premiums will go up. Those earning one million dollars with in a single year, get 79% of a $230 billion tax break, but there is no genuine relief for middle class taxpayers. “Removing “essential health benefits” provisions will only enable insurers to exclude the very key health care protections that folks thought they were getting when they paid their premiums. Insurance plans will not only be ‘skinny;’ they will be a sham -- a provision at the very time when you need care, won’t be there. Many certificates of insurance will be about as worthless almost as a diploma from Trump University. “This Republican bill targets our veterans by denying them tax credits. And for the millions of people who are just a few years too young to qualify for Medicare, their premiums will go through the roof, thousands of dollars more in order to get insurance. “Yes, Republicans have been divided and factionalized. They are divided between those who want Nothingcare and those who want LittleCare, but mostly they don’t seem to care how many millions of people will lose health insurance. Mr. President, this is not the art of the deal; it is the art of the steal of taking away insurance coverage from families that really need it to provide tax breaks for those at the very top. Those who understand healthcare, the professionals, say reject this bill, and it should be.” ###
03.23.2017	AUSTIN (NEXSTAR) — On Thursday, the U.S. House of Representatives is expected to cast a highly anticipated vote on the Republican plan to repeal and replace Obamacare. The new bill has drawn criticism from both parties and has some Republicans concerned that it won’t receive the 216 votes it needs to pass. “I hope our Texas congressional delegation in the U.S. House of Representatives will listen carefully to their constituents,” State Rep. Chris Turner, D-Arlington, said, “and think very carefully before they vote on this bill tomorrow in the U.S. Congress.” Turner called the new plan “dangerous” and says if it passes, as many as half a million Texans are at risk of losing health insurance. “It would drive up healthcare costs for everyone,” Turner said. “People would be paying higher deductibles, getting less care, and it will be a big tax break for the wealthiest Americans once again.” Turner says anyone between the ages of 50 and 64 are most at risk, but it’s going to cost everyone. “When uninsured folks go to the emergency room because they have no where else to go — guess what — we all pay for it,” Turner said. “And so that is going to cost every Texan and every American ultimately.” “I believe we can pass it,” Congressman Pete Sessions, R-Dallas, said Wednesday. “The American people want and need a better health care bill now and I’m going to help that.” Sessions and his colleague Congressman Jodey Arrington from West Texas said they plan to vote “yes” on Thursday. Arrington said he supports the bill because it provides medicaid funding to only those who need it, rather than the “8 million able-bodied Americans who were receiving medicaid funding under Obamacare”. Other Texans across the aisle like Democratic Congressman Lloyd Doggett from Austin said the bill will leave millions of people uninsured. “Lets reject this phony Republican giveaway,” Doggett said on the House floor this week. “All of those American families that are out there struggling trying to access life saving drugs, they don’t win a dime in this contest.” Doggett said he hopes the 10 other Texas Democrats in the House join him in voting “no”. “I hope they are listening to those constituents because it seems to me that constituents are going to remember that next year when all those folks are up for reelection,” Turner said. Thursday is the seventh anniversary of the signing the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) into law.
03.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, on the House floor, Congressman Lloyd (D-TX), the Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, spoke against Republicans’ efforts to jam through the so-called “Affordable Health Care Act”: “This bill is so bad it was kept under lock and key hidden from Democrats AND Republicans who would not pledge allegiance to it. It is so destructive that no witness would come to defend or explain it in all-night committee sessions. Jamming this bill through without fair consideration not only is a crumbling and destruction of healthcare, but also a crumbling of our democracy. Our Republican colleagues need to remember, this is Washington, not Moscow; this is the Congress, not the Duma.” You can view Rep. Doggett’s full floor speech here: https://youtu.be/Fd6uakVksFo ###
03.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – Following his recent efforts to restore full access to the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, is introducing the Equitable Student Aid Access Act, which would simplify the not-so-simple FAFSA. College Forward, a Texas-based nonprofit that coaches underserved students to collegiate success, recommended some elements of the legislation. Rep. Doggett said: “Too many students find the FAFSA too complicated to complete, so they lose access to available financial aid, causing many to abandon college education. Students who failed to complete the FAFSA could have received millions in federal assistance. My bill, like my prior successful FAFSA legislation, is designed to take the next step in removing unnecessary obstacles to ease access to student financial aid. All students who qualify for Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, or food assistance through SNAP, for example, would be able to complete a shorter form FAFSA to access the full Pell Grant amount. The bill also codifies that the FAFSA is available earlier, in October, and broadens access by restoring the eligibility cap for the full Pell Grant to all of those with the qualifying family income level that applied through 2011.” A key element of making FAFSA work now is the Data Retrieval Tool (DRT), which allows students to auto-populate required IRS tax information into their application. On March 3, the DRT was taken down with no warning less than two weeks before the FAFSA was due for aid in Texas. Rep. Doggett immediately urged the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and Department of Education (ED) to resolve the problem, after which the IRS and ED released a joint statement explaining the shutdown. Rep. Doggett has now personally met with IRS Commissioner John Koskinen to ensure the DRT is fully and securely restored: “Families depend on the DRT to obtain accurate tax information from prior years. Without it, students are more likely to err on their FAFSA, which could delay or deny aid. Commissioner Koskinen assured me that the DRT will be restored very soon. As I work on this new legislation, I will continue to actively monitor effective use of the existing system to ensure both data security and student accessibility.” Background: In addition to making statutory the DRT, the bill would also do the following: It codifies two decisions: to make the form available earlier (in October, instead of January), which gives filers more time to complete the form. Second, to permit filers to use tax data from the “prior, prior year” – that is, the year before the previous one—giving filers and their families increased confidence in filling out the form correctly and quickly, because they can use tax information that was accepted by the IRS in the previous year. Expand eligibility for the automatic full Pell Grant by including those whose families make less than $30,000, and allowing those who are enrolled in a federal means-tested benefit program, these include: Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) or Supplementary Security Income (SSI), to skip the complicated questions about additional financial assets that often causes students and families to stop seeking aid altogether. Filers would be assured that upon completion of the form and enrollment in school, they will receive the maximum Federal Pell Grant, just $5,815 for the 2016-2017 year. This Wall Street Journal article further describes the DRT’s outage, its impact, and Rep. Doggett’s efforts to restore it. ###
03.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Senior Member of the Ways and Means Committee and Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, spoke out against House Republicans’ efforts to take away healthcare from 24 million Americans ahead of Thursday’s vote to repeal the Affordable Care Act. “Thursday, these Republicans are awarding a new grand prize, a big-dollar award. Unfortunately, the contest has been rigged so that your name is not in the winner’s circle. Instead, the world leaders in prescription price gouging – they’re declared the winners of this grand prize in the Trump/House Republican Sweepstakes that they call repealing Obamacare. With Big Pharma’s exceptional distinguished service in charging astronomical prices and blocking competition to their government-approved monopolies, these Republicans have included a ‘no-strings-attached’ $25 billion tax windfall for Big Pharma in their so-called ‘Obamacare repeal.’ Now with their latest late night amendment—that prize is already growing bigger and bigger by the moment. And all of those American families out there struggling trying to access life-saving drugs, they don’t win a dime in this contest. Let’s reject this phony Republican giveaway where only Big Pharma is the big winner.” According to the original estimates from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) and Joint Committee on Taxation, the Republican Affordable Health Care Act (AHCA) would hand $600 billion in tax breaks to the rich and wealthy insurance and pharmaceutical companies and shorten the life of the Medicare Trust Fund by 3 years—figures that may be even higher now, after the Republicans changed the bill late last night. You can view Rep. Doggett’s floor remarks here: https://youtu.be/UAyWPij6t4g ###
03.16.2017	A key tool used by college students to apply for financial aid was pulled down by the Internal Revenue Service this month as a result of “criminal activity,” said U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, (D- Texas). The link appears on the U.S. Education Department’s Free Application for Federal Student Aid (Fafsa) and allows students to automatically download information from their or their parents tax returns. Mr. Doggett said he met with IRS commissioner John Koskinen on Thursday and the commissioner “assured me that IRS is working to get it back online for student use this month, and promised prompt updates on the timeline.” The Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration has opened a criminal investigation into the potentially fraudulent use of the tool, said a congressional aide. A spokeswoman for the inspector general couldn’t be reached late Thursday. The IRS and the Department of Education didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment. The IRS faced a cyberattack in 2015, with up to 330,000 taxpayer accounts hit by identity thieves and attempts made to break into another 280,000 accounts. Separately, in a letter dated Thursday, leaders of the Senate and House education committees requested more information from Education Secretary Betsy DeVos about the “cause and scope” of the data retrieval tool’s outage. Sens. Lamar Alexander (R, Tenn.) and Patty Murray (D, Wash.) and Reps. Virginia Foxx (R, N.C.) and Bobby Scott (D., Va.), the chairs and ranking members of the Senate and House committees that oversee education, in the letter asked for information on what the IRS and Education Department are doing to assist affected families. They requested a briefing from the Education Department on how it is trying to remedy the situation and protect student data privacy. The lawmakers expressed concern that the weekslong outage could discourage low-income students from applying for financial aid or participating in income-driven loan repayment plans, for which the IRS tool is also used. The congressional officials requested the briefing take place by March 24, and have requested copies of the IRS and Education Department’s policies and procedures regarding data privacy and security issues. Nearly 20 million people filed a Fafsa in 2015-16. In 2014-15, 5.2 million people used the link, called the data retrieval tool, to download their Internal Revenue Service tax data. Because of the shutdown both Indiana and Texas pushed back their deadlines for financial aid. The data retrieval tool, which has been in place for eight years, doesn’t mean students can’t file a Fafsa, just that they must enter their family’s financial information by hand. But, by entering information by hand, students are much more likely to be asked to verify that information with documents, which may dissuade some students from applying for aid and attending college, said Carrie Warick, director of policy and advocacy at the National College Access Network, which pushes for underrepresented students to apply for and enter college. At Purdue University the outage has already had that effect, said Ted Malone, the university’s director of financial aid. He said the school received about 1,000 applications in the past week. He said typically about 10% of applications are flagged for verification but this week it has doubled to 20%. Mr. Malone said he believes some of those students won't fill out the additional forms and that may cost them aid, which might mean they don’t attend Purdue or another school. “If they don’t receive an offer for aid, they might go somewhere else,” he said. Indiana has seen a significant drop in the number of individuals who filed on the original deadline day of March 10th: 19,550 this year vs. 26,963 last year, a state official said. In addition, overall numbers of applications are down slightly this year. One factor that might mitigate potential student stress is that the window for filing for financial aid opened on Oct. 1 last year, two months before its normal start date. That means some families could have finished their paperwork earlier and won’t need to enter data manually in the days before the state deadlines. “It is vital to ensure both data security and student accessibility,” Mr. Doggett said in his statement. “If the tool remains offline, more millions in student financial assistance could go unclaimed.”
03.14.2017	Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett, Senior Member of the House Ways and Means Committee and Ranking Member of the Tax Policy Subcommittee, reacted to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) report detailing the consequences of the GOP health care bill: “Tom Price personally recommended the CBO Director, Keith Hall. This rejection of his evaluation is typical of the Trump Administration’s misuse of statistics. Just like the selective embrace of jobs data, Trump accepts only numbers that reinforce his fantasies and discredits the many that do not. Sad—it’s the Trump GOP plan that is a loser, not CBO, and millions of Americans will be losers, if Republicans jam through this ‘Little care’ replacement for Obamacare. With another nonpartisan evaluation showing that this Republican proposal would destroy health insurance coverage for millions, it’s little wonder that Republicans kept their plan locked away from public view until just before rushing it through our committee in an all-night session that blocked all amendments. The failing grade for this wrongheaded plan is consistent with its rejection by health care professionals and a host of other public interest groups.” The CBO report indicates that 24 million Americans will lose their health coverage over 10 years, including 14 million in 2018 alone. It also indicates that Medicaid will be cut by $880 billion over 10 years and roughly 9 million fewer people would enroll in Medicaid in 2020. ###
03.12.2017	Race, not partisan advantage, was the key to changes made in the maps of three Texas congressional districts, including two in San Antonio. That was the conclusion of a federal judicial panel that invalidated the three Republican-drawn districts. In a 2-1 ruling, it said the 2011 changes diluted minority votes in violation of the U.S. Voting Rights Act. However, the order doesn’t explain how the invalidated maps should be corrected, though the plaintiffs have said in past hearings that the districts might have to be redrawn to how they were before 2011. Included were District 23, which is held by U.S. Rep. Will Hurd, R-San Antonio; District 35, which stretches from Austin to San Antonio and is held by Democrat U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin; and District 27, which includes Nueces County. The nearly 200-page ruling invalidates those districts, and could have a filter-down effect on nearby districts if the ruling stands in the 6-year-old case that was filed by minority voters and civil-rights groups, among others. “The Legislature adopted the court-drawn 2012 maps in 2013. The court was under a direct order from the Supreme Court to draw lawful districts. The adoption of those maps in 2013 mooted any issue with the 2011 maps. There are no lines to redraw,” Marc Rylander, Attorney General Ken Paxton’s director of communications, said in response to the ruling. For one of the plaintiffs in the suit, the ruling didn’t come as a surprise. “Tonight, the courts ruled what we knew all along — Texas intentionally discriminated against communities of color to dilute the voting power of Latinos and African Americans. All Texans deserve the right to elect their candidate of choice,” said Rafael Anchia, chairman of the Mexican American Legislative Caucus, one of the plaintiffs. “We demand swift action by the Texas Legislature to allow all communities to cast a ballot that counts.” In examining Hurd’s district, which stretches from western San Antonio to El Paso, the panel found the state Legislature drew the district lines to manipulate Latino voter turnout, and in the process “denied Latino voters equal opportunity and had the intent and effect of diluting Latino voter opportunity.” “There was both discriminatory motive and improper use of race to achieve the desired goal,” the ruling says in the portion looking at Hurd’s district. Hurd responded defiantly, noting the success he, an African-American, has experienced in a minority district. “I represent a 70 percent Hispanic district that produced record turnout in 2016, voted for Hillary Clinton and against my Democratic opponent. I passed nine pieces of legislation signed into law last Congress, more than any other member in the country,” he said in a statement. “The voters graded my paper and saw fit to vote me back in office. No matter the district lines, I will continue that hard work on behalf of all of my constituents,” he said. The ruling comes more than two years after a lengthy trial in August 2014. Writing for the majority were U.S. District Judge Orlando Garcia, a Democrat appointed to the bench by President Bill Clinton, and U.S. District Judge Xavier Rodriguez, a Republican appointed to the bench by President George W. Bush. Rodriguez also served on the Texas Supreme Court, where former Gov. Rick Perry appointed him to replace Greg Abbott. Judge Jerry Smith, a Republican appointed to the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals by President Ronald Reagan, filed a dissent that not only dissects the case, but also takes shots at the Justice Department, which intervened under the Obama administration and backed some of the plaintiffs'’arguments. Also, Smith’s dissent notes this may not be the end of the case because Texas could appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, which the state might try to convince to overturn the ruling, or to block it pending another court review. In looking at Doggett’s District 35, the majority found that district was improperly drawn with race as the predominant factor to minimize the number of Democrat districts and to try to unseat Doggett by boosting the Latino population, making it more likely that voters would choose a Hispanic candidate. The district reaches into downtown San Antonio, including a portion of South Bexar County, traveling north along a thin strip of Comal and Hays counties, a portion of Caldwell county and into Austin in Travis County. “The political motive does not excuse or negate that use of race; rather, the use of race is ultimately problematic for precisely that reason — because of their political motive, they intentionally drew a district based on race in a location where such use of race was not justified by a compelling state interest,” the ruling states. By drawing District 35 with a majority Latino population extending into San Antonio, the Legislature was able to “create the facade of complying with” the Voting Rights Act while eliminating an existing Democratic district, the panel found. Doggett, who won his 12th House term in November, congratulated the League of United Latin American Citizens for pursuing the case and said he intends to file for re-election no matter what the courts ultimately rule. “The court has repudiated the Republican refusal to treat Hispanics fairly in accordance with the Voting Rights Act. It requires the creation of genuine Hispanic-influence districts, not crooked lines that are only designed to increase Republican domination. Everyone loses when Republican gerrymandering makes elected officials less accessible and less accountable,” he said in a statement. “I will continue ‘living’ on (Interstate) 35, determined to serve effectively all of my constituents from South San Antonio to North Austin,” he added. LULAC was among groups that sued in 2011, the year the district boundaries were drawn. LULAC national executive director Brent Wilkes said the Texas Legislature should move swiftly to redraw the map to have it in place before the 2018 congressional elections. “I would think they would want to jump on it,” he said. “Obviously it matters how they go about it. The judges found that they had rushed and allowed racial discrimination. It’s legal to have partisan gerrymandering but not legal to keep minority voting strength down, and that’s unfortunately what they ended up doing here.” The panel also ruled the plaintiffs made their case that race was front and center in how the Legislature drew up District 27, which is held by U.S. Rep. Blake Farenthold, R-Corpus Christi. “Defendants’ decision to place Nueces County Hispanic voters in an Anglo district had the effect and was intended to dilute their opportunity to elect their candidate of choice,” the ruling states. The panel also found some problems in District 26, in the Dallas-Fort Worth area, but it wasn’t invalidated. The opinion said the plaintiffs had proven the Legislature intentionally diluted votes “through packing and cracking” in District 26. That district was redrawn in 2013, but the court panel was assessing the legality of the 2011 map, according to the voluminous court file. The judges also ruled the plaintiffs didn’t prove intentional vote dilution or a racially discriminatory purpose for districts in the Houston area represented by African-American members of Congress. Tom Perez, chair of the Democratic National Committee, responded to the ruling by saying the DNC needs a robust program to combat efforts to limit access to the ballot box. “Republicans have made it clear that they will continue their dirty business of silencing the most vulnerable, and with Jeff Sessions as the (U.S.) attorney general, Democrats will have to fight even harder to protect the American people,” Perez said in a statement. In his dissent, Smith recognized the more than two years the panel worked on the case, but said his two colleagues “missed the forest for the trees.” And, Smith took aim at Justice Department lawyers who argued the case in the Obama era. He said the department should not have been allowed to join the case. “I have no criticism of their knowledge of the law, and their zeal is, to say the least, more than adequate,” Smith wrote. “But they entered these proceedings with arrogance and condescension. “One of the department’s lawyers even exhibited her contempt for Texas and its representatives and her disdain for these proceedings by regularly rolling her eyes at state witnesses’ answers that she did not like, and she amused herself by chewing gum while court was in session. “It was obvious, from the start, that the (Justice Department) attorneys viewed state officials and the legislative majority and their staffs as a bunch of backwoods hayseed bigots who bemoan the abolition of the poll tax and pine for the days of literacy tests and lynchings. And the (Justice Department) lawyers saw themselves as an expeditionary landing party arriving here, just in time, to rescue the state from oppression, obviously presuming that plaintiffs’ counsel were not up to the task.”
03.09.2017	The Ways and Means Committee endorsed language rolling back Obamacare fees on health insurers and certain pharmaceutical manufacturers, moving a step closer to advancing the House GOP’s repeal bill. The panel voted along party lines, 24-16, in favor of repealing taxes on brand-name prescription drug makers and on health plans, with Republicans touting the move as another step toward lifting the financial burdens created by the 2010 health law. The provision is the third of five tax-related elements set to be considered during the committee’s marathon markup, which is running into the early hours of Thursday. The health insurance industry has long railed against the so-called HIT tax, blaming it for contributing to higher premiums. Ways and Means Democrats portrayed the repeal vote as a rejection of President Donald Trump’s pledge to bring down drug costs, warning that it would return $25 billion to an industry under heavy scrutiny for its pricing practices. “He has correctly described what he called ‘astronomical’ drug costs,” Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) said of Trump’s call to crack down on pharmaceutical companies. “The bill doesn’t do anything to bring the price way down. In fact, it’s going to have the opposite effect.” But Republicans including Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) brushed off the criticism, accusing Democrats of scapegoating the pharmaceutical industry for Obamacare’s failings. “I recognize it’s kind of easy to kick the pharmaceutical companies around,” Brady said. “But in the end, [Obamacare] ended up kicking seniors and small business people and patients in a very bad way.”
03.08.2017	Democrats on Wednesday used the House Ways and Means Committee's markup of legislation to repeal and replace ObamaCare to make another unsuccessful push for the panel to request President Trump's tax returns. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) offered an amendment for Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) requesting Trump's tax returns from the Treasury Department so that the panel could review them. But Brady ruled that the amendment was unrelated to the health legislation, and Republicans voted to table a Democratic appeal of Brady's ruling. The vote came as Democrats have vowed to force Republicans to take repeated votes on Trump's tax returns. Trump is the first president in decades to refuse to make his tax returns public. He has said he won't release his returns while he is under audit by the IRS, but the tax-collection agency has said an audit does not prevent people from releasing their own tax information. Last month, Doggett offered an amendment on Trump's tax returns to the Ways and Means Committee's oversight plan, but the amendment failed on a party-line vote. Democrats have also twice offered resolutions on the House floor to request Trump's tax returns, but they have been blocked on procedural votes. Doggett said Wednesday that his amendment is important because of recent revelations of Trump advisers having contact with Russian officials. He also cited reports that Trump would get a tax benefit from GOP's recently unveiled healthcare bill, known as the American Health Care Act. "Every new revelation about Russian contacts, including meetings with the Russian ambassador by Attorney General [Jeff] Sessions, heightens the need to see the returns," he said. But Brady said that requesting the tax returns would be an abuse of the committee's authority.
03.08.2017	House Republicans on Wednesday began debating a plan to repeal Obamacare amid Democratic accusations that the GOP is jamming through a bill to fulfill a campaign pledge that will rip health care away from millions of Americans. Just minutes after two House committees started debate, lawmakers began bickering about everything from the merits of striking the Affordable Care Act to how much time members should get to make opening statements to the president's tax returns and the cost of the health bill. Both Republicans and Democrats are girding for debate on the GOP's American Health Care Act to last hours, if not days. Leaders of the House Energy and Commerce Committee said the debate could go “through the weekend,” an ominous possibility Wednesday morning as Democrats required staff to read the text of the entire bill aloud. The measure aims to fulfill the Republicans’ long-standing commitment to undo Obamacare — shrinking and revamping the tax credits, gutting the individual mandate, rolling back the law's Medicaid expansion, and injecting more market-oriented features. Under the expedited budget process GOP leaders are utilizing, this repeal bill can’t undo all of Obamacare. The Trump administration is promising to dismantle other parts through executive actions and to add a second phase of legislation later. Even so, the bill is facing opposition from conservatives who call it “Obamacare Lite” and from GOP moderates who want to do more to protect coverage, particularly for low-income people. Democrats are united in opposing it — and the dynamic in the committees was partisan from the start. Republicans are pledging to stay aligned in order to get the bill through the House Energy and Commerce and Ways and Means committees in a day or two — even if questions remain about intraparty fights when it reaches the House floor. Democrats plan to bring forward dozens of amendments to put political pressure on Republicans, for instance by underscoring Obamacare’s protections for pre-existing conditions. “I’m disappointed in this process,” said Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-Calif.) as the Energy and Commerce session began. “It hasn’t been transparent. … It’s rushed. Members are squeezed in terms of their comments. This is a lousy process, in plain English.” Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) tried to derail the Ways and Means Committee’s markup of the repeal bill before it even started, calling on the committee to delay it until next week. He argued that the legislation hasn't been properly vetted by Congress or the public, ripping Republicans for keeping it “as secret as Donald Trump’s tax returns.” “What this bill needs is extreme vetting — frankly, any vetting at all would be an improvement," he said. Republicans are preparing for the fight. “This bill — as Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price wrote to us yesterday — ‘aligns with the President’s goal of rescuing Americans from the failures of the Affordable Care Act,’” Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) said. House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) has pledged that the GOP will have the votes to pass the bill when it comes to the House floor, likely in two or three weeks. “We’re going through the inevitable growing pains of being an opposition party to becoming a governing party,” Ryan told reporters Wednesday morning, referring to the transition from a Democratic White House to a Republican one. “And in being an opposition party, we had divided government.” Counselor to the president Kellyanne Conway guaranteed on Wednesday that the legislation will pass both houses of Congress and be signed into law. Asked on Fox News whether she was willing to match Ryan’s guarantee, Conway said she would readily do so. “The president is confident that the American Health Care Act will pass the House and the Senate and will become the law.” Huddle But President Donald Trump should be prepared to "walk away from the frigging table" if he feels jammed by Congress on health care, Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) told POLITICO in an interview on Wednesday. While Vice President Mike Pence and even Trump himself have said the White House fully backs a bill written by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Ryan and committee leaders, Graham said Trump should be prepared to abandon the effort if he doesn't believe it's the right solution. “Here’s what I’d do if I were President Trump. Say: 'I’ve got a view of health care, tell me your views, I’m going to try to work to get to yes with as many people as I can, realizing almost no Democrats are going to help,'" Graham said. "But just say this: 'I’m not making a deal for a deal’s sake.'" Graham and other GOP senators including Tom Cotton of Arkansas have said the House is moving too quickly in an effort to pass the bill. McConnell is prepared to jam it through the Senate over the next month if it clears the House, to avoid allowing opposition to build among the left and right over an April recess. Meanwhile, a third House panel on Wednesday advanced along party lines three health care bills separate from the GOP’s Obamacare repeal effort, but the health care law was front and center during the debate at the House Education and the Workforce Committee. “It’s impossible to have a serious health care discussion in this committee while two other committees are simultaneously repealing the ACA,” said Rep. Bobby Scott of Virginia, the committee's top Democrat. “We are considering three bills that in no way build on the progress of the ACA or are any part of any comprehensive replacement.” Paul Demko, Adam Cancryn, Burgess Everett and Brianna Ehley contributed to this report.
03.08.2017	Democrats on Wednesday broadly blasted a proposed Obamacare replacement bill after learning the federal government would lose about $400 million in lost tax revenue over the next decade due to a sweet break for health insurers. Rep. Sander Levin, D-Mich., said that the tax break related to executive pay underscores the fact that the Republican replacement bill is "the beginning of a huge giveaway to the very, very wealthy," and the end of insurance coverage for millions of lower-income people. "We're starting off ... with essentially a giveaway to insurance executives," Levin said. The proposed tax break, buried in cryptic language in the Republican plan, would allow health insurers to more fully deduct the value of their executives' compensation on their taxes. That compensation can be as high as tens of millions of dollars, in the case of CEOs of insurers. Those deductions currently are sharply limited by the Affordable Care Act, which caps at a maximum of $500,000 the amount of an individual executive's compensation that an insurer could deduct as a business expense. The cap applies to any executive, not just to CEOs. Thomas Barthold, chief of staff for the Joint Committee on Taxation, revealed the $400 million lost tax revenue estimate during the first day of review of the Obamacare replacement bill by the House Ways and Means Committee. Barthold said that would be the total amount lost through 2026 if the bill became law this year. If the bill is passed, Barthold said health insurers would be able to deduct up to $1 million of an individual executive's salary on their taxes, just like other types of U.S. companies. But Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas, noted that the $1 million deduction cap only is on salary. Executive compensation that includes "performance pay" can, and routinely does, significantly exceed the amount of the salary for a CEO of a health insurer. Doggett pointed out that the pay of Aetna's CEO is more than $17 million, and Cigna's chief executive tops $13 million. Most, if not all of their pay, could be written off as business expenses if the Republican bill becomes law. "It could be $100 million, and it would still be possible" to deduct the full CEO compensation?Doggett asked. Barthold answered, "It would be possible." Committee member Rep. Brian Higgins, R-N.Y., said, "I don't think this provision is unjustifiable, and I think it's morally reprehensible." The CEO of UnitedHealth, Higgins pointed out, alone made $66 million last year. "We're sitting here talking about giving big insurance companies a tax break on the exorbitant compensation to pay their executives?" Higgins said. "We should repeal this provision and replace it with an admonishment to the insurance companies to get your salaries in line with reality." That provision, however, represents just a small fraction of the approximately $600 billion in revenue it is estimated the government would lose if the GOP Obamacare replacement plan was implemented. Much of those costs would come from the repeal of ACA-related taxes, which disproportionately affect wealthier Americans. "So, essentially, what we have here to kick off ... is a beginning of a huge giveaway to the very, very wealthy, a huge giveaway, and the silence from the other side I would think indicates deep embarrassment, if possible," Levin said, referring to Republicans on the committee. "Six hundred billion, with the vast majority going to wealthy families. That describes so vividly the mistake with this bill, and will emphasize those who are going to lose their benefits and their insurance coverage, millions and millions, while billions are going to the very few," Levin said. "That's really what this all about."
03.07.2017	U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett said a GOP plan to repeal Obamacare will be reviewed by the Ways and Means and Energy and Commerce committees in the U.S. House on Wednesday. The GOP bill that would potentially repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act will be taken up by two U.S. House committees on Wednesday, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett said Monday. “On Wednesday morning, I believe that both the House Ways and Means Committee on which I serve and the House Energy and Commerce Committee will begin consideration, with eventual approval, of a bill to replace the Affordable Care Act,” Doggett told the Tribune during a visit to the Texas Capitol. Republicans released new legislation Monday evening that effectively repeals Obamacare and introduces a health care payment system based on monthly tax credits. The credit amounts depend on a person’s age, with individuals over the age of 60 receiving $4,000 a year, the maximum amount. Under the new bill, federal funds will used to expand Medicaid will be suspended by 2020 and people will no longer have to be on an insurance plan. The controversial bill, a campaign promise of President Donald Trump, has been kept under wraps by Republican members of Congress. It would undo President Barack Obama's signature health law, dubbed Obamacare, and would potentially offer a replacement plan. A draft leaked by Politico last week caused an uproar in Washington from both Republicans and Democrats. Doggett said that by keeping the bill hidden, Republicans are making it hard for Democrats to draft amendments. He said House Democrats will have about 24 hours to review the bill, which he said is not enough time for them to get “objective, outside groups” to analyze the bill and suggest amendments. The bill, Doggett said, may see backlash from House members on both sides of the aisle. Republican representatives such as Sen. Rand Paul, R-Kentucky, who was blocked from seeing the bill, and Rep. Roger Williams, R-Austin, who supports the repeal of the Affordable Care Act but wants no replacement, may object to the GOP’s new bill, Doggett said. Democratic members of the House Ways and Means committee have requested that a White House official explain how the bill satisfies President Donald Trump’s health care proposals. They also asked for a health care expert to assess the bill’s impact and cost. Doggett said Republicans "have declined to do any of those things." “There is no doubt there are many flaws within the Affordable Care Act that need to be corrected, but we're not being really given that opportunity,” Doggett said. Leading Texas Republicans have repeatedly called for a repeal of the Affordable Care Act since its enactment, including Sen. Ted Cruz and Gov. Greg Abbott. About 1.2 million Texans have received insurance under the program, and Texas representatives have received backlash from constituents who worry their insurance may disappear if Obamacare is repealed. Most recently, U.S. Rep. Michael Burgess, R-Lewisville, was booed by hundreds of angry constituents during a town hall event in his district. Earlier Monday, Doggett spoke at a Texas Capitol rally sponsored by Cover Texas Now, a coalition of health care organizations. Participants rallied against congressional proposals that could affect health care coverage, including the repeal of Obamacare and the Texas Senate's proposed budget, which would underfund Medicaid by $1.9 billion. Read more In a rare congressional town hall in North Texas, U.S. Rep. Michael Burgess, R-Lewisville, withstood two hours of booing from hundreds of angry constituents at a local high school. Few of his colleagues have hosted such forums lately. Trump’s victory gives Republicans the opportunity to dismantle Obama’s signature health law — and is causing deep-seated uncertainty for the health care market and millions of Texans with government-subsidized coverage.
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, House Ways and Means Committee Democrats urged Chairman Kevin Brady to refrain from holding a full committee markup of any legislation to replace the Affordable Care Act without conducting a single hearing or obtaining a score from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office and any estimates from the Joint Committee on Taxation. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Tax Policy Subcommittee, issued the following statement: “Any attempt to force a vote on a bill that strips healthcare from millions of Americans without transparent discussion or even a cost estimate represents a total miscarriage of justice. It is an insult to the American people,” said Congressman Doggett. “They deserve to know exactly how they would be impacted by this bill, which will likely radically alter their ability to secure adequate health insurance coverage. Do not jam this bill down Americans’ throats. Robust and transparent deliberation is crucial, especially when the lives and wellbeing of so many American families are at stake – without it, democracy will crumble.” Congressman Doggett will speak further regarding this matter at a press conference with other Ways and Means Committee Democrats today at 1pm EST. You may view the full letter below. The Honorable Kevin Brady, Chairman House Committee on Ways and Means 1102 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Re: Transparency and Openness in Health Care Discussions Dear Chairman Brady, As rumors continue to proliferate surrounding the Republican plans to repeal the Affordable Care Act and radically change the way health coverage is provided to American families, we write to express our strong opposition to any decision to hold a full committee markup without first holding hearings. With any legislation, this type of hasty, partisan action would be cause for alarm. With legislation that would drastically alter health coverage for Americans, robust and transparent discussions are even more critical, as the lives and wellbeing of millions of Americans families hang in the balance. Families throughout the United States are anxious about whether their care will be protected if Republicans repeal the Affordable Care Act. They are calling our offices, attending town halls, and asking us whether it is true that the new Republican plan will cause them to lose their coverage, pay higher premiums, or be hit with new taxes on their employer-provided plans. The public deserves transparent and deliberative hearings where their elected representatives can question experts and Administration officials on how American families will be impacted by this bill. In an interview with the Washington Post on January 15, 2017, President Trump said, “We’re going to have insurance for everybody.” In an interview on ABC on January 25, 2017, he said, “We are going to have a better plan, much better health care, much better service treatment, a plan where you can have access to the doctor you want and the plan that you want. We’re going to have a much better health care plan at much less money.” We are willing to support a health care plan that delivers more quality coverage at a lower cost to the American people. But before any markup of legislation that would dismantle the Affordable Care Act, we request hearings in this Committee that include a witness from the Trump Administration who can answer Members’ questions regarding how the Republican plan upholds the president’s promise of “a much better health care plan at much less money.” We also wish to express our alarm over any markup of new provisions and titles that have not been appropriately explored with subject matter experts. For example, a draft bill that was leaked to the media on February 24, included a tax on employer-based health coverage. This would be the first time that working Americans would be subject to this new type of tax. There is significant confusion and debate over how this would impact the budgets of working families and the middle class. We ask that the Committee ensure that experts and staff are available to discuss this and other issues in open, transparent hearings, before any markup is held on legislative text. This should include representatives from the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) and Congressional Budget Office (CBO), who can thoroughly explain any associated costs—a vital consideration in evaluating the legislation. We also express our strong opposition to any attempt to mark up this bill before receiving a score from the CBO and estimates from the JCT. We know firsthand the importance of engaging with the public and with colleagues across the aisle when legislating health policy. Prior to the approval of the Affordable Care Act, we held more than 100 hours of hearings and considered testimony from 181 bipartisan witnesses. Three House committees of jurisdiction held hearings on the public draft in June 2009, and the three considered a total of 239 bipartisan amendments after the legislation was officially introduced in July. Members had nearly five months to examine the legislative text between when the first draft was made public and its passage in November 2009. And this transparency was not limited to action inside the Beltway—Democratic Members held more than 3,000 health care town halls and public events during the course of deliberation on the Affordable Care Act to discuss its effect on local communities. At that time, one of the major public demands was that Members “read the bill.” As members of one of the committees with primary jurisdiction, we did and continue to take that responsibility seriously, and expect to be able to read and review bills that come before us. We are concerned that an extensive bill may be presented for Committee consideration with as little as 24 hours’ notice. That, of course, would be a highly insufficient time for Members to read thoroughly and to research the potential impact of a new law. The Ways and Means Committee bears a heavy responsibility to the American people, who deserve similar transparency as you attempt to dismantle the Affordable Care Act. We respectfully urge you to schedule hearings this month on any legislation that would repeal or radically alter the coverage and benefits provided through the Affordable Care Act, and thereafter to permit at least a week for us to read and review legislative text. We look forward to your prompt reply. Sincerely, House Ways and Means Committee Democrats ###
03.01.2017	Reaction to President Donald Trump’s address to a joint session of Congress split along predictably partisan lines, with Republicans praising what they described as the president’s optimistic agenda, and Democrats saying “talk is cheap.” “I think there’s a lot of anticipation, a growing confidence, not only in our economy, but that America is now back in a leadership role and that the whole world will end up benefiting,” said U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate, who said he thought Trump had offered a promising vision of deregulation, tax reform, creating jobs, reducing the bureaucracy and securing U.S. national security. “I’m eager to learn about how Congress can continue to partner with our new president to make his administration a success so that America can remain a success and to make the rest of his campaign promises a reality,” Cornyn said. But U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, the lone Democratic member representing Central Texas, was unimpressed with what he considered Trump’s negative vision for America. “Big on talk, short on details,” Doggett said. “He promotes an agenda for weakness, not strength.” “Blaming immigrants, weakening support for public schools, reducing resources for student financial assistance and workforce development, building a wall, repealing health care – this is a plan to deny individual opportunity and to reduce American competitiveness,” Doggett said. “At my upcoming town halls I will offer a competing vision of what really makes America great.” Likewise, Texas Democratic Party Chairman Gilberto Hinojosa said that he found the president’s rhetoric empty. “Promises have been broken, talk is cheap, and the assault on American values has begun. That is why millions of patriots are courageously fighting back,” Hinojosa said. “Once again, minority President Donald Trump has done nothing to substantively improve the everyday lives of the majority of hardworking Americans. Instead, he is stacking the deck against them. He has already begun to rip working people off, launch lies and cover ups, and tear families apart.” At the other end of the spectrum, U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio, was exuberant. “The president’s address tonight was a home run. How could anyone disagree with putting Americans first?” Smith said. “President Trump has taken swift action to address many of the bad policies instituted by the Obama administration. We need policies that promote economic growth and create jobs,” Smith said. “We must have health care reforms that expand choice, improve access and lower costs. We must secure the border to stop the flow of drugs and protect American jobs and lives. We must reaffirm our commitment to our servicemen and servicewomen — past and present – by providing them with the best resources possible.” “Our work is just beginning as we continue on the path to increased economic growth and prosperity,” said Smith, whose district runs through South Austin, downtown, Old West Austin and north to West Campus. U.S. Rep. John Carter, R-Round Rock, offered a similar assessment. “President Trump tonight delivered a very positive address outlining his vision for our great nation, one that includes bringing America together as we work to increase security across our communities, reduce regulations to create job growth, and renew investment in our middle class,” Carter said. “I’m glad the president shares my commitment to rebuilding our military,” Carter said. “After eight years of gutting our armed forces, we must commit the resources needed to ensure our men and women in uniform have the tools necessary to succeed, and that we have the military strength to protect our great nation.” On Obamacare, Carter said: “The House is hard at work putting together legislation that will allow more choices, increase access to cutting-edge health care, and lower costs. We want to create a system that puts patients, not the government, first.” U.S. Rep. Bill Flores, R-Bryan, also praised Trump for what he characterized as “a bold and optimistic vision for the future of our nation. I believe a stronger and brighter future for hardworking Americans families relies on strong economic growth and opportunity.” “To accomplish this goal, Congress has been and will continue working with the president to restore liberty, opportunity and security,” said Flores, who represents parts of North Austin, Manor and Pflugerville. “This starts by providing relief from the burdensome regulations left behind by the previous administration. It continues by putting an end to Obamacare’s skyrocketing premiums and shrinking pool of choices for consumers.” U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Austin and chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, tweeted his support for the president naming “radical Islamic terrorism” in his speech, and also for his expression of support for law enforcement. “I am pleased to hear @realDonaldTrump say `we are taking strong measures to protect our nation from radical Islamic terrorism,” McCaul tweeted. And, “I agree with @realDonaldTrump that we must work with — not against — the men and women of law enforcement.” U.S. Rep. Roger Williams, R-Austin, tweeted that he supported Trump’s “plan to finally end the negative impact sequestration has had on the brave men & women who sacrifice to defend our nation.” “I’ve called for taking our military out of the budget sequester because it prevents them from carrying out their mission,” Williams tweeted.
02.28.2017	The Trump Organization is looking to expand its luxury hotel brand into dozens of the nation’s major cities because that’s where the tourists and business travelers are. But they’re also where the strongest opposition to Trump is. From liberal havens like San Francisco to red-state hubs like St. Louis and Dallas, local officials have been putting the president’s namesake company on notice that it may not be welcome. “I think that guy is an invalid human and I wish nothing but failure for him,” said Philip Kingston, a Dallas city councilman who is against plans to build a 200-room Trump-branded hotel just blocks from City Hall. “I know that sounds kind of harsh, but I think he’s earned it. I’d hate to see him make any money in my town.” That kind of sentiment isn’t unique to the U.S. In Vancouver, where the Trump Organization on Tuesday opens its first new hotel since the election, the mayor has led protests against the project. The president’s sons Donald Jr. and Eric, who control the family business while their father is in the White House, are expected to attend the ribbon-cutting in the Canadian city. Activists are still pushing to get the Trump name removed from the building, which was planned before Trump announced his presidential candidacy. “There’s a strong visceral reaction to the name being attached to our skyline,” Brent Toderian, Vancouver’s former chief planner and an opponent of the hotel, told POLITICO. With Trump now in office, his company is shifting its focus to U.S. development because of ethics restrictions the president and his legal team imposed on his company precluding new international deals. "We see significant growth opportunity in the United States for both our hotel brands,” a spokesperson for the Trump Hotels said in an email to POLITICO, declining an interview request with company executives and responses to several follow-up questions about its expansion plans. The head of the Trump Organization’s hotel arm, Eric Danziger, recently told the industry trade publication Skift that the company plans to expand beyond the company’s current locations in Chicago, Hawaii, Las Vegas, South Florida, New York and Washington. “Why wouldn’t a great five-star brand like Trump be in every market that has a five-star market opportunity? Why wouldn’t it be?” he said in the interview with Skift. The Trump Organization has also already signed 17 letters of intent with potential developers to launch a separate new line of four-star boutique hotels, known as Scion, Danziger told the Wall Street Journal. He told the trade publication Hotel News Now that he expects to have as many as 100 Scion hotels open within the next three years, including in Austin, Charlotte, Dallas, Denver and Nashville. Austin, an infamously blue city in deep-red Texas, might be a particularly tough sell. Texas Democratic Rep. Lloyd Doggett said in an interview he’s against a potential 33-story luxury Trump hotel and condominium project that local and national media reports have suggested will rely on foreign investors from China. The potential location is on the current site of a brick oven pizza joint, just a few blocks from both his home and the state capitol complex. “It’s difficult to imagine anything more inappropriate and unpopular than putting Trump’s name on something in Austin,” Doggett said. “It was a great place to have pizza. If they chose this, it’d be a very popular new place to have protests.” Opposition to a potential Trump project also quickly surfaced in St. Louis at the site of a vacant downtown building. Hundreds of anti-Trump protestors swarmed the area in November after a local media report noted a developer’s long-standing interest in bringing a Trump hotel to the site. Marriott ultimately signed on for the project, but the controversy flared until the city’s longtime Democratic Mayor Francis Slay wrote on Twitter that the president-elect’s company wasn’t coming to their neighborhood: “No Trump Hotel. Development team has confirmed that the shuttered Jefferson Arms will NOT be a Trump Hotel. #fgs” In San Francisco, local officials scoffed at the news the unpopular president’s company could win their approval. “What a joke!” Mark Farrell, the city’s supervisor, told a local television station, KPIX. “Maybe we can set him up with a nice room in Alcatraz,” added London Breed, president of the city’s board of supervisors. Hotel industry experts say they don’t expect Trump Organization to start identifying locations for Scion or new luxury Trump projects until financing is approved and the deals are official. “It doesn’t make sense to spread the word about potential deals if this is the reaction you’re getting,” said a longtime industry observer. Yet even Trump’s fiercest political critics said they wouldn’t consider using their authority to block his hotels, however much they oppose the president. “That’s not the way the rule of law works,” said Kingston, the Dallas councilman, who’s eyeing a 2019 mayoral run. “If that guy has money and he can get through the permitting process, then we treat all people equal regardless of how we feel about their politics. I’ll just be disappointed.”
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump’s proposal for a “historic” $54 billion increase in defense spending in his pending budget — while cutting heavily from foreign aid and agencies across the federal government — has initiated what promises to be fierce debate in Congress over slashing programs in favor of a large military buildup. A budget blueprint sent to federal departments Monday aims to increase defense spending to $603 billion while cutting nondefense, so-called discretionary spending to $462 billion, said Mick Mulvaney, director of the Office of Management and Budget. Trump, who will address a joint session of Congress tonight, offered governors visiting the White House on Monday a rationale for his spending plans that was accompanied by few details. “This budget will be a public safety and national security budget,” the president said, “and will include a historic increase in defense spending to rebuild the depleted military of the United States of America.” Trump said the increase would be paid for by finding efficiencies and savings across federal agencies. The budget, if approved by Congress, would reduce funding to agencies by roughly 10 percent and in some cases, such as the Environmental Protection Agency, even more. The biggest portion of federal spending, nearly $1.5 trillion for Social Security and Medicare, is out of the president’s reach. The buildup could have major implications at Joint Base San Antonio, which is spread across three major installations at Fort Sam Houston and at Lackland and Randolph air bases. The San Antonio Military Medical Center at Fort Sam is the military’s largest and houses the leading burn treatment center in the armed forces. Altogether, JBSA employs about 78,000 people, with indirect employment estimated at more than 200,000. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-San Antonio, argued that Trump “is forcing a false choice between military and economic security” by proposing deep cuts in federal agencies to pay for a military buildup. Doggett said some of the new military spending might be well justified if directed to service members rather than weapons systems or nuclear armaments. But slashing spending at the State Department, he observed, could be unwise, given the need for the U.S. to project power in nonmilitary ways. Likewise, cuts in domestic spending that strike at protections for Americans and economic competitiveness can diminish the security that Trump speaks of, Doggett said. “Our failure to make proper investments for health and education are reducing the number of young people ready to serve in the military,” he said. U.S. Rep. Joaquin Castro, D-San Antonio, said the administration’s budget guidance shortchanges American workers and cuts agencies already operating under pared-down budgets. “This drastic reduction will likely slash programs that invest in Americans’ jobs, education and health. Wherever the cuts are made, Texas families will suffer,” Castro said in a statement. John O’Grady, president of the union that represents many EPA employees, said the agency’s staff — now about 15,000 — already has been reduced by more than 3,000 since its high point in 1999. “If we shrink 10 percent, that will impact the agency’s ability to protect human health and the environment,” he said, adding his expectation that the EPA cuts could turn out be about 15 percent. Nonetheless, Trump can expect to find favor in a GOP-run Congress keen on reducing government’s size. And defense hawks are pressing for even more military spending. Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and House Armed Services Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry, R-Clarendon, each have proposed a $640 billion budget plan. McCain said in a statement that Trump’s plan would mark an increase of just $18.5 billion over what President Barack Obama wanted for new fiscal spending in a two-year plan he proposed last year. Thomas Spoehr, who directs defense policy at the conservative Heritage Foundation, said Trump can expect criticism from many directions on Capitol Hill. “Democrats are saying no, no, no, you can’t spend this month on defense. Defense hawks like McCain and Thornberry are saying you have to spend more. And deficit hawks want to bring back budget caps,” said Spoehr, a retired Army general. Spoehr, among those who advocates spending at a higher level than Trump’s proposal, said a first order of business should be paying for an additional 24,000 service members authorized by Congress last year. He said he believes that both the Army and the Air Force need to grow, pointing to Air Force Chief of Staff David Goldfein’s recommendation in December that his service increase to 350,000 from about 317,000 now. Loren Thompson, CEO of the Lexington Institute, a Washington-area nonprofit that deals with security matters, pointed to the Air Force’s recent problems maintaining aircraft. Today’s Air Force is the oldest it has ever been, he said. “After six years of the defense being capped by law, there are many facets of training and equipment maintenance that have fallen way behind where they should be,” he said. Nonetheless, Thompson added, “the president will need to do a lot of bargaining to get what he wants.” On Jan. 31, Defense Secretary James Mattis distributed a memo to defense agencies spelling out a three-phase spending plan that starts with improving readiness. Mattis said the Pentagon would prepare a supplemental budget request for this fiscal year to “address urgent war-fighting readiness shortfalls across the joint force and new requirements driven by acceleration of the campaign against ISIS,” or the Islamic State. Beyond initial needs, Mattis wrote that the Defense Department would seek “balance” by addressing shortfalls and build a larger and more capable military. “The ultimate objective is to build a larger, more capable and more lethal joint force driven by a new national defense strategy,” the memo read.
02.23.2017	By: Tony Plohetski, Nancy Flores, and Perla Arellano, Feb. 22, 2017 The information, compiled by the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency and presented late last week to several U.S. congressional officials, provides the most comprehensive data available about the national operation that sparked a furor in Austin, where 51 people were arrested. It also intensified questions Wednesday about whom federal agents targeted as part of Operation Cross Check, which ICE officials have said was aimed at the most dangerous, violent criminals. The newly obtained records indicate a somewhat different outcome than federal officials had publicly announced, prompting condemnation from some officials and immigration advocates. “Statistics, mere numbers don’t convey the depth of the sad story of lives interrupted,” said U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin. “An indiscriminate deportation policy that does not target those that pose a real threat makes our communities less safe, divides families, and will hurt our economy.” Austin City Council Member Greg Casar, who represents North Austin’s District 4, said the ICE operation in Austin tore hard-working families apart. “ICE officials attempt to justify themselves by holding up the criminal records of a few people,” he said. Documents show that of the 51 people arrested by federal immigration agents, 23 were previously identified by ICE as having criminal convictions. Yet 28 of them were deemed “noncriminals” by the immigration agency — meaning they didn’t have previous criminal convictions but were suspected of being in the country illegally. The number of noncriminal people arrested during the operation number stands in sharp contrast to other regions where the operation took place. According to the data, in the Austin region — which includes the cities of San Antonio, Del Rio, Laredo and Waco — 55 percent of those arrested were “noncriminal,” compared with 34 percent in Atlanta, 30 percent in Chicago, 6 percent in Los Angeles and 5 percent in New York. It was unclear why the Austin area had more noncriminal arrests, but federal officials said they suspect it could be the result of “collateral apprehensions” — the arrest of a person because they might have been with a wanted individual at the time. “During targeted enforcement operations, ICE officers frequently encounter additional suspects who may be in the United States in violation of federal immigration laws,” ICE said in a recent statement. “Those persons will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis, and when appropriate, arrested by ICE.” ICE officials have declined to identify the 51 people detained as part of the operation during a four-day period during the second week of February, making it difficult to know why the immigrants were arrested and their previous criminal histories, if any. A large number of the 51 people are thought to be from Austin, federal officials said. The Statesman has been attempting to learn their names through other means, including family members and limited federal court records. The operation in Austin came to light after U.S. Rep. Joaquin Castro, D-San Antonio, who recently condemned new Homeland Security Department directives revealed Tuesday that expand immigration enforcement across the country, confirmed on Feb. 10 rumors that immigration officials were carrying out targeted arrests in the Austin-San Antonio area. Soon after the operation became public, ICE officials highlighted the arrests of a citizen of El Salvador who had pleaded guilty to the sexual assault of a child and of a Mexican citizen convicted of repeat domestic violence offenses. According to the data, of the 23 people with criminal convictions, nine were convicted of drunken driving, two for assault and two for sexual offenses involving children. But the data include several individuals who had been convicted of marijuana possession, obstructing the police and drug trafficking. The operation struck fear in Austin, prompting protests and vocal responses by some City Council members. Mayor Steve Adler sent an open letter to citizens of Austin, saying the city is a welcome, inclusive community. “One consequence of this is the fear and panic among many of our neighbors who do not pose threats to our community,” Adler wrote. “Some family members are disappearing with their whereabouts unknown. Some parents, fearful of apprehension, aren’t sure of what will happen to their U.S.-born citizen children, not to mention the home they’ve owned for years and into which they’ve placed all their family savings.” He added that Austin police haven’t had any role in the operation. “The numbers of how many have been detained show that immigration (ICE) is lying, that the administration is lying in regard to the people who are being deported,” said Alejandro Caceres, an immigration organizer with the group Grassroots Leadership. “For us it doesn’t matter who was deported, for us all deportations and detentions were unjust.”
02.22.2017	Austin American-Statesman “The American people should thank Secretary Kelly for issuing two enforcement memorandums today that overturn the dangerous immigration policies of President Obama. Secretary Kelly’s actions return the Department of Homeland Security to its central mission. These actions prioritize the deportation of criminal immigrants, allocate resources to construct physical barriers along our southern border, and increase the number of immigration and border personnel to keep our communities safe from the scourge of illegal immigration.” — U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio “I think we are a nation of laws, and I think there needs to be respect for the law. As a federal prosecutor, you have to prioritize who you are looking at in terms of prosecution and deportations. I think this quite frankly is not a very large departure from the previous administration, because they were again prioritizing criminal aliens and in fact deported more than the Bush administration. I think you’re going to see more of an emphasis on this though, you’re going to see more of an incentive to get people, who are in this country, who are not acting in good faith, who are a danger to our public safety, out.” — U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Austin “The new, heartless mass deportation measures raise more questions than they answer, including how Trump will pay for the billions needed for new border guards, detention facilities, and the wall he threatens. Violent criminals should be removed, but Trump’s anti-family plan would put vulnerable children at risk and tear families apart. It is short-sighted, cruel, will hurt local law enforcement’s ability to fight crime and will certainly not make America great or safe. Instead, we should work together to fix our immigration system.” — U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin “The national security of the United States and its citizens is paramount to anything else. I firmly support a temporary travel ban on individuals from countries of concern - a designation given by the Obama administration’s Department of Homeland Security. During this time we must ensure our vetting process is completely foolproof.” — U.S. Rep. Roger Williams, R-Austin
02.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) issued the following statement after 19 year-old Josue Romero was detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) in San Antonio: “After conferring with his father and his attorney, I have tonight made a formal request to ICE in Washington for Josue’s immediate release. While its new policies may increasingly endanger millions of undocumented immigrants, the Trump Administration has not yet revoked DACA. ICE must not revoke DACA on a case-by-case basis. Josue is a student in good standing who is charged with misdemeanor marijuana possession. He poses no threat to our national security or public safety. The only threat posed is to Josue’s personal safety if ICE deports him to Honduras, a dangerous country which he has never known as home. I hope other members of our community will join in voicing their strong support for Josue.” The Congressman’s request for his release or parole is below: Acting Assistant Director Sean Hackbarth U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Department of Homeland Security 500 12th St. SW, Washington, DC 20536 Dear Acting Assistant Director Sean Hackbarth, I respectfully request a grant of parole for Josue Romero, A097398485, a nineteen-year-old constituent of the district that I represent in Congress. Josue was brought to the United States from Honduras as a young child by his family to escape violence and a lack of opportunity. The United States is the only country he has ever really called home. He did so well in public school in San Antonio that he was awarded a college scholarship. He is currently a student in good standing in his second year at the Southwest School of Art. Since middle school, he has participated in Say Sí, a highly regarded local youth development program that provides students with opportunities to develop artistic and social skills. Through the program, he took the initiative to mentor younger students. Josue is a “DREAMer,” who holds a permit under DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals). I have reviewed the statement that the Department of Homeland Security issued yesterday regarding the “Arrest of Alien Gang Member” which says in part that those “granted deferred action from deportation who are subsequently found to pose a threat to national security or public safety may have their deferred action terminated at any time and DHS may seek their removal from the United States.” Josue was apparently arrested for possession of less than two ounces of marijuana. He poses no threat to our security or safety. The only threat to safety is what may well happen to him personally if he is deported to Honduras. The Administration has not yet announced any change in Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. I would respectfully urge that this official policy not be changed on a case by case basis for individuals who may not be perfect but who are making a perfectly good contribution to our community. I urge you to release Josue on parole and to not deprive him of his home in San Antonio. Sincerely, Lloyd Doggett ###
02.14.2017	The House Ways and Means Committee on a party-line vote Tuesday defeated an amendment by U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, that would have used a little-known authority of the committee to secure and review in closed session President’ Trump’s tax returns. As a candidate and now as president, Trump has broken with precedent by not releasing his tax returns. ‘I am particularly concerned about conflicts with and entanglements with foreign governments and potential violations of the Emoluments Clause,” said Doggett, the ranking Democrat on the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Tax Policy. The Emoluments Clause is a constitutional provision that prohibits presidents, and other federal officials, from taking gifts or payments from foreign states. Another Democrat on the committee, U.S. Rep. Bill Pascrell, D-N.J., had sent a letter to Chairman Kevin Brady, R-The Woodlands, on Feb. 1, asking him to obtain Trump’s returns from the Internal Revenue Service so the committee could review them in closed session and decide whether they should be released publicly. In his letter, Pascrell noted that Trump’s business interests are entwined with state-owned enterprises in China, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Russia.. Brady rebuffed that request Monday, telling reporters, “If Congress begins to use its powers to rummage around in the tax returns of the president, what prevents Congress from doing the same to average Americans?” In offering his amendment, Doggett cited the opinion of George Yin, a professor of law and taxation at the University of Virginia and a former chief of staff of the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, who in an Op-Ed in the Washington Post last week, wrote that certain congressional committees, including Ways and Means, have, since 1924, had the power to order the disclosure of tax returns, “so as long as a disclosure served a legitimate committee purpose.” Doggett’s amendment was defeated on a 23 to 15 party-line vote. “I’m deeply troubled by this committee voting to cover-up important tax return information about potential entanglements of President Trump with foreign interests, including the Russians,” Doggett said in a statement after the vote. “Especially with General Flynn’s resignation after his entanglement with the Russians, the American people have reason to question whether, on this Valentine’s Day, more than ‘From Russia with Love’ is at stake here.” Michael Flynn resigned Monday as the president’s national security adviser after it was revealed he had misled Vice President Mike Pence and others about his contacts with the Russian ambassador to the United States. “There is no issue this committee could consider that is more important than assuring the confidence of the American people in our democracy – that our system of checks and balances truly works,” Doggett said.
02.14.2017	WASHINGTON (AP) — House Republicans have blocked an attempt by Democrats to use an obscure law to obtain President Donald Trump’s tax returns from the IRS. Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee tried to frame the issue as a matter of national security. They questioned whether Trump has any investments in Russia, though they offered no proof. The committee has legal authority to obtain confidential tax records. The committee could then vote to make them public. Shunning decades of tradition, Trump has steadfastly refused to release them. Democratic Rep. Lloyd Doggett of Texas said Americans have a right to know if Trump has any, quote, “entanglements” with foreign countries. GOP Committee Chairman Kevin Brady of Texas said he would not let Democrats use the panel to go after a political rival.
02.14.2017	Republicans on the House Ways and Means Committee on Tuesday defeated an amendment by U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, that would have used a little-known authority of the committee to secure and review in closed session President Donald Trump’s income tax returns. As a candidate and now as president, Trump has broken with precedent by not releasing his tax returns. ‘I am particularly concerned about conflicts with and entanglements with foreign governments and potential violations of the Emoluments Clause,” said Doggett, the ranking Democrat on the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Tax Policy. The Emoluments Clause is a constitutional provision that prohibits presidents and other federal officials from taking gifts or payments from foreign states. On Feb. 1, another Democrat on the committee, U.S. Rep. Bill Pascrell, D-N.J., sent a letter to Chairman Kevin Brady, R-The Woodlands, asking him to obtain Trump’s returns from the Internal Revenue Service so the committee could review them in closed session and decide whether they should be released publicly. In his letter, Pascrell noted that Trump’s business interests are entwined with state-owned enterprises in China, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Russia. Brady rebuffed that request Monday, telling reporters, “If Congress begins to use its powers to rummage around in the tax returns of the president, what prevents Congress from doing the same to average Americans?” In offering his amendment, Doggett cited the opinion of George Yin, a professor of law and taxation at the University of Virginia and a former chief of staff of the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, who in an opinion article in the Washington Post last week, wrote that since 1924, certain congressional committees, including Ways and Means, have had the power to order the disclosure of tax returns, “so as long as a disclosure served a legitimate committee purpose.” Doggett’s amendment was defeated on a 23-15 party-line vote. “I’m deeply troubled by this committee voting to cover up important tax return information about potential entanglements of President Trump with foreign interests, including the Russians,” Doggett said in a statement after the vote. “Especially with General Flynn’s resignation after his entanglement with the Russians, the American people have reason to question whether, on this Valentine’s Day, more than ‘From Russia with Love’ is at stake here.” Michael Flynn resigned Monday as the president’s national security adviser after it was revealed he had misled Vice President Mike Pence and others about his contacts with the Russian ambassador to the United States. “There is no issue this committee could consider that is more important than assuring the confidence of the American people in our democracy – that our system of checks and balances truly works,” Doggett said. In January, Kellyanne Conway, senior adviser to the president, said on ABC’s “This Week,” that “he’s not going to release his tax returns. “We litigated this all through the election,” Conway said. “People didn’t care.”
02.14.2017	Around the country, Republican congressmen are facing angry crowds at town hall meetings – mostly from people defending the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare. Republicans have said they plan on repealing the law in the coming months. Voters across the country are now appealing to their members of Congress to stop the effort. But so far, it looks like these showdowns will not be seen in Central Austin anytime soon. That’s because Republican congressmen representing the Austin area are not holding town hall meetings while they're in their districts this week. The plan to show up in large numbers at town hall meetings is something Democrats learned from Tea Party activists. In his last interview as president, Barack Obama said the best way to defend the health care law was to take a page out of the Tea Party playbook. “I think the work is local as opposed to federal,” Obama said during an interview on the podcast Pod Save America. “I would pay attention to what a lot of the Tea Party did fighting the Affordable Care Act. You may disagree with the Tea Party, but they were effective in making sure their views were heard and amplified.” This advice was apparently heard. In Austin, folks are already fighting Republicans and the Trump administration at a local level. Andrew Matthews says he joined a group called Indivisible Austin, which is preparing to follow the Tea Party model. It “was not so much a movement of protest but just civic engagement,” he said. “A lot of other progressives and moderates have realized that we have pretty much seceded local politics to the extreme right wing for a long time,” he said. Matthews, like a lot of people in his group, isn’t a professional political organizer; he’s a filmmaker. He says he’s learning as he goes, but he does have an overall vision of what he wants to see happen. “My goal is just to keep people interested in their local representatives, keep them aware of that and keep the dialogue open with their local representatives,” he said. “And then how do we sustain that level of engagement, so that it’s a way of life, rather than just something we do for two or three months because we are all freaked out about Trump.” But for now, letter-writing, emails and phone calls are all they can do. Even though some members of Congress have been holding events in recent days, there are no local town hall meetings scheduled to be held by a Republican in Austin. Republican Sens. Ted Cruz and John Cornyn haven’t announced anything. A spokesperson for U.S. Rep. Mike McCaul says he doesn't have a town hall set for this week but his office is "working on details for listening posts for the week after.” U.S. Rep. Bill Flores’ office says “the Congressman will be meeting with constituents, on a variety of topics, during the district work period the week of the February 20th.” But he won’t be holding town hall events until April. U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith’s office says he’s also just meeting with constituents. U.S. Rep. Roger Williams’ office says he has an "active work schedule” this week. And Rep. John Carter’s office says he’s not scheduling a town hall, either. U.S. Lloyd Doggett, Austin's lone Democratic congressman, has already held events in both Austin and San Antonio focused on Obamacare. He also has an event planned for Sunday, March 5. If you want to see how Texas’ congressional delegation compares to the rest of the country, you can see who is holding town halls in this spreadsheet.
02.09.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, all House Ways and Means Committee Democrats joined together in urging their colleagues to oppose a resolution that would repeal recently finalized Department of Treasury rules that reduce tax incentives for corporate inversions – a practice in which some corporations have renounced their American citizenship to avoid their share of American taxes. “Corporations that benefit from our educated workforce, national security, and infrastructure should not be able to claim the benefits of being American, while renouncing their citizenship in order to avoid their responsibilities as taxpayers,” said Tax Policy Subcommittee Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett. “While much more action is needed, these important rules have already stopped some shenanigans. Repealing this modest Treasury rule would be an invitation for more corporations to head abroad. The pending repeal resolution represents a troubling leap backwards.” The Treasury Department took these important steps amidst the refusal of Congressional Republicans to take any action to address the wave of corporate “inversions,” whereby a U.S. company reincorporates abroad to lower its tax bill. Using existing authority under Section 385 of the tax code, these regulations reduce one of the major tax benefits of inverting by curtailing a tax avoidance strategy known as “earnings stripping.” The rules were finalized on October 13 after significant changes that incorporated extensive feedback from the business community. While they have not stopped every inversion, their announcement prompted U.S. drug maker Pfizer to cancel its plans to become a foreign company by merging with Allergen, a maneuver that would have cost the U.S. Treasury an estimated $35 billion. Pending H.J. Resolution 54 would invoke the Congressional Review Act – an expedited process for repealing rules—to repeal this anti-inversion measure and prohibit Treasury from crafting any future rules to tackle this type of tax avoidance. You may view the full statement below. February 8, 2017 Dear Colleague: We urge you to vote no on H.J. Resolution 54, a Republican proposal to repeal Treasury’s finalized debt-equity regulations issued under Section 385 of the tax code. These regulations are intended to combat aggressive corporate tax planning techniques that, rather than serving an economic purpose, are used by some corporations to avoid taxes. Treasury took these important steps amidst the refusal of Republicans in Congress to address the wave of corporate “inversions,” whereby a U.S. company reincorporates abroad to lower its tax bill. Using existing authority under Section 385 of the tax code, these regulations reduce one of the major tax benefits of undergoing an inversion by curtailing a tax avoidance strategy known as “earnings stripping.” While these measures have not stopped every inversion, once they were announced, U.S. drug maker Pfizer immediately canceled its inversion plans to become a foreign company by merging with Allergen, a maneuver that would have cost the U.S. Treasury an estimated $35 billion. When the draft debt-equity rules were announced in April of last year, members of Congress from both parties raised concerns that the rules had the potential to adversely affect ordinary business transactions that lacked a tax avoidance motive. Treasury made extensive revisions to its original draft in order to address these concerns. By moving to repeal Treasury’s anti-earnings stripping rules, Republicans in Congress will open the door to more companies renouncing their U.S. citizenship for tax purposes, while still reaping the benefits of doing business in America -- a tax practice President Trump railed against on the campaign trail. By invoking the Congressional Review Act, Republicans will block Treasury from crafting any more regulations to tackle this type of tax avoidance. We urge you to vote no on this Joint Resolution. Respectfully, Richard Neal Ranking Member, Committee on Ways and Means Lloyd Doggett Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Tax Policy, Committee on Ways and Means Sander Levin Committee on Ways and Means John Lewis Committee on Ways and Means Mike Thompson Committee on Ways and Means John B. Larson Committee on Ways and Means Earl Blumenauer Committee on Ways and Means Ron Kind Committee on Ways and Means Bill Pascrell Jr. Committee on Ways and Means Joseph Crowley Committee on Ways and Means Danny Davis Committee on Ways and Means Linda Sánchez Committee on Ways and Means Brian Higgins Committee on Ways and Means Terri Sewell Committee on Ways and Means Suzan DelBene Committee on Ways and Means Judy Chu Committee on Ways and Means ###
02.08.2017	Ordinary American taxpayers are subsidizing excessive CEO pay through a variety of channels. These five reforms could help end these perverse incentives for executive excess. 1. Close the “performance pay” loophole The more corporations pay their executives, the less they pay in federal taxes, thanks to a tax code loophole that lets corporations deduct unlimited amounts of executive compensation from their taxable income — as long as they label the pay “performance-based.” This loophole stems from a 1993 Clinton administration reform meant to address widespread public outrage over runaway CEO pay. The reform — Section 162(m) of the federal tax code — placed a $1 million cap on the deductibility of executive compensation. But by exempting “performance pay,” the reform invited an explosion of executive compensation in the form of deductible stock options, performance shares, and other bonuses designed to meet the exemption criteria. A recent Institute for Policy Studies analysis has found that America’s top 20 banks paid out more than $2 billion in fully deductible performance bonuses to their top five executives between 2012 and 2015, a windfall that translates into a taxpayer subsidy worth more than $725 million, or $1.7 million per executive per year. Senators Jack Reed and Richard Blumenthal and Rep. Lloyd Doggett have recently introduced the Stop Subsidizing Multimillion Dollar Corporate Bonuses Act (S. 82 and HR 399), which would eliminate the “performance pay” loophole. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimates this legislation would generate $50 billion over 10 years. 2. Limit tax-deferred compensation Most CEOs at large companies now legally shield unlimited amounts of compensation from taxes through special deferred accounts set up by their employers. In these accounts, their money can grow tax-free until they withdraw it. By contrast, ordinary taxpayers face strict limits on how much income they can defer from taxes via 401(k) plans. A December 2016 Institute for Policy Studies report found that Fortune 500 CEOs have nearly $3 billion in these special tax-deferred compensation accounts. In 2015 alone, these CEOs saved $92 million on their annual tax bill by putting $238 million more in these accounts than they could have if they were subject to the same rules as other workers. A University of Virginia Law School analysis points out that corporations also have a tax incentive to encourage executives to defer their compensation because the $1 million cap on deductibility of non-performance-based compensation (see #1 above) no longer applies after an executive has retired or otherwise ended their employment. In 2007, the Senate passed a minimum wage bill that would have limited annual executive pay deferrals to $1 million, but the provision was dropped in conference committee. 3. Link tax rates to CEO-worker pay ratios In December 2016, Portland, Oregon adopted the first-ever tax penalty on corporations with extremely wide gaps between their CEO and worker pay. Such gaps, supporters of the new tax point out, both contribute substantially to our overall economic inequality and undercut enterprise effectiveness. Portland has had a 2.2 percent business license tax. Under the city’s new business tax policy, companies with CEO-worker pay ratios of more than 100-to-1 will pay a 10 percent surtax on their business license tax liability. Companies with ratios of more than 250-to-1 will pay a 25 percent surtax. Revenue from the surtaxes will go for homeless services. For more information, see this IPS fact sheet. Elected officials in Rhode Island and San Francisco are moving ahead with similar proposals. At the federal level, the CEO Accountability and Responsibility Act (H.R. 6242), introduced in 2015, would increase tax rates on companies with larger than a 100-to-1 ratio, while giving a slight tax rate break to companies whose CEO-to-worker ratios fall below 50-to-1. These efforts build on Dodd-Frank Section 953b, which requires annual reporting of the ratio between CEO and median worker pay and is scheduled to go into effect starting with 2017 pay figures. Meanwhile, defenders of overpaid CEOs have been working to protect executives from this potentially embarrassing information. In the past few congressional sessions, Republicans have called for repeal of the pay ratio disclosure rule, citing absurdly inflated compliance costs generated by corporate lobby groups. Michigan Rep. Bill Huizenga, now chair of the House Financial Services subcommittee on capital markets, has led the crusade against this regulation. In the last two sessions, he introduced bills for repeal (H.R.414 in the 114th session and H.R.1135 in the 113th). In 2016 Huizenga introduced an amendment to prohibit the SEC from enforcing the disclosure rule. On the Senate side, Mike Rounds also introduced a repeal bill (S.1722) in the last session. The broader Republican proposal to roll back Wall Street reforms, the Financial CHOICE Act, would also repeal this pay ratio provision. Just this week, Michael Piwowar, the acting chair of the SEC, re-opened public comment on the pay ratio rule and said he may ask staff to review it. Piwowar expressed his intense opposition to the disclosure rule when the Commission voted on it in 2015. 4. Close the carried interest loophole This loophole allows private equity and hedge fund managers to pay a 20 percent capital gains rate on the bulk of their income, rather than the 39.6 percent ordinary income rate. As a result, some of the wealthiest Americans pay taxes at lower rates than millions of teachers, firefighters, and nurses. Many tax and finance experts from across the political spectrum argue that the profit share — commonly known as “carried interest” — investment fund managers now receive amounts to pay for services rendered and should not be treated as capital gains. The Joint Committee on Taxation estimates that closing this loophole would generate $15.6 billion over 10 years. Other tax experts predict far larger amounts. Polls show a strong majority of Americans are opposed to this unfair loophole —by 68 to 17 percent, according to Bloomberg News, and by 68 to 28 percent, according to Hart Research Associates. Democratic reform proposals have passed the House several times, only to fail in the Senate. The Carried Interest Fairness Act of 2015 (HR 2889/S 1689) represents the latest such effort. Lawmakers are also pursuing actions to close the loophole at the state level through surtaxes on investment management fees. Connect legislators introduced such a bill on January 31, 2017 and their counterparts have introduced or are considering introducing such proposals in New York, Massachusetts, New Jersey, and Rhode Island as part of a regionally coordinated effort. 5. End the stock option accounting double standard Current accounting rules allow companies to claim deductions for stock options that run much higher than the option value they report in their financial statements. The high deduction claim saves corporations on their taxes. The low valuation reported on financial statements inflates profits and raises share values, numbers that pump up executive “performance” rewards. In the 113th Congress Senators Carl Levin (D-Mich.) and SherSrod Brown (D-Ohio) included a provision in the Cut Unjustified Tax Loopholes Act (S. 268) that would require corporations to value options for tax purposes no greater than their financial statement book expense. In 2011, the Joint Committee on Taxation estimated this reform would raise $24.6 billion over 10 years. Sarah Anderson directs the Global Economy Project and co-edits Inequality.org at the Institute for Policy Studies.
02.07.2017	Washington -- The Republican-led House voted Thursday to repeal an Obama-era regulation that required the Social Security Administration to disclose to the national gun background check system information about people with mental illness. The regulation instituted in the final days of the Obama administration required the SSA to share information about those who are considered incapable of managing their own disability benefits due mental illness. The rule sought to limit the ability of those with mental illness to purchase guns but drew criticism for casting too wide a net and not providing the opportunity for due process. Opponents of the rule, including the National Rifle Association and the American Civil Liberties Union, also said the broad range of reasons that could be used to designate someone for the SSA database include conditions that should not stop a gun purchase. The vote was 235-180. "The Social Security Administration not only overstepped its mission with this regulation, it discriminated against certain Americans with disabilities who receive Social Security benefits. The agency should be focused on serving all of its beneficiaries, not picking and choosing whose Second Amendment rights to deny," said Rep. Kevin Brady, R-Texas, who chairs the Ways and Means Committee. Democrats complained that repealing the rule, which was adopted in the waning days of the Obama administration, would lead to more gun violence. "The American people and the families that are being hurt day after day by gun violence -- they deserve some due process too," said Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas. Republicans are using the Congressional Review Act to roll back all manner of regulations put in place by Obama before he left office. The Senate is expected to pass the National Rifle Association-backed measure soon and President Donald Trump is expected to sign it.
02.02.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the House Ways & Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, spoke out on the House Floor against gun violence. He voted “no” on House Joint Resolution 40, which would overturn an existing Social Security Administration (SSA) rule that requires submission of records to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). House Joint Resolution 40 would weaken the firearms background check system by excluding those with the most severe and incapacitating forms of impairment. Some Americans who have a mental impairment that is so significant, either from birth or contracting it thereafter, that taxpayers provide them support through the Social Security Disability System. They’re declared to be disabled. And within that group, there is a much smaller group whose disability is so severe that they can’t handle their own affairs. Remarking on the effect of this resolution, Rep. Doggett said: “They can’t receive a check in their hands – you have to give it to someone else – but it’s okay to put a gun in their hands. And that’s what this proposal does.” “The American people and the families that are being hurt day after day by gun violence – they deserve some due process too. Let’s uphold this rule and reject this step backward, this giant step backward, that will only produce more gun violence and more families torn asunder.” You can access the full video of Rep. Doggett’s remarks here: https://youtu.be/uHZY3aUsmWA You can find a full transcript below. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett February 2, 2017 House Floor Speech At a time here in America when mass shootings have become all too frequent, at a time when bullets literally rip apart human bodies and human families and cause so much pain. At a time when effective groups like Moms Demand Action and Texas Gun Sense and the P.E.A.C.E. Initiative are asking this Congress to act to reduce gun violence, this Congress has committed itself to doing absolutely nothing about that violence. If you are on the terrorist watch list, and you cannot fly? Not to worry about buying a gun. No fly but you can buy. And today we are told that the problem isn’t that there are too many guns out there causing too much harm to American families. They’re not enough. A group got left out, omitted from access to guns. There are a group of Americans who either from birth or contracting some mental disability later in life, have an impairment, a mental impairment, that is so significant that we ask taxpayers across America to provide them support through the Social Security Disability System. They’re declared to be disabled. And within that group that is taxpayer funded, there is a much smaller group whose disability is so severe that they can’t handle their own affairs. They can’t receive a check. But these folks say, don’t worry that you can’t place a check in their hands, you have to give it to someone else, it’s okay to put a gun in their hands. And that’s what this proposal does. We have, as they have failed to point out, a system in place at the Veterans Administration so that if someone is a veteran and they are disabled there is a process by which they are included in this system. But these folks instead of reaching out to do something about gun violence in America propose to make more accessible to individuals who are so impaired that they cannot take care of themselves in many ways, cannot even accept a check, to say give them a gun. There are already safeguards in this Rule. Someone can appeal being listed and say, you know, I can’t accept this check, but I do have an ability to own a gun, and they can do that through the Social Security Administration as soon as they see their name on the list. Or if they are denied a purchase at a later time and they are someone who doesn’t belong on this list, there is a way to get off the list. In short there is due process for them to assure that they are not unfairly denied a gun purchase. But the American people and the families that are being hurt day after day by gun violence-- they deserve some due process too. Let’s uphold this rule and reject this step backward, this giant step backward, that will only produce more gun violence and more families torn asunder. ###
02.02.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Tax Policy Subcommittee, introduced today the Expand American Educational Opportunity Act, which would help working families pay for college. This legislation is part of a tax package to support the middle class that also included Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal’s legislation to expand the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) and Rep. Rosa DeLauro’s legislation to expand the Child Tax Credit. “Removing financial barriers to higher education enables students to fulfill their full God-given potential, climb the ladder to success, and to strengthen our economic competitiveness,” said Tax Policy Subcommittee Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett. “This legislation would strengthen and simplify the education credit, which already helps millions to pay for college. Better coordinating the credit with Pell Grants will provide greater support for those who need it most.” Background Since its 2009 enactment, the American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC) has helped millions of students and working families pay for college. With bipartisan support, it was made permanent in 2015. This legislation would provide support to those who most need it by increasing the portion of the credit that is refundable, and allowing Pell Grant recipients to get its full benefit. It would also simplify the credit by eliminating the need for two separate higher education credits, while increasing the credit’s lifetime maximum limit. The bill’s endorsers include: American Association of Community Colleges, American Association of State Colleges and Universities, American Council on Education, Association of American Universities, Association of Community College Trustees, Association of Public and Land-grant Universities, Council for Christian Colleges & Universities, Council for Opportunity in Education, Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities, NASPA – Student Affairs Administrators in Higher Education, National Association of College and University Business Officers, and National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities. ###
02.01.2017	Gov. Greg Abbott is carrying out a promise, effective immediately, to withhold state grant money administered by his office to Travis County because of a new jail policy related to immigration, his office told the American-Statesman on Wednesday. “This morning, the governor’s office is canceling all currently active Travis County criminal justice grants,” Abbott spokesman John Wittman said. So far, the state has paid only about $300,000 of $1.8 million to the county, so the loss will total about $1.5 million. Sheriff Sally Hernandez said in an interview with reporters Wednesday that she is following state and federal laws and has no plans to change her new policy. Travis County Judge Sarah Eckhardt also responded Wednesday — in both a news conference and a two-page letter to Abbott. She said the county will work to continue operating programs that were paid for by the grants. “I am confident Sheriff Hernandez’s policy is well within the current law,” Eckhardt wrote. “I am certain you have come to the same conclusion; else you would not be seeking to change the current state law to put all Texas sheriffs in the service the United States Department of Homeland Security.” However, Eckhardt said the county will obey any future state laws that may be adopted concerning the matter. “We will comply by shifting our limited resources to federal responsibilities,” she wrote. Also Wednesday afternoon, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett released a statement condemning Abbott’s actions, saying, “Its vindictiveness is more like Russian President Putin’s authoritarian regime than our democracy. His anti-immigrant hysteria damages local law enforcement and our entire community.” The grants support projects such as family violence education and a special court for veterans. Abbott’s announcement comes as Hernandez enacted a new policy Wednesday under which she will detain inmates on behalf of federal immigration officials only when they are charged with murder, sexual assault or human smuggling. The new policy changes a longstanding agreement that allowed agents from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to place “immigration holds” or “detainers” on Travis County inmates — no matter the seriousness of the crime for which they are arrested — when agents want to further investigate their status. But critics have said the process results in deportations of people for relatively minor crimes. They also contend that suspects might be held indefinitely, only for agents to later discover they have legal permission to stay in the U.S. Voters supported Hernandez in the Democratic primary after she campaigned on ending local cooperation with federal immigration officials at the Travis County Jail. Abbott and his supporters say that such resistance amounts to sheriffs refusing to follow the law. In a letter to Hernandez in late January, the governor vowed to work with the Legislature to “protect our citizens from misguided and dangerous sanctuary policies.” “Texas must enact tough penalties that punish those who would put themselves above the law, and even above the community they purportedly serve,” Abbott wrote. CORRECTION: This story has been updated to correct the nature of the grants. The money is administered by the governor’s office.
02.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Ranking Democrat on the House Ways & Means Subcommittee on Tax Policy and former justice on the Texas Supreme Court, issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s Supreme Court nomination: “Unprecedented obstruction by Senate Republicans prevented action on a well-qualified, mainstream nominee last year. They have no basis for complaining now about a thorough examination of what appears to be an ideologue, who could significantly undermine our rights and offer no check on the excesses of this President. As a former Texas Supreme Court Justice, I care deeply about the balance on this court. Let's not have a rush to justice. This is a critical position for which we do really need ‘extreme vetting.’” ###
01.31.2017	U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett said Monday that President Donald Trump’s executive order on immigration and refugees was ‘un-American” in design and “bungled” in execution. “It doesn’t make us safer; it makes us less secure,” said Doggett, Austin’s only Democratic member of Congress. “I think we have a pretty good screening process in place right now, and anything that begins to single out or target Muslims will get the kind of resistance that we saw here in Austin and airports all over the country, coast to coast.” One Texas Republican — U.S. Rep. Will Hurd, a former undercover CIA agent who won re-election to a second term from a competitive West Texas district without endorsing Trump — joined Doggett in criticizing as dangerously misguided the executive order temporarily suspending the issuing of visas to nationals from seven Muslim-majority nations. “The executive order banning visa adjudication from seven countries does not make us safer; rather, it decreases the security of our homeland and endangers the lives of thousands of American men and women in our military, diplomatic corps and intelligence services,” Hurd said in a statement Sunday. But most other Texas Republicans either held their peace for the time being — including Gov. Greg Abbott, Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick, Attorney General Ken Paxton and U.S. Sens. John Cornyn and Ted Cruz — or praised the president’s action, while also in some cases faulting its chaotic implementation, which was met with spontaneous protests at a number of airports over the weekend. Most notably, U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Austin, chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, tempered his initially effusive praise for the policy when it was unveiled Friday with an expression of concern about its execution Sunday. McCaul, who was in the running to serve as Trump’s secretary of homeland security, worked behind the scenes with former New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani in guiding candidate Trump from an outright ban on Muslim immigration, at least on a temporary basis, which he called for in the campaign, to the far more limited policy put in place this weekend. “Today, President Trump signed an order to help prevent jihadists from infiltrating the United States,” McCaul said Friday. “With the stroke of a pen, he is doing more to shut down terrorist pathways into this country than the last administration did in eight years. But on Sunday, McCaul said, “In light of the confusion and uncertainty created in the wake of the president’s executive order, it is clear adjustments are needed. “We should not simply turn away individuals who already have lawful U.S. visas or green cards — like those who have risked their lives serving alongside our forces overseas or who call America their home,” McCaul said. “In the future, such policy changes should be better coordinated with the agencies implementing them and with Congress to ensure we get it right — and don’t undermine our nation’s credibility while trying to restore it,” McCaul said. “At the same time, it is deeply irresponsible to characterize this executive order as a ‘Muslim ban.’ It is not.” U.S. Reps. Bill Flores, R-Bryan, and John Carter, R-Round Rock, struck a similar balance. “As chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Committee, I know first-hand the challenges that our customs and intelligence personnel face when attempting to vet applicants from countries with little to no record keeping,” Carter said in a statement Monday. “While implementation of the new policy could have been better communicated, I support President Trump’s efforts to increase security measures and vetting processes on people seeking visas to our country, and those refugees seeking asylum.” In an appearance Sunday on Fox News, Flores said, “I wish the administration had taken a few extra minutes to make sure everybody was on the same page.” But Flores, who represents parts of North Austin and Pflugerville, dismissed most of the criticism being directed at the executive order as unfounded and overheated. “This is a temporary pause. It’s not a ban. It’s not a ban on Muslims. There is not a religious test or anything of that nature,” he said. Both U.S. Reps. Roger Williams, R-Austin, and Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio, in statements of support for the policy, stressed a Trump administration talking point — that the seven nations singled out had been designated as countries of concern by the Obama administration, and that the new order was only temporary. “This action is temporary,” said Smith, who represents Old West Austin, West Campus, much of downtown Austin and a swath of South Austin. “The regular process will resume once security policies are updated over the next 90 days.” “During this time we must ensure our vetting process is completely foolproof,” Williams said. At the daily White House press briefing, White House spokesman Sean Spicer said that the policy embodied in the executive order enjoys broad public support and that the political fuss about it was completely overblown. What he did not say was that the uproar over its implementation might only serve to remind Trump voters that their candidate had delivered as president on at least a version of a deeply contested policy on which he had campaigned.
01.30.2017	Austin/San Antonio Congressman Lloyd Doggett visited Foundation Communities Monday morning, reminding Austinites that the deadline for enrolling in health insurance under the Affordable Care Act (aka “Obamacare”) is Tuesday, Jan. 31, at 12 midnight. Despite the debate in Washington, new enrollees need to act now in order to have insurance in 2017. Elizabeth Colvin, director of Foundation Communities' Insure Central Texas project, first pointed out that President Donald Trump’s executive order (instructing federal agencies to reduce the impact of the Affordable Care Act) did not, in fact, repeal the law, which remains in place. Austinites needing health insurance can still enroll in the program – either in person at one of Foundation Communities' enrollment sites or online – through Tuesday. In-person enrollment is available today until 7pm, and tomorrow from 9am-7pm. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (Photo by Michael King) The organization has two sites for enrollment: 5900 Airport and 2600 W. Stassney. No appointment is necessary – indeed, while the press conference took place, numerous counselors were working with clients to complete their enrollment in health insurance. More information is available online. Doggett reiterated Colvin’s message that people need to enroll today or tomorrow, and not to confuse the D.C. debate over Obamacare with immediate loss of access for insurance. “I would be the first to admit that the ACA has shortcomings and flaws that need to be fixed,” he said, noting particularly that he is working to lower the cost of prescription drugs under the ACA. “But people need to remember that it is so much better than what we had before,” when coverage could be denied for pre-existing conditions, and so many people had no health insurance at all. “If you enroll for 2017,” Doggett, “that is a contract with the insurer that cannot be taken away.” Concerning the threats by Republican officials to “repeal and replace” Obamacare, Doggett cited news reports reflecting that Republicans are divided over any plans for replacement, and that they are reluctant to remove popular benefits of the law – e.g., coverage for pre-existing conditions and for children through age 26 under family plans. He cited the experience of his own family members, who were denied coverage before the ACA, and reiterated that the law protects all Americans, not just those who acquired insurance under Obamacare. “It’s easier to pass ‘repeal’ votes against ‘Obamacare’ because you don’t like the ‘Obama’ part,” Doggett told reporters, “than it is to design a replacement that won’t deny coverage to tens of millions of our neighbors – not new coverage, but taking away a right they already have,” because they had the foresight to sign up under the law. “It’s much more difficult to design a law that maintains coverage for those who now have it,” he continued, “or to fulfill President Trump’s statement that he wants a law that provides health insurance for everybody.” Doggett introduced renowned local musician John Chipman, who described his own experience before and after Obamacare. He and his wife had serious health problems that would not have been covered by health insurance prior to the law requiring coverage of pre-existing conditions. “Because of those conditions, we would not have been able to get health insurance. [My two children] are also covered. The pre-existing condition coverage is so important … and it doesn’t just cover people under the ACA, but also those who get insurance through their employers." “Any talk of repeal of this law, to my mind, is absolute insanity,” concluded Chipman. “We need to do everything we can to put pressure on Washington, D.C., to make sure they take care of Americans the way they are supposed to.” Doggett summed up the immediate situation: “If you don’t get here by 7pm tomorrow night, or you don’t get online by midnight tomorrow, you lose something really important – and that is the security and peace of mind of knowing that you and your family have affordable health insurance.” More information on enrolling in health insurance through Foundation Communities is available here. More information about enrolling online is available on the ACA website.
01.25.2017	Washington – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) responded to President Donald Trump’s new executive actions: “President Trump’s anti-immigrant orders mask his broken campaign promise—he is not building a wall that Mexico will pay for. Now he demands that American taxpayers pay for his folly with the false hope that someday he can eventually extort the money from Mexico. Nor does he have legal authority to interfere with local law enforcement by denying federal funds to those wrongly categorized as “sanctuary cities.” To achieve both true security and economic growth, we need to reject his narrow-minded approach in favor of comprehensive immigration reform.” ###
01.25.2017	Washington – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) issued the following statement following Texas Governor Greg Abbott’s call to “remove from office any officeholder who promotes sanctuary cities.”: “How about removing those from office who make up the law to suit their own political needs! Neither Governor Abbott nor the Legislature have any authority to remove a duly elected Sheriff, whose office is established by the Texas Constitution. The Governor shows contempt for both the Texas Constitution and the Bill of Rights in the United States Constitution. Ours is not a "sanctuary " city or county, but a refuge from anti-immigrant hysteria, with a strong commitment to effective law enforcement. Governor Abbott and his cronies have tried to remove me personally from office more than once; he will be equally unsuccessful trying to eliminate others who don’t fit his narrow Republican political mold.” ###
01.25.2017	San Antonio, Texas — On Saturday, January 28, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett and Congressman Joaquin Castro will hold a forum for San Antonians in support of the Affordable Care Act. They will talk about the gains we have made, discuss what more needs to be done, and highlight stories provided by San Antonio families on how the Affordable Care Act has helped them. The forum will take place at Daughters of Charity Services, where residents will have the opportunity to enroll for coverage. This event is open to the Public and Press is encouraged to attend. Who: U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett U.S. Congressman Joaquin Castro Where: Daughters of Charity Services 7607 Somerset Road San Antonio, TX 78211 When: Saturday, January 28, 2017, 2:00 PM ###
01.22.2017	Video of Interview with KVUE on Austin Women&amp;#039;s March and Year Ahead
01.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, has joined some 50 House Democrats — including two others from Texas — who will not be attending President-elect Trump’s inauguration on Friday as the 45th president of the United States. “We are sending a message to Mr. Trump. Respect, like Pennsylvania Avenue, is a two-way street,” Doggett said in a tweet Tuesday afternoon. “Instead of uniting our country, his continued unprecedented, unpresidential actions are further dividing it. By repeatedly taking the lowest road, he is not showing respect for the highest office. We are in for a long struggle that must strategically utilize every nonviolent opposition tool available.” Doggett is the third Texas Democrat to say he will not be attending the Trump inaugural to express their disapproval of Trump’s behavior. “I will not attend the inauguration because conscience says it is the right thing to do,” U.S. Rep. Al Green, D-Houston, said in a statement. “Every American should respect the office of the presidency and the fact that Donald Trump will be the 45th President of the United States,” U.S. Rep. Joaquin Castro, D-San Antonio, said in a statement. “But winning an election does not mean a man can show contempt for millions of Americans and then expect those very people to celebrate him.” U.S. Rep. Barbara Lee, D-California, last Thursday was the first member of Congress to say she wouldn’t be attending the inauguration because, she said in a statement, “Donald Trump has proven that his administration will normalize the most extreme fringes of the Republican Party. On Inauguration Day, I will not be celebrating. I will be organizing and preparing for resistance.” The boycott really gained steam after U.S. Rep. John Lewis, the Georgia Democratic, who as a young man played a heroic role in the Civil Rights Movement, told Chuck Todd in an interview for “Meet the Press” that he could not attend the inauguration because, “I don’t see the president-elect as a legitimate president.” “I think the Russians participated in helping this man get elected. And they helped destroy the candidacy of Hillary Clinton,” Lewis said. But, what really sparked outrage among Democrats was Trump’s reply to Lewis. In two tweets, the president-elect said, “Congressman John Lewis should spend more time on fixing and helping his district, which is in horrible shape and falling apart (not to……mention crime infested) rather than falsely complaining about the election results. All talk, talk, talk — no action or results. Sad!”
01.17.2017	Washington—Today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), senior member of the Ways & Means Committee and ranking member of the Subcommittee on Tax Policy, said he will not attend the Inauguration. He stated: “We are sending a message to Mr. Trump. Respect, like Pennsylvania Avenue, is a two-way street. Instead of uniting our country, his continued unprecedented, unpresidential actions are further dividing it. By repeatedly taking the lowest road, he is not showing respect for the highest office. We are in for a long struggle that must strategically utilize every nonviolent opposition tool available.”
01.10.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), along with U.S. Senators Jack Reed (D-RI) and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), are introducing the Stop Subsidizing Multimillion Dollar Corporate Bonuses Act. This legislation would close a major loophole in current corporate tax law by putting an end to unlimited tax write-offs on performance-based executive pay. This Reed-Blumenthal-Doggett bill would end special tax exemptions for huge CEO bonuses and prevent publicly traded corporations from deducting the cost of multimillion-dollar bonuses from their corporate tax bills. “Our tax code has a perverse incentive for companies: the more you pay your executives, the less you’ll pay in taxes. It is wrong to compel working families and small businesses to foot part of the bill for lavish executive bonuses. This bill lets companies like Wells Fargo know that they can choose to hand their CEO $155 million as they pay billions in penalties for wrongdoing, but don’t expect the American taxpayer to pick up part of the tab.” said Congressman Doggett. Over a ten year window, the Joint Committee on Taxation has estimated this legislation would close a loophole that costs U.S. taxpayers over $50 billion. Under current tax law, when a publicly traded corporation calculates its taxable income, it is generally permitted to deduct the cost of compensation from its revenues, with limits up to $1 million for some of the firm’s most senior executives. However, a loophole relating to performance-based compensation has allowed many public corporations to avoid such limits and freely deduct excessive executive compensation. To illustrate how this loophole works, if a CEO receives $1 million in cash compensation and $14 million in performance-based compensation in a given year, the public corporation's taxable income would decline by $15 million. With the current corporate tax rate at 35 percent, the corporation in this case would receive a tax give-away of $5.25 million. The Stop Subsidizing Multimillion Dollar Corporate Bonuses Act puts an end to that give-away and limits public corporations to a single $1 million per employee deduction as was originally intended. Using the same example above, a profitable public corporation could deduct $1 million of the CEO’s $15 million compensation package but could not claim a deduction on the remaining $14 million. So instead of claiming $5.25 million in federal subsidies for the CEO’s pay, this public corporation would pay its fair share just like every middle-class family in America. “We need to prioritize tax breaks that grow our economy and strengthen the middle class. This bill would eliminate some of the inequity in the tax code. Again, companies are free to pay their executives as much as they want. But the American taxpayer shouldn’t help foot the bill for a CEO’s multimillion-dollar bonus,” said Senator Reed. “The Stop Subsidizing Multimillion Dollar Corporate Bonuses Act puts an end to this give-away and will restore fairness to the tax code and ensure corporations, not taxpayers, are the ones who pay for multi-million dollar bonuses." “It is unconscionable that American taxpayers subsidize tens of billions of dollars in corporate bonuses while middle-class wages stagnate and income inequality rises,” said Senator Blumenthal. “We should be investing in working families, not using taxpayer dollars for tax breaks to corporations that overpay their executives. Corporations should be free to pay their executives whatever they wish, but not at the expense of American taxpayers.” President-elect Trump has acknowledged the problem of excessive CEO pay. During a 2015 interview on CBS’s Face the Nation, Trump stated: “Well, it does bug me. It’s very hard if you have a free enterprise system to do anything about that. The boards of companies are supposed to do it. But I know companies very well. And the CEO puts in all his friends. And so you will take a company like, I could say Macy's or many other companies, where they put in their friends as head of the company, and they get whatever they want, because the friends love sitting on the board. So that's a system that we have. And it's a shame and it's disgraceful. And, sometimes, the boards rule. But I would say it’s probably less than 10 percent. And you see these guys making these enormous amounts of money. It's a total and complete joke.” Republican lawmakers have long recognized that the law needs to be updated. In 2006, Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA), the then-chair of the Senate Committee on Finance, stated: “162(m) is broken. …It was well-intentioned. But it really hasn’t worked at all. Companies have found it easy to get around the law. It has more holes than Swiss cheese. And it seems to have encouraged the options industry. These sophisticated folks are working with Swiss-watch-like devices to game this Swiss-cheese-like rule.” The Stop Subsidizing Multimillion Dollar Corporate Bonuses Act would allow publicly traded corporations to pay their executives as much as they desire, but compensation above and beyond $1 million would no longer be subsidized by other hardworking taxpayers through our tax code. Specifically, the Stop Subsidizing Multimillion Dollar Corporate Bonuses Act would: Broaden the scope of corporations subject to 162(m) from: “publically held corporations that issue any class of common equity securities registered under section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the ’34 Act)” to: “any corporation that qualifies as an issuer whose securities are registered under section 12 of the ‘34 Act or that is required to file reports under section 15(d) of the ‘34 Act.” The effect of this would be to capture all corporations that file periodic reports, such as quarterly and annual filings, with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for the benefit of investors. Broaden the number of employees from: “the CEO and the 3 highest compensated officers” to: “all current and former employees.” Eliminate the exception for commission-based remuneration and for performance-based compensation. ###
01.05.2017	Jan. 03--The independent congressional ethics panel that was the target of House Republicans this week investigated a Central Texas congressman last year for possible ethics violations. The board of the Office of Congressional Ethics in April voted 6-0 to recommend that the U.S. House Ethics Committee investigate U.S. Rep. Roger Williams, R-Austin, for having a possible conflict of interest when he proposed legislation that benefits car dealerships. The matter is still pending before the committee. Williams, who has denied wrongdoing, didn’t respond to questions about how he voted Sunday night in a closed door meeting. House Republicans reversed course on the proposal to hamper the authority of the ethics board amid backlash from watchdog groups, Democrats and President-elect Donald Trump. ”It’s important to know here that almost two thirds of the allegations that have come to the (Office of Congressional Ethics) have been dismissed. So the notion that it is an entity out of control is totally false,” said Meredith McGehee, chief of policy at Issue One, which worked with fellow Washington, D.C.-based nonpartisan nonprofit Campaign Legal Center to file the complaint on Williams. Williams, who owns a Weatherford car dealership, inserted into a $300 billion transportation funding bill in 2015, a provision that exempted some car dealerships from a proposal to prevent rental car companies from renting out vehicles that are subject to safety recalls. The exemption, which became law June 1, was modified so that it only applied to businesses with fewer than 35 loaner cars. Williams’ spokesman Vince Zito had said that the congressman proposed the legislation because he had expertise in the subject area and that House rules do not prevent members from voting on legislation that would affect many individuals, like businesses, as opposed to one. Fellow Central Texas Republican Bill Flores, whose district includes parts of North Austin and stretches to Bryan and Waco, voted in favor of limiting the ethics office. He did not respond to a request for a comment explaining his vote. U.S. Rep. John Carter, R-Round Rock, said he voted against it. ”As a former judge, I do believe reform of the Office of Congressional ethnics is warranted to ensure proper due process protections. I believe reform will best be done in a transparent and bipartisan manner,” Carter said. U.S. Reps. Michael McCaul, R-Austin, and Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio, did not respond to requests on how they voted. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, condemned the proposal. ”The last-minute Republican attempt to muzzle a watchdog failed. A strong united voice can make a difference. As Republicans continue to overreach, we must continue to push back,” Doggett said. Under the proposal, the Office of Congressional Ethics, created in 2008, would not investigate anonymous tips or refer cases to prosecutors without the permission of the House Ethics Committee, which could also end any of the office’s probes. Currently, the office does not have the ability to adjudicate guilt, innocence or a penalty on individuals, but instead, recommends further investigation and adjudication to the House Ethics Committee.
12.29.2016	By Michael King “Anybody need a courthouse?” was not exactly the question posed by the U.S. General Services Administration, but the U.S. government's (technically, the National Park Service) disused 1936 courthouse just happened to match the pressing needs of the Travis County justice system. This morning, the transfer was completed. “I am thrilled by the opportunity to partner with the federal government on the preservation of this historic public building by maintaining it as a courthouse,” said Travis County Judge Sarah Eckhardt. “Although this gift from our federal partners does not solve our overall court capacity issues in the long-term, it is a great reliever of our current overcrowding at the nearby Heman Marion Sweatt Courthouse, another historic public building. The reuse plan for the historic federal courthouse enables Travis County to meet current and future Travis County Probate Court needs through 2035.” The morning press conference, on the courthouse steps at 200 West 8th Street, featured officials from the federal judiciary, Travis County, and U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, whom federal Judge Lee Yeakel and Eckhardt each credited for his “dogged” work to get the transaction done. After the November 2014 defeat of a bond to underwrite a new civil courthouse, Travis County had been left without a certain alternative to its overcrowded and increasingly dilapidated Heman Marion Sweatt Courthouse, and Commissioners Court had been searching for other solutions. Said Eckhardt, “Although this gift from our federal partners does not solve our overall court capacity issues in the long-term, it is a great reliever of our current overcrowding at the nearby Heman Marion Sweatt Courthouse, another historic public building. The reuse plan for the historic federal courthouse enables Travis County to meet current and future Travis County Probate Court needs through 2035.” Doggett was credited with monitoring and wrangling the various agencies with interest in the exchange – the General Services Administration, the National Park Service, the federal judiciary, and Travis County – and said with a smile, “From good words, today we proceed to good deeds” (obliquely referring to the literal transfer of the courthouse deed). “This success was the result of several levels of federal and county government working together,” Doggett said, “to ensure the building would remain a place where justice, and its historic architecture, are preserved.” The courthouse, built in 1935 and notable for its Art Deco and Art Moderne architectural details, has been vacant since the 2012 opening of the new federal courthouse on West Fifth St., and will need major renovations. Eckhardt said that Commissioners Court has budgeted $28 million from reserves and certificates of obligation to complete the renovations – to restore the interior and bring it up to current building codes will cost about $20 million, she said, with $8 million necessary specifically to adapt the structure for use by the County’s probate courts. That move will also relieve some of the overcrowding at the Heman Sweatt venue, Eckhardt said, adding, “Travis County will ensure that the historic federal courthouse continues to bear witness to our civic history. The County will undertake design, construction, and contingencies to prepare the building to meet code requirements and County occupancy by 2020.” Doggett particularly thanked Judge Eckhardt, Judge Yeakel, and GSA Administrator Sylvia Hernandez for their work to make the transfer possible, and concluded: “This deed ensures that the historic features of this landmark, inside and out, are preserved, and that it continues in the role originally envisioned as a home for justice—an old home for justice is now becoming a new home of justice. This building is more than its cream-colored limestone; it is built on more than its Texas gray granite base. It embodies the fundamental American belief that we are a nation of laws. Through the cooperation of many, today we ensure that the important work of justice continues here.”
12.29.2016	By Taylor Goldstein After a failed bond referendum and months of uncertainty, at least some of Travis County’s court space woes may soon be behind it. Officials announced Thursday morning that the federal government approved the county’s application to take the old U.S. courthouse at 200 W. Eighth St. for its probate court and clerks offices. “Thanks, Uncle Sam, for a wonderful Christmas present,” County Judge Sarah Eckhardt said with a big grin Thursday as General Services Administration Regional Administrator Sylvia Hernandez handed her the for-show deed. The 81-year-old building that has sat vacant for four years had been declared surplus by the federal government and will therefore be free of cost to the county. Travis County officials have been searching for a way to free up space in the overcrowded, aging Heman Marion Sweatt Courthouse several blocks away ever since about a year ago voters rejected a $287-million bond that would have paid for a new civil courthouse. “Although this gift from our federal partners does not solve all our overall court capacity issues long-term, it is a great reliever of our current overcrowding,” Eckhardt said, before thanking many federal, state and local supporters. County officials initially estimate it will cost $28 million to renovate the old building for modern use and to bring it up to code. They expect it will take until 2020 for it to open and that it will last the county until 2035. The county will have to preserve the building’s historic elements, as it is on the National Register of Historic Places. The building, constructed in 1936, has many Depression-era modern architectural details as seen in its central massing, rectangular form, vertical flow of window bays, decorative metal rails and geometric details, Hernandez said. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, said the transfer of the building to Travis County represents an investment in not just the preservation of the building but in the system of justice. “What we have today really is an old home of justice, a very old home of justice through many decades, now once again acheiving its purpose as a place for justice for the future here in Travis County,” Doggett said. The county is still looking for sites for a new civil and family courthouse. The community advisory committee leading the search will bring its top three choices to the Commissioners Court likely in February.
12.20.2016	Putin’s Hack: What Difference Does It Make? All the hack amounted to was to shine a light on the cynicism and arrogance of John Podesta and the mandarins of the left. Dec. 15, 2016 3:35 p.m. ET Regarding your editorial “Russian Hackers and American Hacks” (Dec. 12): Not since 1939 and the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact has any political party engaged in such an opportunistic and amoral alliance with Russia as the Democratic Party has now done. If the goal of Russia’s hacking was to sow seeds of doubt about American democracy, it would have failed miserably. All the hack amounted to was to shine a light on the cynicism and arrogance of John Podesta and the mandarins of the left. This was already widely known. The Democratic Party appears intent on elevating what would otherwise be just another unsuccessful Russian escapade into something of relevance and credibility by insisting that Donald Trump got elected because of their influence. The Democrats are doing this out of pure political expediency, desperation at losing all power and a resolute refusal to do anything other than deny the real reason for its loss: the unlinking of the vast middle of America from the far left that is at the heart of the rot of a once-great party. John L. Rogitz San Diego The claims that Vladimir Putin interfered in our national election to help Mr. Trump are nonsense. As president of the U.S., Mr. Trump would be an unknown quantity to Mr. Putin. It is far more likely that Mr. Putin would have preferred to deal with Hillary Clinton as president, having outmaneuvered Secretary of State Clinton at every encounter. Steve Plemenos Whippany, N.J. The Democrats’ concern over allegations of foreign actors hacking critical U.S. systems appear irresponsibly selective. Where was their outrage and concern when foreign actors allegedly executed a cyberattack against the Office of Personnel Management in March 2014? Where was their outrage and concern when foreign actors compromised the White House communications systems in October 2014? What penalty did President Obama impose on the hacking governments to deter future attacks? Democrats who are deeply concerned with the possibility of Russian cyberattacks don’t appear to be equally invested in exploring how Hillary Clinton’s failure to use the secure state.gov email when she served as secretary of state may have contributed to these or other security breaches? Concerns about the hacking of Clinton campaign manager John Podesta and the Democratic National Committee’s systems are legitimate, but don’t entitle Mr. Podesta to lead a ludicrous partisan attempt to invalidate the 2016 presidential election results by challenging the individual casting of electoral votes. Michael P. Mulhall Rockville Centre, N.Y. If indeed the Russians hacked into John Podesta’s email, they have simply exposed the highly unethical behavior that exists at the highest levels of the Democratic Party. That should be the story that is reported and emphasized. John Payne Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. The evidence of Mr. Putin’s hostility toward Hillary Clinton has long been public and was covered in the press before the election. Mr. Putin was infuriated at Mrs. Clinton for her public denunciation of the December 2011 Russian parliamentary elections as having been unfair and unfree. She also said the Russian people deserved leaders who were accountable to them, clearly suggesting that Mr. Putin was not, and that any position he held as the Russian head of state was achieved through a rigged election. That denunciation, though very likely true, was also designed, in part, to label Mr. Putin as an illegitimate head of state and was used as part of U.S. efforts to foil Mr. Putin’s international diplomacy. Not surprisingly, Mr. Putin looked for an opportunity to reciprocate. The Russian hacking of the DNC and Podesta emails enabled him to do so. Edward T. McDermott Darien, Conn. It is all well and good for Democrats to blame Russian hackers. But if Russian hackers can penetrate the DNC website, how secure does Mrs. Clinton’s private email server look now? Richard J. McGowan Indianapolis Weren’t the actions taken by the Democratic Party against Bernie Sanders a manipulation of the primaries? Is this not another attempt by the Democratic Party to avoid taking responsibility for its election losses? First it was the fault of the director of the FBI. Then it was the Constitution’s fault because of the Electoral College. Then it was the fault of the integrity of the voting systems of the U.S. James Morse Bakersfield, Calif. Is there any evidence that the leaked documents are inaccurate or invalid? Weren’t the DNC and the Clinton campaign harmed by their own words? Sunshine, from any source, can still be a good disinfectant.
12.13.2016	ICE agrees to announce big releases By Jason Buch Published December 13, 2016 U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has agreed to give 24-hour notice before future large releases of families that will require assistance from San Antonio aid workers, according to people who attended a meeting with the agency over the weekend. ICE has also said that the numbers of families released over the weekend of Dec. 3-4 was not unusually high; what was unusual was how many were released without travel documents. On a given day, hundreds of women and children might be released from the family detention centers in Dilley and Karnes City, but the vast majority quickly board buses or airplanes, ICE officials told those at the meeting, said U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-San Antonio. ICE San Antonio Field Office Director Daniel Bible promised “he would take steps to make sure it wouldn’t happen again” and pledged to provide notice to the city and to aid groups like Refugee and Immigrant Center for Education and Legal Services if future releases are imminent, Doggett said. “There will be 24-hours notice to the city … and the same notice to RAICES or any group like Catholic Charities that they're expecting to care for incoming asylum seekers,” he said. “Secondly, they will not have anyone, barring extraordinary circumstances, that comes to the city after 9 in the evening.” During the meeting, Bible said there was a miscommunication about the number of families going to the San Antonio Mennonite Church, according to ICE. The number of people released that weekend “was within the average number of our recent releases” the agency said. “However, a higher percentage of family units during that weekend did not have prior travel arrangements, so ICE referred a larger than usual number of people to local nongovernmental organizations following their release from ICE custody.” Aid workers were overwhelmed Dec. 3-4 by the release of nearly 500 women and children, some of them well after midnight. Almost all were bound for other cities in the U.S. and hundreds didn’t have bus or airplane tickets. The Mennonite Church served as a temporary shelter, with air mattresses filling rooms and hallways, but the city deemed those unsafe conditions. District 4 Councilman Rey Saldaña praised Bible for taking responsibility but expressed frustration with what he described as an unwillingness on ICE’s part to provide details about who they’d be releasing. “They were almost allergic to sharing information with the city,” Saldaña said. “The folks who were responsible for this could not assure us that this would not happen again.” His concerns were echoed by Jonathan Ryan, RAICES’s executive director. Saldaña said the city needs to know whether families will need treatment, how many have travel documents and, for those using the bus, how many have unconfirmed tickets, which means they’re not guaranteed a seat on a bus that day. The city needs that information to know whether to create additional shelter space or arrange for more police officers, Saldaña said. “It was worse than listening to a meteorologist,” he said. “I could not get a good sense if we should be preparing for a storm every single day, or if we have a willing partner who’s going to let us know we need to be boarding up the windows.” District 1 Councilman Roberto Treviño said he came out of the meeting with a more positive outlook. He said the city has designated Department of Human Services Director Melody Woosley as a point person who ICE can communicate with about future releases and that opening lines of communication with ICE was “absolutely a benefit.”
12.12.2016	Following the unacceptable drop off of hundreds of asylum seekers last weekend, I went to work to ensure that this never happens again. I met with Mayor Taylor and other City officials, Jonathan Ryan with RAICES and faith leaders, who did a great job of working with the refugees, and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials. A constructive first step toward adequate notice, reasonable arrival times, and better cooperation. See more below:
12.12.2016	Celebrated VIA Centro Plaza's first birthday with President Jeff Arndt and Board Member Steve Allison and met VIA's newest mascots - Primo and Safety Sofie. Guadalupe Cultural Arts Center's Mariachis, led by Gino Rivera, sang happy birthday.
12.09.2016	Prescription Drug RTC - December 7 2016 by Rep. Lloyd Doggett on Scribd
11.30.2016	I spoke on the House floor for substantial, certain funding to develop lifesaving cures and treatments. But the new version of the 21st Century Cures Act provides about a quarter of the funding per year as the version that I voted for last year—and this new funding isn’t even guaranteed. Patients deserve better, especially if the trade-off is loosening safety standards on drugs and medical devices while getting no relief from high drug prices. I hope a “no” vote will give my colleagues in the Senate a chance to try to make this bill a little better.
11.30.2016	Politico: Trump names Quicken executive to HUD landing team amid lawsuit By Lorraine Woellert 11/29/2016 03:21 PM EDT President-elect Donald Trump has named Shawn Krause, the head of Quicken Loans' government relations operation, to the transition's landing team for the Department of Housing and Urban Development, which is involved in a highly charged federal lawsuit against the company. The Justice Department sued Quicken last year after the company refused to settle claims that it knowingly issued defective mortgages insured by HUD's Federal Housing Administration. Quicken has vowed to fight, saying that of nearly half a million loans, only a handful failed to meet technical muster under FHA rules. Earlier this month, a federal judge agreed to a Quicken request to transfer the case for trial from Washington, D.C., to Detroit, where the company is based. Mortgage lenders big and small have settled with Justice in similar cases, in part to avoid potential liability under the False Claims Act, a Civil War-era law that sets civil penalties at triple the amount of actual damages. In April, Wells Fargo agreed to pay $1.2 billion to settle a similar DOJ claim, a record for an FHA violation. Krause leads Quicken's government advocacy and was listed in Senate records as a registered lobbyist as of Nov. 18. She recently deregistered, Quicken Chief Executive Officer Bill Emerson told POLITICO. "Shawn has nothing to do with the DOJ," Emerson said. "I don't think it's a conflict of interest." Her industry experience, including in technology and capital markets, will provide the transition with insight into the agency, he said. "Other than writing loans, Shawn's done everything there is to do in the mortgage industry," Emerson said. "Having her on a landing team inside HUD, with her skill, her knowledge, it's one of the best things that could have happened to HUD."
11.29.2016	Rivard Report: Commentary: Emergency Room ‘Surprise Bills’ Hurt Patients and Need Policy Solution By Christopher Moriates and Victoria Valencia (Texas Perspectives, see below for bios) Posted November 29, 2016 1:00am The rapidly rising costs of insurance premiums emerged as a dominant focus after the presidential election. However, there is another major problem in the health care financing infrastructure that does not seem to get enough policy discussion – “surprise bills” sent directly to patients following care by physicians who may be working at an in-network facility but who are not actually in the patient’s insurance network. Imagine going to your local emergency room, knowing that the hospital is considered in-network by your insurance company, then a few weeks later receiving a bill for thousands of dollars to pay the out-of-network physician. You might think it was a mistake. You would be wrong. Hospitals generally contract with a group of emergency physicians to staff their emergency departments and also contract with insurance companies to provide in-network coverage in their emergency departments. The emergency physicians themselves, however, contract individually with the insurance companies, resulting in gaps of in-network coverage where the emergency room itself is covered, but the physician providing care is not. Patients only discover this gap by receiving a bill for the care provided by the out-of-network emergency physician. According to one study, 22% – more than one in five – of emergency department visits at an in-network facility involved out-of-network physicians. In McAllen, Texas, 89 percent received “surprise bills.” In other places, such as South Bend, Indiana, almost nobody received surprise bills. In 2014, Texas studied this problem, finding that among the three largest health insurers by market share in the state, between 41-68% of dollars billed at in-network facilities were billed as out-of-network emergency room physician services. In addition, between 21-59% of in-network hospitals had NO in-network emergency room physicians, meaning that for some insured patients in Texas, a visit to more than half of the emergency rooms in their network would likely result in a bill for out-of-network care. But before we start laying all of the blame at the feet of emergency physicians, emergency room departments are required by law to see and treat everybody in need, thanks to the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act, which guarantees access to emergency medical care, but not specifically requiring insurers to pay for that care. Insurers know this, thus making it difficult for emergency physicians to negotiate effectively with insurers. The concern is that without the option of “balance billing,” these physicians will be subjected to increasingly predatory pricing from insurance companies who will hold all of the leverage. But bankrupting patients cannot be the solution. That is unacceptable and should not be tolerated. Insurers point the finger at physicians and hospitals, while physicians point it right back at insurers. While there is not just one villain here who can take all of the blame, there is also a lack of heroes in this story. Out-of-network emergency department billing is not a problem that can be solved on its own, or by any one group within the health care financial system. This is the type of problem that requires policy. A recent New York Times article pointed to U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett of Austin who introduced legislation in 2015 to help address the issue but was met with indifference from his colleagues, despite Texas’ being one of the worst offending states. It is up to all of us to now replace that apathy with a distinct call to arms that catches the attention of our representatives. California has already passed a bipartisan bill to protect patients against surprise out-of-network medical bills. Patients who receive care from in-network facilities in that state would only have to pay in-network cost sharing. A few other states, such as Florida, have similar laws. Texas allows patients to participate in a mediation process to reduce balance bills by working with physicians and insurers, but the process is limited to certain types of bills and plan types, and the billed amount must exceed $500 per provider to be eligible. The system is underutilized and does not protect patients as well as it could. Texans cannot remain at risk of unexpectedly getting stuck with a surprise out-of-network physician bill after visiting an emergency department. This threat should now be considered an emergency.
11.16.2016	Inside U.S. Trade: TPP opponents tout deal's defeat, urge Trump to pick USTR in favor of new trade policy By Jenny Leonard Posted November 16, 2016 Trans-Pacific Partnership opponents this week publicly declared the deal dead and claimed they had the votes to bring it down even if it had come up in the lameduck session – though they did not rule out the possibility that Presidentelect Trump could take up the agreement in the future. A group of lawmakers, led at a Nov. 15 rally by Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D-CT),not only touted its work on TPP but also pledged to “keep up the pressure” on the new administration to take a different approach to negotiating free trade agreements. DeLauro – saying TPP was “on the ropes long before [Election Day]” but adding that “if it had been brought to a vote in the lameduck it would have failed” – said the coalition will remain united in its effort to deliver a 21st century approach to trade policy, which she said should include enforceable currency disciplines, enforceable environmental and labor standards, clear rules of origin and appropriate trade partners selected on the basis of their records of compliance. “Trade agreements should reflect the new era of U.S. trade policy with the input from civil society and policymakers and the elimination of fasttrack,” DeLauro said. “Implementing a new model will not be easy, but our next administration needs to do exactly that.” “PresidentelectTrump made strong comments about trade, but no one knows what he will actually do,” she added. “We're gonna hold him accountable. We're gonna watch closely to see who he chooses to lead the USTR. Will Wall Street have a voice or will the people have a voice?” But Ways & Means Committee member Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) while calling the rally TPP's “burial ceremony” in a time where “there hasn't been much to celebrate” held open the possibility that Trump could revive the deal in an altered form. “TPP in its current form is dead,” he said, “and the only question is will it come back in some zombie trade agreement to stalk us next year?” On the sidelines of the rally, Doggett told Inside U.S. Trade that because much about Trump's plans on trade policy is unknown, predicting what he will do on TPP and other trade deals is hard but he stressed the importance of who is picked to be the next U.S. Trade Representative. “It is very difficult to tell which way Presidentelect Trump is heading on any number of issues,” Doggett said. “I just think that in order to deliver anything on trade other than more broad comments of sympathy it is a matter of him having a trade ambassador who takes a new approach, who does clean house at USTR, brings in some new people, and secondly who is committed to opening this process significantly so that everything is not hidden.” Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) urged the presidentelect to follow through on his campaign promises for the U.S. working class, calling those voters' frustration with existing trade deals “the major issue” that ensured his success among that group. “We the American people will be watching: Presidentelect Trump had better listen to what the American people said,” DeFazio said. “This was a major, if not the major, issue in this campaign in my opinion that turned the working class toward Trump: their desperation. He's gonna have to deliver. He can't be business as usual.” DeLauro offered a similar sentiment, calling it an “open question” whether Trump's message resonated so well with the working class in key states because the Obama administration pushed so hard for TPP. “The administration's aggressive role in pushing TPP during this entire election cycle, with cabinet people all over the country, with the USTR everywhere, with all kinds of statements in any and all forums, I think it is an open question as to whether or not that allowed Donald Trump to have the issue that cost us the Rust Belt states,” DeLauro said. Public Citizen's Global Trade Watch Director Lori Wallach agreed with the idea that Trump's victory could be linked to the administration's efforts to pass TPP in the lameduck session, but claimed that Trump – despite his adamant opposition to the deal – was not the reason the agreement has been defeated. “The unremitting push by the Obama administration for the TPP right through this election helped to elect Donald Trump, but Trump has not derailed the TPP – people power united across borders did that,” Wallach said in a Nov. 15 statement. “Six years of relentless, strategic campaigning by an international movement of people from the TPP countries united across borders to fight against corporate power is why the TPP is all but dead.” Asked whether she is confident TPP will not be revived in a new administration as part of a renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement – which is how the Obama administration has often tried to sell the deal because it includes both Mexico and Canada – DeLauro said even with “tweaks” that might satisfy Trump, the deal would face opposition. “They may try to have that conversation,” she said, “but I believe that all sectors, the environmentalists as well, would just stand up and say no. No matter what kind of tweaking one can do, this is over.” Rep. Brad Sherman (D-CA), echoing DeLauro's sentiments, added that “the idea that we would enter into a free trade agreement with Vietnam as a mechanism for finetuning or renegotiating our trade deal with Canada and Mexico is just absurd.” “What we're promised with Vietnam is that we're gonna have free access to their markets,” he added. “Vietnam has no freedom, Vietnam has no markets. Their tariffs are money paid by stateowned enterprises.” Doggett told Inside U.S. Trade that a slightly altered TPP would not be sufficient to address Trump's problems with the deal. “I don't think that a mere tweak will solve the problems there,” Doggett said. “He didn't suggest 'let's just tweak it a little bit and we'll make it better.' No, he was declaring it to be such a bad deal and one of the few specifics he had was about currency manipulation.” “But if he wants to engage all of us in that discussion I do think it's the basis for some bipartisan action. But he's going to have to quell the urge of Speaker Ryan who sponsored the fasttrack proposal, and folks who don't care about these other issues, who measure success in trade only by the volume of commerce,” Doggett added. Food safety advocates joined lawmakers in touting TPP's defeat but made clear that while “the deal appears dead” it could be considered by the new Congress or the Trump administration. “We will remain vigilant to ensure that the corporate lobbyists that support the deal do not make one last try to pass it during the remainder of the lameduck congressional session or in the next Congress,” Food & Water Watch Executive Director Wenonah Hauter said in a Nov. 15 statement. “The lobbyists who are streaming into the Trump administration supported the TPP and the corporate trade model. We will reject the same corporate trade model masquerading as new trade policy under the next administration.” Asked whether trade policy in the next Congress and under the new administration would be a bipartisan effort, DeLauro said yes, but also made clear that the Democrats in the House “were never divided on this issue.” “We have 28 people who voted for fasttrack but that 160 [House Democrats who voted against it] never moved,” she said. As to how the coalition would address a potential revival of TPP under President Trump given his ties to establishment Republicans through his vice presidential pick, Mike Pence, and business leaders who might push for the agreement to be reconsidered, DeLauro touted the coalition's vigilance and persistence – and noted that its members have been opposed to the deal since negotiations began six years ago. “We are not going away I think that has been established,” DeLauro said, adding that the effort to defeat the agreement began in 2010. “Why do you think we're just gonna wash our hands and move to the sidelines? It's not going to happen.” “And none of us think that Wall Street is going away, none of us think that the Chamber of Commerce is going away,” Sherman said. “No, we're not going away.”
11.14.2016	U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett said this regarding Steve Bannon's appointment as senior advisor to the Trump administration: Trump’s “diversity” – He just announced his first appointments which stretch all the way across the spectrum from Reince Priebus, the insider who has chaired the Republican National Committee for the last 5 years, to Steve Bannon as chief strategist. Before joining the Trump campaign a few months ago, Bannon headed the alt-right media outlet, Breitbart News, known for misogynist, racist, and xenophobic postings. The Anti-Defamation League CEO wrote, “It is a sad day when a man who presided over the premier website of the ‘alt-right’ – a loose-knit group of white nationalists and unabashed anti-Semites and racists—is slated to be a senior staff member in the ‘people’s house.’” The Southern Poverty Law Center posted that “Bannon has a long history of bigotry. He has insinuated that African-Americans are ‘naturally aggressive and violent.’” If this is to be the “strategy” of the Trump regime, we are in for a long struggle that must strategically utilize every nonviolent opposition tool available.
11.09.2016	"Our constitutional democracy enshrines the peaceful transfer of power. We don't just respect that. We cherish it.” Secretary Clinton reminds us today of both this vital truth and that our Constitution “enshrines the rule of law; the principle we are all equal in rights and dignity; freedom of worship and expression. We respect and cherish these values, too, and we must defend them." - U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett
11.03.2016	By Alicia Mundy, Washington Monthly It’s hard to watch television or read a newspaper these days without seeing stories about outrageous prescription drug price increases. This past summer, the company Mylan was in the spotlight for hiking the price of its EpiPen, an injector containing cheap but life-saving allergy medicine, from $94 for a two-pack in 2007 to over $600 today. Last fall, Martin Shkreli, CEO of Turing Pharmaceuticals, became the face of greed when his company purchased the AIDS drug Daraprim and promptly raised its price from $13.50 to $750 per pill—an increase of some 5,000 percent. Prior to that, Valeant Pharmaceuticals drew widespread scorn for jacking up the prices of two heart medications, Nitropress and Isuprel, by 212 percent and 525 percent respectively. Meanwhile, Medicare, Medicaid, and private insurers were buckling under the $84,000 per-dosage-cycle price of Sovaldi, Gilead Sciences’ treatment for Hepatitis C, and of Medivation’s prostate cancer drug Xtandi, which costs $129,000 for an annual treatment. These are not isolated incidents. List prices for drugs in general rose 12 percent last year, on top of similar increases over the previous five years. That increase is helping to drive up health insurance premiums and patient deductibles. According to an August 2015 report by Kaiser Health News, 24 percent of Americans taking prescription drugs reported being unable to afford a prescription from their doctors in 2015 over the previous year. The only thing more depressing than these out-of-control drug prices is the seeming inability of politicians to do anything about the problem. President Barack Obama has called for, among other things, faster approvals of generic copies of expensive biologic drugs and new authority to drive down prices for Medicare Part B. His proposals have gone nowhere in the GOP-controlled Congress. This summer, Hillary Clinton released a more aggressive plan for statutory changes that would make drugs cheaper and cut some advertising tax breaks for the drug industry. Even Donald Trump said he would break with his own party and support changing the law to allow Medicare to bargain with the pharmaceutical industry over drug prices. Yet none of these proposals has even the slightest chance of being taken up by Congress during the lame-duck session, and the chances will be hardly better in the new Congress, given Big Pharma’s power over lawmakers in both parties. Indeed, legislation introduced in September by a bipartisan group of lawmakers that would merely require drug companies to give warning about upcoming price increases—an effort just to give incumbents up for reelection something they could tell voters they were doing—was widely seen as DOA. But what if the next president doesn’t need Congress’s approval in order to act? What if previous statutes have already given the executive branch the authority it needs to beat back extreme drug price increases? And what if the Obama administration, which otherwise has not been shy about using executive power aggressively—to battle climate change, to reform immigration, and to defend transgender rights, for example—simply hasn’t used that power to curb drug prices, even though it could? That’s exactly what a group of progressive Democratic lawmakers, including Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren and Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders, have been saying for months. The source of that authority, they say, comes from provisions in a thirty-six-year-old law, the Bayh-Dole Act, that empower the executive branch to get pharmaceutical companies to reduce prices on drugs invented with the help of federal research funds. “We already have leverage in the law to force down prices—why isn’t President Obama using it?” asks the group’s leader, Texas Representative Lloyd Doggett. According to a months-long investigation by the Washington Monthly—including interviews with a dozen current and former Obama administration officials as well as scores of outside experts—these progressive Democrats have a case. If they’re right, the next president could have leverage not only to bring down excessive drug prices, but also to reform the increasingly dysfunctional federally funded biomedical research and commercialization system that gives rise to those insane prices in the first place. Last September, as public outrage over price hikes by Valeant and Martin Shkreli was spiking, Doggett invited a few fellow Democratic representatives, including Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut, Jan Schakowsky of Illinois, and Peter Welch of Vermont, along with staffers, for a series of meetings in his Rayburn Building office. Doggett is a former Texas state supreme court judge with a bit of a laconic western drawl who represents a safe liberal district that includes Austin. He enjoys a reputation among his colleagues as a non-flashy legislative workhorse who fights hard behind the scenes for his causes. One of those causes is lowering drug costs; he has been pushing legislation to that end since he entered Congress in 1995. At one of these meetings in Doggett’s office, researchers from the Center for American Progress (CAP), a liberal think tank, gave the group an eye-opening presentation on the extent to which federal—meaning taxpayer—dollars support critical drug research. Government funding played a role in nearly half of the 478 drugs approved by the FDA between 1998 and 2005, according to one study, and almost two-thirds of the most important and cutting-edge ones. These more innovative drugs, such as the critical oncology medication Gleevec, not only originated through federal support but continue to receive it thanks to Medicare, Medicaid, and other government programs that subsidize their purchase. Taxpayers, in other words, are paying for these drugs on both the front and back ends, even as the prices drug companies charge escalate seemingly without end. The CAP researchers also explained how the Bayh-Dole Act—officially the Patent and Trademark Law Amendments Act of 1980—could be utilized to lower those prices. A complex piece of legislation that took four years to write and pass, Bayh-Dole was designed by its sponsors, Indiana Democratic Senator Birch Bayh and Republican Robert Dole of Kansas, to encourage the commercialization of federally sponsored research. At the time, much of that research was sitting on shelves in university and federal labs because companies could not get secure enough title to the discoveries to be willing to invest the extra dollars necessary to turn them into salable products. Bayh-Dole mandated that the labs and universities could patent their discoveries and sell the royalty rights to private-sector firms. The law was, by most accounts, a big success. Over the next two decades, U.S. universities increased their patent output tenfold and founded more than 2,200 companies to exploit those patents, thus creating 260,00 new jobs and contributing $40 billion to the economy (though some of this increase is probably due to the biomedical revolution, which gave university researchers tools such as gene splicing to more easily create patentable medical applications). Bayh-Dole also mandated, however, that the federal government retain its own rights to the patents, which it could exercise under certain conditions. If, for instance, a company failed to use a federally funded discovery to get a product to the market, the federal agency could “march in” and offer the rights to another company to commercialize and sell the drug to the public. Or it could offer “royalty-free rights” on any patent to companies that would manufacture products strictly for government use—say, a drug sold only to the military. Yet in the thirty-six-year history of Bayh-Dole, there had only been five attempts (petitions from patients, advocacy groups, or corporations) to get the government to invoke march-in or royalty-free rights—together referred to as “retained rights”—against a pharmaceutical company. All five petitions had been rejected by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), an agency of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The main reason for the NIH’S hesitation, Doggett and his team learned, is that the agency has powerful institutional reasons not to want to exercise its retained rights. The NIH’s main mission—the thing Congress funds it to do and holds it accountable for—is encouraging medical advances. It achieves this by partnering with university researchers and pharmaceutical companies. Anything that upsets these partnerships is seen within the agency as hampering its mission, and as a threat to its budget. “NIH won’t ever agree to exercise march-in or royalty-free rights, no matter the strength of the case,” says James Love of the think tank Knowledge Ecology International, who led three of the five failed NIH petitions and was involved in the other two. In briefings with Doggett and his team, Love suggested that the only way to get the NIH to use its power would be to convince higher-ups in the Obama administration to force it to do so. So that’s what the lawmakers decided to do. In early January, fifty-one House Democrats, including Doggett and his group, sent a letter to HHS Secretary Sylvia Mathews Burwell and NIH director (and Nobel laureate) Francis Collins, saying, “We respectfully urge you to use your existing statutory authority to respond to the soaring cost of pharmaceuticals.” Specifically, they asked the NIH and HHS to finally propose guidelines for triggering the use of march-in rights, saying, “We believe that just the announcement of reasonable guidelines in response to price gouging would positively influence pricing across the pharmaceutical industry.” “That’s the point,” says Doggett. “Just the threat” of exercising these rights, or even of reviewing the amount of U.S. government support that over the years has gone to the companies holding exclusive patents, would probably “cause the pharmaceutical companies to blink.” Like a lot of policy battles in Washington, the one over the government’s retained rights on patents to federally funded research revolves around contested interpretations of a few words in a long statute. The Bayh-Dole Act states that the federal government can exercise its retained rights only under certain conditions. The main one is if the company that holds the patent rights has failed to make the fruits of the discovery “available to the public on reasonable terms.” Another is if the agency that originally disbursed the research funds determines that exercising its retained rights “is necessary to alleviate health or safety needs” of the public. The fundamental legal dispute is whether, under Bayh-Dole, exorbitant drug prices constitute a violation of “reasonable terms” and/or a threat to “public health and safety.” It is fair to say that the vast majority of attorneys who know anything about Bayh-Dole have concluded that the answer is no: high drug prices are not one of the conditions that would trigger the government’s ability to exercise its retained rights. It is also fair to say that most of the attorneys who make this argument represent drug companies. This is the case even of the law’s cosponsors. In 2002, Birch Bayh and Bob Dole, by then retired from the Senate and working as lobbyists for law firms representing drug companies (Dole himself was starring in ads for Viagra), wrote a letter to the editor in the Washington Post. In it they stated that Bayh-Dole “did not intend that government set prices on resulting products” and that government could exercise its retained rights “only when the private industry collaborator has not successfully commercialized the invention as a product.” A few years earlier, Bayh had argued the opposite when he was representing a firm that would have benefited from the government’s exercise of royalty rights. Opposed to the industry’s position is a small group of lawyers, researchers, and scholars who have long argued that the government does have pricing rights under Bayh-Dole. They include public interest lawyers such as Love and Robert Weissman, the president of the advocacy group Public Citizen; law professors such as Michael Davis of Cleveland-Marshall College of Law and Rachel Sachs of Washington University in St. Louis; medical policy experts such as Peter Arno of the University of Massachusetts Amherst and Aaron Kesselheim and Jerome Avorn of Harvard Medical School; and the philanthropist and former pharmaceutical patent attorney Alfred Engelberg. These experts have their differences. The latter three, for instance, believe march-in rights apply only to drugs based on patents that all derive directly from government research. That’s a small portion of the drugs on the market, though many of those are the most pricey. (If a drug’s patent has expired, as was the case with Daraprim, Bayh-Dole no longer applies.) In general, however, these experts all agree that “reasonable terms” and “health and safety” can include price, for several reasons. For one, many U.S. laws other than Bayh-Dole use the phrase “reasonable terms,” and courts have typically defined that phrase as including price. Also, when the legislation was being considered, many lawmakers and witnesses at hearings raised the very issue of price, out of worry that granting private companies lengthy, exclusive patents on government-funded research—that is, monopolies—would lead them to jack up the prices. March-in and royalty-free rights were the provisions these lawmakers demanded in order to secure their votes for the bill. Finally, there’s the fact that the NIH, in its written rejections, has never explicitly stated that Bayh-Dole prohibits using pricing as a factor. Instead, the agency has come right up to the line—stating, for instance, that march-in rights are “not an appropriate means of controlling prices.” This, say advocates, suggests that the NIH knows that its own case is not legally ironclad. So, which side is right? The proponents of march-in rights power certainly have a reasonable case. But it’s impossible to say with certainty, because the question has never been litigated. The only way to know for sure would be for the government to actually test its powers. It could do so by proposing a regulation, or even just a regulatory guideline, based on those rights; evaluating the arguments that come back from the public and interested parties; and waiting to see how the courts ultimately decide any lawsuits that challenge those regulations or guidelines. The problem is that, for thirty-six years, the government has been too scared to try. In addition to parsing the language of the statute, the drug companies deploy a second argument against the government’s use of retained rights to regulate prices. It is they, not the government, who put up the lion’s share of R&D funding for new drugs, say the companies. So it would be unjust and confiscatory for the government to use its retained rights to lower prices. As a matter of pure law, advocates note, this is beside the point. Bayh-Dole does not set out any percentages or other metrics for what the government’s share of R&D on a drug must be before its retained rights kick in. “It doesn’t matter if the government grant was for millions of dollars,” James Love says, “or for a few thousand.” In any event, the government’s impact on R&D and the amount spent to support drug development is much higher than the drug industry likes to acknowledge and most voters understand. This is especially true of breakthrough drugs (of which there are far fewer coming online than in years past) as opposed to the “me too” variety— modest tweaks on existing treatments—that the drug industry has increasingly produced. A 2011 study published in the journal Health Affairs found that government-funded research contributed to most of the new medications that, because of their innovative nature, qualified for “priority review” by the Food and Drug Administration between 1998 and 2005. A 2014 study in the same journal found that the majority of the twenty-six most transformative drugs—those judged by medical experts both to be innovative and to have groundbreaking effects on patient care—developed between 1984 and 2009 were discovered with the help of federal research funding. The drug industry will on occasion grant that the most innovative drugs require federal research funding—usually when they’re lobbying Congress for more such funding. Still, they say, government’s share of the research and development costs behind any particular such drug is small compared to the drug company’s own R&D costs, which, the industry says, typically exceed $1 billion. Independent researchers, however, have challenged that $1 billion–plus figure. They note that it is derived from unverifiable industry data, that half is accounted for by federal tax breaks pharmaceutical companies receive, and that a substantial portion of the rest comes from dubiously counting such expenses as “cost of capital”—what companies theoretically would have earned investing in something else. The drug industry vigorously defends the figure. Whatever the merit of Big Pharma’s claim to be a big investor in drug innovation, that claim is less true every year. In the past decade, major drugmakers have cut R&D costs in order to slash expenses and maintain high returns to shareholders. Nine of the top ten drugmakers spend more on marketing than R&D. A McKinsey & Company report called even this reduced level of R&D spending “a luxury that investors no longer tolerate.” In general, the big drugmakers are leaving the innovation to small pharmaceutical and biotech firms, which originated 64 percent of the new drugs approved by the FDA last year, up from less than 50 percent a decade ago. Figuring out the pharmaceutical industry’s share of drug R&D costs is made even more difficult by the fact that the government doesn’t bother to tote up the overall value of all of its subsidies. Beyond research grants to academia, medical centers, and small start-up companies, Washington spends millions of dollars on the infrastructure that keeps the drug discovery process moving globally. The NIH helps many drug researchers in the earlier stages get through the maze of federal bureaucracy in order to advance a novel medicine. The NIH and the Food and Drug Administration work with drug developers to create frameworks for testing for safety and efficacy, in order for companies to be certain of the data they must collect and the standards they must meet for approval. The NIH strikes “cooperative research and development agreements” with commercial firms, sharing resources and work on projects that might ultimately lead to new medicines. Many modern medical devices and prosthetics marketed by major corporations start as experiments in Department of Veterans Affairs hospitals and laboratories. The VA and the Department of Defense have conducted large clinical trials in cardiology, diabetes, prostate cancer, and smoking cessation that help shape the direction of industry research in those areas. And universities and medical consortiums win government grants for disease “awareness” and “testing” programs, which all contribute to the ongoing market success of a drug invented to treat a certain condition. Add to this the multitude of tax breaks and seemingly endless extensions of patent exclusivity that government showers on drug companies, strengthening their monopolies. Most of this government largesse is not counted in the many (often industry-funded) studies of drugmakers’ R&D investment floating around Washington; government programs like Medicare that subsidize the purchase of the industry’s products are also rarely considered. “Industry always compares individual federal research grants to what they claim to be their overall cost—which they greatly exaggerate,” says a senior NIH official who didn’t want to be identified by name. “But we finance the whole system that basically keeps global drug development on track and launching successful drugs.” The industry defends high drug prices as necessary for companies to recoup the R&D costs of the many drugs they invest in that don’t ever make it onto the market—the “risk-adjusted price.” There may be some truth in this. But the same logic also applies to the government’s investment. For every federal research grant that leads to a patent sold to a drug company, there are hundreds of others that don’t (even if they extend the boundaries of scientific knowledge). Drug companies are beneficiaries of that winnowing-out process, too. The drug companies’ third argument is that any attempt by government to exercise its retained rights on a drug patent would wreak havoc on the whole pharmaceutical industry. Without the certainty of a patent term and end date, pharmaceutical companies would be reluctant to invest in new drugs coming out of universities and biotech start-ups. Moreover, even a whisper of such threats would spook the Wall Street banks and hedge funds that have become increasingly big investors in the pharmaceutical industry. It’s not just the drug companies who make this argument. You hear it from insiders at the NIH, even if they won’t say it on the record. You hear it from the Department of Defense, which also funds medical research. In a letter this summer opposing a march-in rights petition, the Defense Department mentioned the concerns of investors three times, saying, “NIH has consistently declined to exercise march-in authority because market dynamics could be affected for all products subject to the provisions of the Bayh-Dole Act.” You hear it from independent market researchers like Ira Loss at Washington Analysis. If the government were to use march-in rights to exercise pricing power, even once, “there’d be widespread panic,” predicts Loss. “It would really impact investment in pharma/bio, maybe even the overall medical sector.” Views like this are so widespread that it would be folly to ignore them. Nevertheless, there are good reasons to take them with a grain of salt. Similar warnings were voiced by the telecommunications industry during the long “net neutrality” debate over whether the Federal Communications Commission should apply the same strict regulations to cable broadband providers that it does to telephone companies. In 2015, the FCC ruled in favor of net neutrality. Since then, the telecoms have issued reports based on proprietary data that, indeed, broadband investment has declined. But the current FCC chairman, Tom Wheeler, citing public SEC data, has countered that there has been a 35 percent increase in investment in internet-specific businesses and sizable increases by large network companies like AT&T. In the case of drugs, as we’ve seen, pharmaceutical companies have already been cutting back their R&D investments. If Big Pharma’s profits can only be supported by greater and greater federal subsidies and monopoly rents that gouge the public, the industry is operating with an unsustainable business model—one that bears an alarming likeness to a real estate sector that, a decade ago, could only be propped up by predatory mortgages. The greater folly, says Robert Weissman of Public Citizen, would be to allow “us to be kept locked into the status quo, because of threats of a market collapse from pharma any time the government tries to control drug prices.” The letter that Lloyd Doggett and fifty other House members sent to the heads of HHS and the NIH in early January of this year landed at a propitious moment for advocates. Martin Shkreli had recently been indicted on securities fraud. The pharmaceutical behemoth Pfizer had just announced major price increases on 100 of its drugs. And the president was unveiling another in a flurry of new executive actions, this one narrowing the loophole that allowed guns to be sold privately—at gun shows, for instance—without licensing or background checks. It seemed at least plausible that he would soon take similar unilateral action on drug prices. That possibility appeared to become a near certainty later that month, when the New York Observer quoted New York Democratic Representative Charles Rangel saying that Obama would “use his executive powers, to deal with this thing [high drug prices] as soon as he gets back” from a trip to Detroit. Rangel’s statements put the pharmaceutical industry and its battalion of Washington lobbyists on red alert. According to one lobbyist, the biopharmaceutical lobby and Big Pharma’s official trade group were scrambling to answer angry calls from corporate drug company headquarters around the world. How had they missed this? Who could get information from the White House? The lobbyist said that pharmaceutical CEOs were particularly annoyed that Obama hadn’t warned them first. Didn’t the president owe them something for their having supported the passage of Obamacare? But Rangel’s story also surprised the White House. Over the next few days, the administration let it be known that there were no immediate plans for an executive order affecting drug prices. Still, Doggett and his allies had another card to play, one they thought would give the president the perfect opportunity to take executive action, were he so inclined. James Love’s organization, Knowledge Ecology International, along with another nonprofit, the Union for Affordable Cancer Treatment, had just filed a petition with the NIH and the Department of Defense, arguing that the U.S. government should use march-in rights on the prostate cancer drug Xtandi. There could hardly be a better example to trigger Bayh-Dole rights than Xtandi. The drug targets a widespread disease; according to the American Cancer Society, prostate cancer attacks one in seven American men, and killed 27,500 in 2015. It is also outrageously expensive—$129,000 for a year’s supply, about four times higher than the same drug sells for in Japan and Canada—putting it in the top ten most expensive drugs for Medicare. Best of all, from a legal point of view, all the patents on the drug came directly from government-funded research at UCLA; no pharma companies had added on patents, which would have weakened—at least in the eyes of some experts—the government’s ability to exercise its retained rights. In February, while Love’s petition was making its way through the system, HHS Secretary Sylvia Burwell came to Congress to testify before the Ways and Means Committee, on which Lloyd Doggett serves. The Texan used the opportunity to ask her pointedly if she could assure him and his fifty colleagues that their earlier letter requesting guidelines on march-in rights was “receiving thorough consideration.” Burwell answered carefully. “We are continuing to try and pursue every administrative option,” she said, adding, “We welcome your letter and your suggestion.” But just a couple of weeks later, she sent Doggett her official dismissal. While the administration had not ruled out using Bayh-Dole rights “when presented with a case where the statutory criteria are met,” Burwell wrote, after consulting with the NIH the administration had decided that “the statutory criteria are sufficiently clear and additional guidance is not needed.” Doggett said he wished she had just given him a straight “Hell, no!” to begin with. Love’s petition on Xtandi was still alive, though, so Doggett’s group decided to bring in the big guns. On March 28, they sent another letter to Burwell, this time including six Democratic senators—among them then presidential candidate Bernie Sanders (who had tried to clarify Bayh-Dole language protecting taxpayer rights in 2001) and Elizabeth Warren. The lawmakers weren’t just requesting general guidelines. They wanted to hear what the NIH had to say about Xtandi. “We do not think that charging U.S. residents more than anyone else in the world meets the obligation to make the invention available to U.S. residents on reasonable terms,” they said. They asked HHS to review the facts and issues in the Xtandi case in a public hearing, not behind closed doors. Burwell rebuffed that request, too, writing on June 7 that “the NIH believes [the current] process allows the agency to collect sufficient information to consider the [Xtandi] petition without a public hearing.” The NIH formally rejected Love’s petition two weeks later. The financial press trumpeted the decision as “good news” for Astellas and Medivation, the two firms that share the blockbuster drug’s profits. And indeed it was. In August, Pfizer Inc. announced it was buying Medivation for $14 billion, nearly double what the company had been worth six months earlier. This was a pretty good return for a drug that would never have existed without $31.5 million in NIH grants. Why did the Obama administration refuse to exercise—or even hint at exercising—its power under Bayh-Dole to bring down excessively high drug prices? A White House spokesperson would only say that the president “deferred to HHS,” which is more a statement of the obvious than an answer. One possibility is that administration lawyers looked at the statute, read all the relevant pro and con arguments, and came to the conclusion that Bayh-Dole does not, in fact, give government that power. This seems unlikely, though: Sylvia Burwell’s February letter certainly stops short of saying that. Another possibility is that the administration had political reasons not to want to cross Big Pharma. To be sure, the White House did deals with the industry to pass Obamacare. But with that law secured, the need for the president to play nice with the industry significantly lessened. In fact, taking on the pharmaceutical industry would have been excellent politics in an election year, especially with the Democratic base. Moreover, Obama hasn’t been shy about signing executive orders that have infuriated other powerful interests, such as the energy industry and the National Rifle Association. A third possibility, and a plausible one, is that Obama was briefed on retained rights, concluded that he might indeed have the power to use them to lower drug prices, but then chose not to do so, out of fear of spooking the markets and putting the economy at risk in an election year. A final possibility—one that fits the known facts and may be familiar to anyone who’s served in government—has to do with timing. The issue of high drug prices, though long simmering, didn’t reach a political boiling point until last year. By then, many of the long-serving White House officials who might have been most able to see the bubbling crisis as an opportunity to take action—those with policy chops, knowledge of the bureaucracy, and close relationships with the president—were cycling out. And as happens in any administration, those who have taken their place are younger, more inexperienced staffers with less inclination, and less of a mandate, to take risks. It’s entirely possible that none of them even raised the idea of exercising march-in rights with the president. “I know Barack Obama very well,” says a former senior Obama White House official. “When he said he wanted to do something about high drug prices, I believe him.” This official also believes that the executive branch probably does have the power to use Bayh-Dole to bring down drug prices, and should have at least tried to exercise it by proposing regulations or guidelines. “My guess is [his current staff] told him there’s nothing he can do unilaterally.” Evidence for that view is that the president never publicly voiced support for march-in rights, as he did for net neutrality. On January 20, 2017, a new president will enter the White House, along with a fresh—and, one hopes, capable—White House staff. The new administration will then begin a months-long dance with Congress to win approval of its agency nominees and to build support for its agenda. One item near the top of that list should be high drug prices. The administration’s need to woo lawmakers will bring with it a temptation to forswear any intention to act unilaterally on that issue. It should resist that temptation, however. Long experience shows that Congress is extremely unlikely to take any meaningful steps toward reeling in drug prices. The clout of the pharmaceutical industry and the fear of upsetting Wall Street and the markets are simply too strong. In such an environment, a president who wants to get something done needs leverage. The threat to exercise the government’s retained rights under Bayh-Dole would do the trick. And some powerful lawmakers would like a president to take that step. “March-in rights provide a powerful tool to improve access to federally funded medicines, but that tool has lain dormant for decades, even while drug prices soar out of reach for millions of Americans,” Elizabeth Warren told the Washington Monthly. “While Congress needs to do more,” she added, the executive branch “needs to step up.” There are other statutory powers the next president could draw on. One is the authority of the Medicine Equity and Drug Safety Act of 2000 to allow the re-importation of lower-priced drugs from countries like Canada. (The Canadian drugmaker Biolyse Pharma has already offered to sell a generic version of Xtandi to the U.S. government at a roughly 90 percent discount.) Another isa section of the United States Code that allows government agencies to buy generic versions of drugs at steep discounts. In 2001, during the anthrax scare, then HHS Secretary Tommy Thompson used the threat of this power to force drugmaker Bayer AG to cut the price of its anti-anthrax medication Cipro in half. By threatening to invoke Bayh-Dole and other existing powers broadly, the next president could get price reductions on a range of outrageously expensive medications. But perhaps even more importantly, the threat may be the only way to force the drug companies and lawmakers in both parties to sit down with the administration and hammer out a broader array of reforms. Bayh-Dole was in many ways an inspired piece of legislation, giving rise to a biomedical and commercial research system that has produced some miracles. But in the intervening thirty-six years, that system has grown increasingly dysfunctional, predatory, and dependent on public largesse. Fortunately, the legislation that created the system provides the tools we need to reform it.
11.03.2016	By Edmond Ortiz Posted November 2, 2016 The City of San Antonio held its first Sustainability Summit in 2015 to collect public input for the then-developing SA Tomorrow Sustainability Plan. On Tuesday night, more than 600 people gathered for the second annual Sustainability Summit to learn about how individuals and businesses can take those ambitious ideas and goals and turn them into action. With more than 1 million people expected to move to San Antonio and the region by 2040, Mayor Ivy Taylor told the crowd at the Henry B. González Convention Center that sustainability is a key part in long-term planning. “This idea of sustainability can’t just be about talking,” she said, “we have to turn it into action.” Implementing the SA Tomorrow plan will rely on promoting and incentivizing green-building infrastructure, efficient food systems, and sustainable transportation, Taylor said. Everyone can contribute to the greater effort of reducing unfavorable impacts on the environment, she added. For example, Taylor encouraged citizens to make their homes more inviting to Monarch butterflies, which fly thousands of miles each year from Canada to Mexico, passing through San Antonio on their way. Last December, Taylor signed the Mayor’s Monarch Pledge, making San Antonio the nation’s first Monarch Champion City. Taylor admitted that she has not yet been able to make a butterfly garden in her yard, but she is setting up a pocket pollinator area on her property, where caterpillars can feed on milkweed and nectar after they have turned into butterflies. “That sounds pretty easy, doesn’t it?” she said. “Whatever action that you want to take, we need each and every one to do their part to create a sustainable San Antonio now and in the future.” Technology-Assisted Water and Energy Management During the “rapid fire talks” several speakers said an increasing number of mobile apps offer potential to make life easier when it comes to things such as remote-controlling energy use or irrigation systems, or planning bus trips and seeking rideshare services. CPS Energy representatives talked about the utility’s energy saver platform, which offers various ways residential and commercial customers can save money and reduce energy usage. With the My Thermostat Rewards program, CPS Energy customers can receive a free, installed programmable thermostat or buy their own qualified WiFi model, install it, and get credit from the utility. Using the Total Connect Comfort App, residents can remotely monitor and adjust their home’s temperature. Cory Kuchinsky, CPS Energy’s director of enterprise risk management and solutions, outlined the utility’s Smart Grid initiative. The effort involves the ongoing rollout of a total of 740,000 smart meters citywide by 2018. The fully upgraded grid will enable automated, two-way communication between the utility and customers. CPS Energy officials have said the smart grid, where customers can opt out, would increase service and efficiency, reduce costs and emissions, and better support the integration of renewable sources. San Antonio Water System (SAWS) continues to promote ways to reduce water consumption via conservation and technology. The SAWS board this week rejected year-round stage one watering restrictions in favor of voluntary conservation and public education. Karen Guz, the utility’s conservation director, highlighted some ways people can make their home or business more water efficient. These include ongoing incentives for installing high-efficiency toilets, and for high-efficiency commercial irrigation systems. But Guz cautioned summit attendees against thinking such devices and strategies are completely reliable. Like most anything else, Guz said, systems will deteriorate and need maintenance, so it’s important for people to do their research and find a system that works for them before investing in the device or program. “Efficient and automated technology doesn’t always work,” Guz emphasized. Mark Peterson, conservation project coordinator for SAWS, said the number of mobile apps and controllers for home and commercial irrigation is rising, but each potential customer should research the promises made by these app developers and distributors, and the technology behind them. For example, some controllers and apps are developed with meteorological and geographic assumptions made mainly by West Coast programmers and by agronomists. Such assumptions cannot be applied to the weather and land conditions that Texans face year-round, he added. “Do your homework,” added Adolph Garcia, conservation consultant with SAWS. There are also plenty of low-tech water conservation and efficiency solutions. Guz said SAWS is promoting a way to purchase a rain barrel at a discounted price through Dec. 9. Food Production Lisa Cervantes, who has presided over the Students for Environmental Awareness group at San Antonio College, talked about how the William B. Sinkin EcoCentro facility educates and advocates on behalf of sustainability. EcoCentro, which also acts as a community center, was named after one of the city’s biggest promoters of solar power and other renewable energies. Sinkin died in 2014. One of the topics that EcoCentro promotes, Cervantes said, is how people can reduce food waste. Americans toss 37 million tons, or $165 billion, of food annually, she said. That’s food that could be redistributed toward composting or the fight to end hunger. Cervantes noted that disposed food is the biggest waste in a landfill, and decomposed food makes up 18% of methane released into the air. “When we waste food, it has far-reaching impacts on the climate, resource conservation and food security,” Cervantes said. Texas is the second hungriest, or food insecure, state in the U.S., Cervantes said, and children make up 36% of the San Antonio Food Bank’s total clientele. Cervantes, who plans to earn a degree in environmental public policy, offered two proposals to help address this issue. One is making a food recovery sector of the City’s solid waste collection department. Another is to expand composting opportunities for food service companies, from restaurants to manufacturers and distributors. “By increasing opportunities for composting, we could reduce the food going to landfills,” she added. Mitch Hagney, CEO of LocalSprout, talked about how his company helps craft sustainable farming and food production opportunities in an urban space, thus reducing the distance food has to travel to get to restaurants and customers. He is developing a 16,000-sq. ft. Eastside warehouse into a food hub and creating a co-working and co-production space for partner organizations, businesses, and agencies. Chris Babis of the Green Space Alliance of South Texas (GSAST) called for a comprehensive food systems approach, filled with partnerships and innovation, to shore up a community’s resiliency. Because of the complexity of contemporary food systems, existing challenges affect people’s daily lives, public health, economies, and food security, Babis said. Babis is overseeing the development of a new program for GSAST. It will concentrate on land and water conservation, urban farm production, and sustainable landscapes. “It gives GSA (the ability) to capacity-build, partner with new social enterprises or to be engaged with the community in ways that could not happen 10 years ago,” he added. Light Pollution Too much artificial light can affect energy bills, public safety, and health, according to Cindy Luongo Cassidy, owner of Green Earth Lighting. She represented the International Dark Sky Association at the summit. Very bright exterior lighting can cause glare that impairs night vision. Spread across growing human communities, such lighting can disrupt feeding, hunting, and navigational and reproductive systems and rhythms of the natural world, she added. Cassidy outlined several ways to reduce light pollution, the easiest of which is to aim lights downward instead of up or horizontal. Makeshift shields can also be crafted to direct light away from the night sky. An empty can of pineapple juice can work, she said: Cut out the lid, drill a hole in the other side, paint (if desired), and run the bulb through. These and other methods can help protect the “heritage of the night sky,” safeguard public health, save people money on energy usage, and help people be good neighbors overall, she added. Transportation Other speakers addressed efficient transportation in a growing city. Cristian Sandoval, founder and executive director of Earn-A-Bike Co-op, described how his volunteer-driven nonprofit is creating equitable access to cycling by providing affordable bicycle usage and maintenance. “What a bike does is allow you to get out and feel things, connect with others, and get healthy,” Sandoval said. Earn-A-Bike is working with ArtPace and the City’s Office of Sustainability to develop ARTBikeSA. Sandoval said details on ARTBikeSA, an initiative blending creativity, art, health, and sustainability, will be revealed on Dec. 1. Hannah Santiago, project manager for VIA Metropolitan Transit, said VIA seeks to provide more public mass transportation options for San Antonio’s growing population. A more efficient mass transit system will contribute to the local quality of life, she said. “VIA wants to use transit as a catalyst to create more great places in San Antonio,” Santiago added. In order to encourage use of mass transit even on one particular day, VIA will give free Election Day rides to local polling sites for anyone with their voter registration card. Sustainability Awards Earlier in the evening, Anita Ledbetter, executive director of Build San Antonio Green, and U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) announced the winners of this year’s Sustainability Awards. “We know of the importance of all forms of renewable energy, but the most important energy is in this room, the human resources committed to doing something about this,” Doggett said. Each award honors an example of a green-building technique or a commitment to promoting sustainability: Single-family home project – 207 W. Norwood Court Commercial – Centro Plaza at VIA Villa transit station William B. Sinkin Solar Award – Alamo Heights Independent School District, which has used more than 3 million kilowatt hours of solar energy Organizational sustainability practitioner – LPA, a sustainable design architectural firm Individual sustainability practitioner – Larry Clark of the firm Bender Wells Clark Design; Clark worked on site design for Centro Plaza Organizational practitioner in outreach and education – Roy Schauffele Sustainable lifestyle – The Renewable Republic Awards for exemplary sustainable programs: EcoCentro The Renewable Republic San Antonio Housing Authority Earn-A-Bike Co-op
11.03.2016	By Bekah McNeel Posted November 2, 2016 7:23pm National and local leaders gathered on Wednesday morning to celebrate the opening of Alamo Colleges’ Eastside Education and Training Center (EETC). The opening of the center represents years of effort and what Mayor Ivy Taylor called a “milestone” of collective impact on the Eastside. “I really believe this is going to be a catalyst,” Taylor said. EETC – pronounced like “Etsy” – will be located in the former Pfeiffer Academy Elementary School at 4551 Dietrich Rd. The new center will be a one-stop shop for community members to access job training, certification pathways, and degree completion. The 50,000 sq. ft. facility will be directed by Alamo College’s Belkiss Rodriguez. Child care and case management will be provided through the center’s myriad of partners including Goodwill and Communities in Schools, among others. “I heard the list of partners involved, and it’s mind-blowing,” Alamo College board member Denver McClendon said. McClendon praised the collective impact initiative, but noted “how many egos had to be set aside to get something done.” This is the second community-based center in the Alamo Colleges district. The first center, the Westside Education and Training Center (WETC) has been in operation for 10 years. In that time it has helped more than 1,200 members of the Westside community connect to the training and job opportunities they need for a brighter future. “This is not our first dance,” McClendon said. The district plans to open similar centers on the Southside and Northside. The idea behind the centers is to bring education to communities where access presents a significant hurdle to employment and education. “Being deep in the communities we serve is so critical for access,” Alamo Colleges Chancellor Bruce Leslie said. EETC will be within the Eastside Promise Zone. Councilman Alan Warrick (D2) highlighted the center’s role in fulfilling the “promise” of the Promise Zone: With the increased access to education will come increase access to the jobs that follow. Accenture will partner with the center with the specific focus of decreasing youth unemployment and increasing the connection to the growing information technologies sector. Currently the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates that there are 2.6 million unemployed people ages 16-24 in the country. Accenture projects that in 2018, 2.4 million tech jobs will go unfilled due to lack of qualified applicants. Accenture has worked with Holmes High School, KIPP University Prep, and Joint Base San Antonio to prepare the workforce to fill those jobs. “Many of the people we have hired do not have a four-year degree,”Accenture managing director Ali Bokhari said. “Many of the people we have hired do not have a background in tech.” What their hires do have, Bokhari explained, is the attitude, altitude, and passion for technology. Community resources like EETC help them achieve the qualifications they need to put that passion to work in a field with opportunity for advancement. “We are committed to San Antonio,” Bokhari said. U.S. Rep Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) commended the efforts for their interruption of the poverty cycle. He pledged his support to seeing the “dollars continue to flow” to the center as a pathway to the middle class for Eastside parents and their children. Many times when students grow up around chronic unemployment, the skills they learn have less to do with gaining and keeping a job, and more to do with survival along the margins. Parents who find themselves perpetuating that cycle often want better for their children. “Many of these parents want to do that, but there are barriers in their way,” Doggett said. The change that starts at home is a major theme for Eastside residents. The City invested $45 million in 2012 bond monies, with $48 million more potentially on the way with the 2017 bond, said Assistant City Manager Lori Houston. This is in addition to private investment as well. Still, historically disenfranchised groups do not always see the benefits in their own lives. “If nothing changes for people in their household, they will say nothing has changed,” Mayor Taylor said. The U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA) invested $1.5 million in the center, formerly Pfeiffer Elementary School, which closed its doors in 2014. That same year, the EDA made a $500,000 grant to San Antonio for Growth on the Eastside (SAGE) to identify top priorities for economic growth in the area. SAGE pinpointed workforce development as the greatest need in the community. Now the doors of the former elementary school will re-open to the community in hopes of educating the workforce of tomorrow. The EDA made its $1.5 million grant to the Alamo Colleges in partnership with the City of San Antonio and San Antonio ISD. EDA Austin Regional Office Director Jorge Ayala expressed his pleasure at being one of the many partners, but acknowledged that the real work was just beginning. “The hard work begins in your community,” Ayala said.
11.02.2016	By Bekah McNeel Posted November 2, 2016 1:00am The Eastside Dreamers Academy does more than just talk about dreams. It makes them come true. For at least one “Dreamer,” a life-long wish to visit the nation’s capital will be granted on Nov. 14-16 when she and nine other Dreamers head to Washington, D.C. on a trip made possible by the Eastside Dreamers Academy and the San Antonio Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. Mildred Ray is one of the Eastside Dreamers Academy’s “Rockstar Dreamers.” She went through the program herself, and was so inspired that she became a mentor. When it came time to select something “epic and meaningful” for those who had excelled in the program over the summer, the staff immediately thought of Ray and her dream of visiting Washington, D.C. Winslow Swart, chief inspiration officer at One Million Dreams, occasionally gets caught up in the magic experienced by the Dreamers as they see opportunities become reality. Then he remembers that those dreams are his business. “Oh yeah … that’s what we do,” Swart said. He reminds himself and the Dreamers that what appears to be luck is often the result of hard work, faithfulness, and ingenuity. “(Ray) didn’t get lucky,” Swart said. “She was there almost every minute of every day this summer there with us and the kids. She worked hard.” The Dreamers spent the summer expanding their horizons on a local level. Visits to Rackspace, the San Antonio Zoo, and the Toyota Plant demonstrated the opportunities and learning resources in their own backyard. Many of the Dreamers, kids from zip codes with high concentrations of poverty, have spent their lives in a city within a city. While the San Antonio Zoo might seem like a citywide attraction, many children never get the opportunity to go. Rackspace may be a household name for many, but Swart said some of the Dreamers had never even heard of the tech giant. After slowly stretching their world, Swart and his team of mentors wanted to do something that would blow it wide open. A trip to Washington, D.C. fit the bill. One of the main goals of the Eastside Dreamers Academy is empowerment. Students are mentored and challenged to look at their community and figure out what could be better, and then to pursue that change. Along the way, their mentors help them figure out how their own passions align with the good of the community. They learn not only to work toward their own dreams, but to speak up for themselves and their community as well. “They can shift the locus of control … by finding their voice,” Swart said. Washington, D.C. represents the ultimate frontier of civic engagement and empowerment. Through the efforts of One Million Dreams Co-founder Alberto Altamirano, the Dreamers will get a special tour of the White House, where they will get to explore beyond the ordinary tours, and hopefully meet the president. “I’m fairly certain someone will mention this to the president and it will be interesting to him,” Swart said. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) will be waiting at the Capitol to greet them. The students also will tour various Smithsonian museums, though the African American History Museum is fully booked for months in advance. Swart is hoping they can find a way to make a visit happen. Conversing with senators, members of congress, and other decision makers will give the students on the trip something to look back on when they face challenges down the road. They’ll be empowered by the memories of speaking with some of the most powerful people in the world. “Some of it, they will get it now,” Swart said. “Some of it, they will get it later.” Swart hopes that students will see Washington, D.C. as an aspirational destination. In addition to the civics lesson, he hopes that they will feel a little star struck, in the sense that they are meeting their heroes. While the San Antonio Spurs and certain celebrities make fine role models, Swart wants the Dreamers to pay as close attention to lawmakers and leaders as they do to the Spurs’ starting lineup. The elected leader who has made the biggest difference in their lives so far is the councilman who will be with them, Swart said. Councilman Alan Warrick (D2) will accompany the group and help them make local connections. Students who want the Oval office or a seat in the Capitol have to understand the path to get there, and the service they have to render along the way. Warrick will be there to remind the Dreamers of the many ways they can serve their community in an even more immediate way. Swart and Altamirano have big dreams themselves. They want to bring President Obama to the Martin Luther King March, or perhaps bring Oprah Winfrey to a community event. They want to do big things that show the magnitude of what is happening in San Antonio and the national attention it deserves. The Eastside Dreamers Academy’s funding was recently renewed, so its leaders will be able to work with the summer cohort through the school year. They have gained permission to seek matching grants, and plan to welcome a new summer cohort twice the size of the first.
10.20.2016	La Prensita: SAHA unveils enhanced mixed-income housing on the East Side By Christina Acosta Posted October 19, 2016 The East Side of San Antonio continues to provide the necessary resources needed for the community to improve, including one major step to create affordable housing. On Friday morning, the San Antonio Housing Authority (SAHA), along with U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Julián Castro and The City celebrated the grand opening of the first phase of the East Meadows Apartments, a historic community-wide revitalization project enhancing the East Side of San Antonio with a sustainable mixed-income neighborhood. With only 35 percent construction left for completion, the restored apartment complex contains 215 housing units as well as a garden, business center, community room, central park, picnic areas, playground, swimming pool, fitness center and social services for adults and children. The East Meadows Apartments will have a residence fitted for all income, whether it is a one, two or three bedroom garden apartment or a two and three bedroom townhome. East Meadows is located on what was once the site of Wheatley Courts, one of the oldest public housing developments in San Antonio demolished to make room for transformed housing. “This is a testament of what America can do, and this is also the testament to the leadership we have in San Antonio. I think that the federal government knows that we do have good leaders [referring to Secretary Castro],” expounded SAHA Board of Commissioners Chairman Morris A. Stribling, DPM. “As commissioners, we have the responsibility to make important decisions…We could not do this on our own…and I could not be prouder of the incredible team of SAHA staff.” The redevelopment is part of a three-part initiative funded through the HUD Choice Neighborhoods Initiative (CNI) Implementation Grant. In 2011, SAHA received a planning grant from HUD for $250,000 to develop the transformation step to revitalize The Wheatley Courts. Secretary Castro could not be more proud to see the funds going towards improving his hometown and giving all families the opportunity to live more comfortably. “San Antonio continues to do well economically, compared to other places. This community is resilient; it has a diversified economy and continues to grow in terms of the number of people. However, with the continued growth, there are more pointed challenges,” stated Secretary Castro. “HUD, SAHA and the local government is going to give the community a great quality of life.” East Meadows Phase I will also include a 4,200-sqaure foot BiblioTech Digital Library operated by Bexar County that is scheduled to be opened by the summer of 2017. Phase II of the East Meadows Apartments plans to construct 80 senior units this fall. Construction of Phase III will begin in summer 2017 and is expected to be completed in October of 2018.
10.17.2016	I joined Paul Scott and the great staff of AIDS Services of Austin at their annual AIDS Walk Austin I attend this walk every year firmly believing that with our many small steps, we can make great strides. We walk to support our brothers, sisters, friends and neighbors who are living with HIV or AIDS. We lift our feet to lift their hearts.
10.17.2016	By Isis Romero Posted October 7, 2016 SAN ANTONIO - U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett on Friday criticized the Federal Aviation Administration for refusing his request to increase oversight of the hot air balloon industry. "Many lives are in danger every day," Doggett, a Democrat, said in response to the FAA's decision. Doggett, whose congressional district includes the part of rural Caldwell County near Lockhart where 16 people died in a balloon crash on July 30, pointed out that the FAA continues to ignore a National Transportation Safety Board recommendation from early 2014 that called on the federal agency to increase balloon regulations. The NTSB made a follow-up request to the FAA to reconsider the recommendation in March, four months before the fatal crash. July's accident was the worst hot air balloon crash in U.S. history. "The safety experts said, 'FAA, if you don't act, people will die.' And as a result, we lost six wonderful people from the San Antonio area and a total of 15 and the operator," Doggett said. In a letter sent to Doggett last week, FAA administrator Michael Huerta said the agency will wait for the NTSB to finish its full investigation of the Lockhart crash before possibly introducing new safety recommendations. The investigation could take another 16 months to be completed. Among Doggett's recommendations are requirements for hot air balloon pilots to begin filing flight manifests. Doggett said investigators had difficulty identifying victims in the July crash because no official list of passengers existed. He said balloon pilots need to be held to a higher standard. Skip Nichols, a pilot, was able to get a hot air balloon license despite multiple DWI convictions and a history of substance abuse. Had Nichols been an aircraft or helicopter pilot, he would have had to disclose the arrests on his FAA medical application. Doggett said balloons should be required to maintain an airworthiness certificate and carry a higher insurance policy. He revealed Friday that the balloon in July's crash was covered by a $1 million insurance policy, which the congressman said does not begin to compensate the families of the passengers who were killed.
10.12.2016	Great evening coming together with friends to celebrate and commemorate the great Henry B. Gonzalez at his alma matter – St. Mary’s Law School. I joined Charlie Gonzalez and his wife Linda, Frank Gonzalez and his wife Lissi, and others including the dean of St. Mary’s Law, Stephen Sheppard to honor Henry’s legacy.
09.30.2016	By U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett Posted Sunday September 25, 2016 After the 1929 stock market crash and bank failures, the Great Depression left many, including millions of older Americans, penniless. Out of that concern, President Roosevelt led efforts to establish Social Security, which last month celebrated its 81st birthday. In those eight plus decades, Social Security has never been a day late or a dollar short. This most successful and essential federal initiative provides modest retirement, disability, and survivor benefits to nearly 60 million Americans, including 42.5 million retirees and more than 9 million veterans, who are receiving over $73 million of their earned benefits each month. Stable retirement, like a solid home, must be built on a strong foundation. If Wall Street banks undermine your private retirement or misfortune strikes, Social Security will still be there as a backstop. For many, it is what puts food in the fridge and keeps the lights on, week after week. This federally-guaranteed source of income provides 90% or more of the income for 1 in 3 seniors overall and about half of unmarried seniors. This is especially important to women, who live longer than men after decades of being paid less on average than men. And Social Security will continue to be vital, especially to the majority of workers, who have no private pension coverage, and more than a third, who have no savings set aside specifically for retirement. Yet the benefits of Social Security are not limited to retirement. It is the sole source of life insurance for many of the more than 4 million children who receive benefits each month because one or both of their parents have died or become disabled. It is also the primary source of disability insurance, ensuring that when a loved one becomes too disabled to work, some support will be available. Social Security is our most effective anti-poverty program, raising 21 million Americans, including 14.5 million seniors, out of poverty. In addition, it is an economic driver. The National Committee to Preserve Social Security & Medicare estimates that in 2014, Social Security contributed $1.6 trillion nationally and about $107.7 billion in Texas to the economy in the form of additional spending and other economic activity. Despite these benefits, the drive to dismantle Social Security remains a real threat, against which I have consistently worked. While Social Security receives ample revenue to pay all promised benefits through 2034, we should work to extend its solvency. Some see privatization as an option, a tantalizing prize for a host of Wall Street financial interests. But privatizing will only reduce solvency and endanger benefits for millions of current beneficiaries. My thanks to AARP for recently honoring me with its “AARP Legislative Champion Award.” The work that AARP does to protect Social Security and Medicare is extremely important. Social Security and Medicare represent a commitment that we make to each other, knowing that, due to no fault of our own, through disability, injury or old age, we may need help to enjoy the dignity we have earned by a lifetime of work and to access health care. I am committed to continuing to defend this life-saving, irreplaceable, social insurance. We need to strengthen and improve retirement security, not promote insecurity by privatizing it.
09.26.2016	ACP member shares the physician's perspective at legislative forum in Texas Dr. Fred Campbell has spent way too much time trying to convince patients to take his advice about the potential benefits and risks of certain prescription medications. As he described it, patients often come in armed with information from direct-to-consumer drug advertising and take this as the Holy Grail. "Direct-to-consumer advertising interferes with the physician-patient relationship," he said. "Patients will never believe me over these commercials." That's one of the many reasons that Campbell, an internist in private practice in San Antonio, Texas, joined forces with U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) at a forum the congressman sponsored in August on prescription drug pricing and other pharmaceutical concerns. The overarching goal of the forum was to foster discussion and put a face on these issues. "It was a wonderful forum," Campbell said. "We filled an assembly hall with more than 200 people, and it lasted two hours on a Saturday morning." Other legislators, patients, patient advocates and insurance company representatives attended the forum and swapped stories. For instance, Campbell shared the story of a patient who'd had a coronary artery stent implanted but, a year later, was reluctant to stop Plavix (clopidogrel) because she was confused by a "direct to patient" ad warning her not to. "I had to convince her of the evidence-based risk of future Plavix use and unproven benefit, at some length, due to seemingly contradictory statements from the ad," Campbell said. Such instances, more typical than rare, have made him favor a ban on direct-to-consumer drug ads, Campbell said. The American College of Physicians supports restrictions on this type of advertising, describing it as "an inappropriate practice." ACP policy says that, "lacking a legislative ban on direct-to-consumer advertising, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration should play a strong role in ensuring the accuracy and clarity of information provided to the public through direct-to-consumer advertising." On the issue of prescription drug pricing, Doggett said that "physician voices are especially important regarding prescription price gouging." "With a long history of both effective health care advocacy and professional service, Dr. Fred Campbell described to our Forum the enormous impact of spiraling pharmaceutical prices upon patients and physicians," the congressman said. "I commend Dr. Campbell and ACP for making access to reasonably priced medications a key part of their legislative agenda." "Government-approved monopolies are demanding prices that far exceed what is required to afford a substantial profit plus the costs of drug research and development," Doggett said. "The EpiPen is only the most recent of many outrageous examples." The price for the emergency auto-injector used by people with allergies rose from less than $100 to more than $600 in roughly the past decade. Forum participants urged the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to negotiate drug prices directly. Other issues broached at the forum included calls against evergreening of patent extensions, pay-for-delay deals in which a pharmaceutical company pays a generic producer to delay market entry of a lower-priced competing product, single-sourced generics and adverse formulary practices. "Single-sourced generics that are older can sometimes fall into a situation where they will only be produced by one company for the purposes of profit," Campbell said. Campbell said he also called for more transparency in research. "If a drug extends life by days, weeks or months, we need to know about associated side effects, such as vomiting or inability to walk," he said. "Quality of life is as important as quantity." Doggett said he would be encouraging his legislative colleagues to hold similar forums in their districts. To ACP members, he said he would "welcome messages from physicians across the country (email Lloyd.Doggett@mail.house.gov) and hopes these will also be shared with your local member of Congress." For his part, Campbell sees much work yet to be done. "There are ongoing advocacy efforts at the state and federal level," he said, "and we will continue to work hard at the grassroots level."
09.21.2016	By Jamie Lovegrove Posted September 21, 2016 WASHINGTON — Members of a congressional oversight committee took turns Wednesday grilling the leader of the drug company responsible for the skyrocketing price of lifesaving EpiPens. In a combative hearing on Capitol Hill, drugmaker Mylan's chief executive Heather Bresch faced a barrage of criticism from lawmakers. She contended that broader pharmaceutical forces impact the price, and that the company does not make significant profits after investing on product improvements and other expenses. "This doesn't make any sense," said Rep. Jason Chaffetz, a Utah Republican and the chairman of the committee, after Bresch attempted to explain the price hikes. "This is why we don't believe you." Mylan came under fire last month for the rising price of the epinephrine auto-injectors, which are used to treat life-threatening allergic reactions. The price for twin packs of the devices has risen by more than 500 percent since the company acquired the product in 2007 and now stands at a list price of $608 per two-pack. Bresch said the company sold about four million two-packs in the last 12 months. Her salary was $18 million over the same period, she said. The company took steps to try to alleviate the outrage last month, first offering $300 coupons and then announcing that it would produce a generic version at less than half the price. But those moves hardly satisfied parents of children with acute food allergies, who often have to purchases several pairs of the devices each year. Bresch said the company is working to increase the product's shelf life to 24 months from its current expiration period of 12 months. Members of the panel were similarly unimpressed by the new measures, suggesting they only came because the company faced widespread condemnation. “Driving the price down is great, but Congress shouldn’t be micromanaging that,” Chaffetz said. Though he said he “believes in profit,” Chaffetz added he has significant concerns about the salaries of executives at the company and the lack of competition in the market. Rep. Elijah Cummings of Maryland, the committee’s senior Democrat, accused Bresch of raising prices “to get filthy rich at the expense of our constituents” and compared her to Martin Shkreli, the controversial former head of a drug company that raised the price of medicine used to combat infections for patients with AIDS. Despite the more than $600 price tag, Bresch told lawmakers that Mylan only earns $100 in profit from each two-pack of EpiPens. “Many people incorrectly assume we make $600 off each EpiPen. This is simply not true,” she said. “The misconception about our profits is understandable, and at least partly due to the complex environment in which pharmaceutical prices are determined. The pricing of a pharmaceutical product is opaque and frustrating, especially for patients.” Bresch also argued that the focus on pricing risks ignoring the secondary issue of access, but she said she does not plan to increase the price of EpiPens in 2017. “In the more than eight years we have owned the EpiPen product, we have worked diligently and invested to enhance the product and make it more available,” she said in her testimony. “Price and access exist in a balance, and we believe we have struck that balance.” Rep. Blake Farenthold, a Corpus Christi Republican, focused much of his questioning on the complexity of pharmaceutical pricing. “I want to fix this because it’s not just your product that is the problem,” he said. But he added that he did not understand why the company had increased its marketing expenses so significantly. The issue has an unusual complication for Congress due to the fact that Bresch’s father is Sen. Joe Manchin, a West Virginia Democrat. The senator has said he shares the public’s concerns about the drug’s price, but he has been supportive of his daughter’s efforts to rein in the controversy and has sought to redirect concerns to the broader issue of prescription drug costs. Bresch’s family-related problems were further compounded this week when USA Todayreported that her mother, Gayle Manchin, spearheaded a successful effort to encourage states to require schools to purchase EpiPens while her daughter led the company producing them. In the hearing, Bresch called the story a “cheap shot.” Members of the panel also directed criticism at the Food and Drug Administration for not doing more to introduce similar products to the market. “The FDA needs to speed up its actions and allow more competition, and it’s not doing that now,” Rep. John Duncan, R-Tenn., told the agency's Dr. Doug Throckmorton. The FDA has a backlog of generic drugs under review. Regulators said earlier this year that potential competitor for the EpiPen from Teva Pharmaceuticals had problems with its application and should not be expected to hit the market until 2017 or later. Republicans on the Senate Finance Committee, including Sen. John Cornyn of Texas, have also sent a letter Tuesday to the inspector general of the health department requesting a review of whether Mylan and other drug manufacturers are using Medicaid rebates to appropriately offset costs. The EpiPen episode has also boosted long-running efforts from Democrats to draw attention to prescription drug prices. Rep. Lloyd Doggett of Austin chairs a House Democratic task force created last year to focus on the topic. “This whole problem seems to be another excellent example of what happens when you have monopoly pricing and don’t have effective competition,” he told The Dallas Morning News last month. “It is an across-the-board problem, and this is just one that is particularly egregious.”
09.21.2016	Libby and I joined American Cancer Society San Antonio area leaders Angela Lee and Chelsea Hart at the annual Bark For Life event. Gathered in historic San Pedro Springs Park to celebrate canine companions and raise awareness for the fight against cancer.
09.14.2016	By Naomi Jagoda Posted September 14, 2016 Treasury Secretary Jack Lew met with House Ways and Means Committee members Wednesday as the Obama administration works to finalize rules aimed at curbing offshore tax deals. The rules, proposed in April, have drawn concerns from business groups and lawmakers on both sides of the aisle. They would treat some inter-company debt as equity. The rules were designed to take aim at a tax-avoidance strategy called "earnings stripping" that is used by companies that participate in "inversions" — transactions in which U.S. companies move their headquarters overseas to lower their taxes. However, stakeholders say the proposal is too broad and would hurt routine businesses transactions. A Treasury spokesperson said that “Treasury has engaged extensively with a wide range of stakeholders regarding our proposed earnings stripping regulations," and the meeting with Ways and Means members was part of that process. House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) called the meeting "constructive." "The secretary shares the view it’s important to get this right rather than rush it," he said. Brady said that his message to Treasury is that the department should slow down and take stakeholders' comments seriously. He said he thinks Treasury should issue revised rules in the form of proposed rules so that stakeholders can provide more feedback before they are finalized. Brady also said he thinks that a "true cost-benefit analysis" of the rules should be conducted. "This is a major rule, with major costs," he said. "You have to make sure that you’re not doing more harm than good in the rule." Rep. Sandy Levin (D-Mich.), the top Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee, said that Lew "made it clear they're taking a hard look at all the issues." "I have full confidence that they're going to do what they say they're doing," he said. "And that is, look at all the issues, look at all the points of view and come forth with a regulation that is reasonable." Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) said in a statement after the meeting that "Treasury should get it right, but it’s time to get it done." "So many lobbyists are seeking rejection not refinement," Doggett said. "None of this rulemaking would have been necessary had Congress done its job regarding those corporations that renounce their American citizenship and change their address to evade their share of our national security costs.” Doggett criticized some Ways and Means members for being "eager to encourage Treasury to do as little as possible, as late as possible to address offshore tax shenanigans." Lew previously met with members of the Senate Finance Committee in July, and other Treasury officials also met with members of the congressional tax-writing committees that month.
09.08.2016	By John Kelly Posted September 8, 2016 A House bill introduced today would provide tax credits of up to $2,400 to employers who hire current and former foster youth between the ages of 18 and 27. The Improved Employment Outcomes for Foster Youth Act would for the first time include foster youth as an eligible category under the federal Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC), which incentivizes the hiring of certain groups who struggle with barriers to employment. The credit began 20 years ago as an incentive to hire veterans, but its scope has widened to include citizens with certain hiring challenges. Under the new bill, an employer could claim the credit for up to $2,400 for hiring any youth or young adult who was in foster care on his or her 16th birthday. The credit can be claimed for a hire between the ages of 18 and 27. WOTC is claimable on an annual basis. So under the bill introduced today, each foster youth in care at age 18 carries a claimable value of $21,600 between then and age 26. The idea to legislate current and former foster youth into the WOTC was sparked in part by a partnership forged last year between the nonprofit iFoster and Raley’s, a California-based supermarket chain. The program has expanded to include Starbucks and manufacturer Mondelez International as partners. “We pursued this path and the creation of this bill because when we talked to employers, they were not interested in the subsidized work internships or subsidized employment,” said Serita Cox, the co-founder and executive director of iFoster, who has helped develop the legislation. “Instead, they felt strongly about the tax credit offered to veterans.” The iFoster program worked with transition-age, kinship and crossover youth ages 16 to 24 in a seven-step program that involves a screening and interview process. iFoster completes a pre-employment phase with a cohort of potential employees before they interview and start working at the company. “The caliber of the youths and the success they’re having on the job has been tremendous,” said iFoster co-founder Reid Cox. “One of the key issues here is that none of this is trying to offset that these kids are bad employees. It’s just to level the playing field.” Sean Hughes, a child welfare consultant who helped develop the legislation, said “at least” 100,000 youths and young adults who spent time in foster care would be WOTC eligible. The number might be far higher, based on federal foster care data from 2014. There were 22,392 exited foster care due to “emancipation” in fiscal 2014, according to federal data. Assuming that is about average, approximately 201,000 workers would be eligible in any year. The bill leaves it to the Department of Labor to determine how employers would verify the foster care experience of a worker, and then document that for the tax credit. In addition to unemployed military veterans, current groups eligible for WOTC claims include ex-felons, teens seeking summer employment, people receiving welfare benefits or food stamps, or workers referred from a vocational rehabilitation program. The bill has been introduced by five members of the House Ways and Means Committee: Democrats Jim McDermott (Wash.), Danny Davis (Ill.) and Lloyd Doggett (Texas); and Republicans Dave Reichert (Wash.) and Tom Reed (N.Y.).
09.06.2016	By Anita Miller Posted September 6, 2016 AARP has announced U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett as a recipient of the 2016 “Champion of the 50+” legislative leadership award for his significant achievements during the 114th Congress that benefit the lives of the 50+ and our families. Representative Doggett received his award for preserving seniors’ access to healthcare with his sponsorship and support in the passage of the Notice of Observation, Treatment and Implication for Care Eligibility (NOTICE) Act. The law requires hospitals to provide meaningful written and oral notification to patients who are in the hospital “under observation” for more than 24 hours. “The work of Representative Doggett will help ensure that those who go to a hospital receive adequate explanations for their treatment, which has the potential to save them thousands of dollars in charges,” said AARP Texas Director Bob Jackson. “Thanks to Representative Doggett’s bipartisan leadership, the NOTICE Act will help families navigate the health care system more easily during what can be a traumatic time.” The new law requires hospitals to notify patients that they may incur huge out-of-pocket costs if they stay more than 24 hours without being formally admitted. Currently, patients can be liable for substantial hospital bills while under hospital observation. Medicare will not pay for skilled nursing care unless a person has spent three consecutive days in the hospital as an inpatient. Also, Medicare does not pay for long-term care, or what’s known as custodial care, to help with basic personal tasks of everyday life.
09.05.2016	By Alicia Neaves Posted September 5, 2016 5:24pm SAN ANTONIO -- On Labor Day 50 years ago, Cesar Chavez led a march from the Texas-Mexico border through San Antonio to Austin. He led thousands in the fight for better wages for farm workers. San Antonians held a commemorative march Monday morning to mark the anniversary. "This really recognizes the importance of preserving our history, our culture, and passing this education to the next generation," said Ernest J. Martinez, Chairman of the Cesar E. Chavez Legacy and Educational Foundation Scholarship Fund. Activists, community leaders, and volunteers attended mass at San Fernando Cathedral Monday morning before marching along the streets of downtown San Antonio. "Just to pay homage and to pay respect for what they all did 50 years ago," said Patrick Rodriguez, Vice President of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees Local 76. On Labor Day 1966, more than 15,000 melon farmers, led by union leader and activist Cesar Chavez, marched 400 miles from Starr County on the border to Austin in the middle of watermelon harvest. Chavez co-founded the National Farm Workers Association which later became the United Farm Workers union. "[Chavez] knew there were many people who persevered against tremendous odds and made great contributions like the strikers and marchers of 1966 who left the Rio Grande Valley and marched up to Austin. We're here to commemorate their legacy and then recommit ourselves to the work that still needs to be done," said Paul Chavez, President of the Cesar Chavez foundation, and son of the labor leader. The melon strikers marched to the capital to ask the governor to raise their wages from 40 cents to the federal minimum wage of $1.25. The march lasted roughly 90 days. "Cesar Chavez joined these hundreds of poor people who put food on our tables but could barely earn enough to put food on their own tables. So we honor them today," Congressman Lloyd Doggett said. Following the March was an assembly at Milam Park where crowds celebrated what activists have achieved, and how far they still have to go. "There is never a finish line in any struggle. There is a lot to do. There is a lot of work ahead of us," said Victor San Miguel of the Carnalismo Brown Berets. During the Labor Day strike of 1966, workers were brought in from Mexico to fill the void in the watermelon fields. Activists continue to fight for better wages for farmers and better-working conditions.
09.01.2016	By Elizabeth Waltman Posted September 5, 2016 Last week, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration recommended universal Zika testing of all blood donations in the United States and its territories. This recommendation is an important step to safeguard the blood supply by ensuring that Zika-infected blood is not transfused into patients. This measure protects some of the most vulnerable members of our community: pregnant women and their unborn children. In July, anticipating the spread of the disease, the South Texas Blood and Tissue Center, or STBTC, became one of the first three blood banks in the continental U.S. to implement voluntary Zika testing for blood donors. We did this because San Antonio’s patients and hospitals depend on our blood supply, and we knew that if even one person contracted Zika from infected blood, we would have failed in our mission. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-San Antonio, expressed early concern about the impact on public health of the Zika virus and called for full funding to fight it. He contacted STBTC in the spring with questions about the blood supply. This summer, we asked him if he would reach out to the FDA and encourage other blood banks to implement Zika testing of donations before local transmission occurred. He immediately took up the cause of universal testing and assembled a bipartisan group of members of Congress, who urged the FDA to implement the policy. Doggett’s leadership and his coalition of key legislators prompted the decision to recommend universal Zika testing across the United States. This is how government should work — Doggett heard our concerns, met with stakeholders and urged San Antonio’s leadership be followed by communities nationwide. Now, we strongly request that the congressional majority pass a long-overdue bipartisan funding bill that enables the public health community’s ability to prevent the spread of and effects from the Zika virus. Almost daily, researchers all over the world are discovering new details about Zika’s mode of transmission, how long it stays active, and the effects on those infected. We now know the virus can be present in the body longer than previously realized and can cause medical issues beyond microcephaly, which affects unborn children, and Guillain-Barré syndrome, which can cause paralysis and death. Universal testing means all donations must be tested for Zika; therefore, beginning Sept. 23, STBTC can no longer accept blood donations from donors who do not consent to the Zika test. Currently, about 12 percent of our donors do not consent to be tested for Zika, which could have a significant impact on the blood supply. We are working to improve that statistic by educating donors about the importance of testing blood for Zika and asking them to carefully consider providing consent. To consent to a Zika test, all a donor needs to do is provide an additional signature. A sample of blood is taken from the donation, just as we already do for HIV, hepatitis and other infectious diseases. Because 80 percent of those infected with Zika do not have symptoms, testing the blood of donors can provide early detection of transmission. Ultimately, STBTC and blood centers across the United States are committed to the safety and availability of the blood supply, but we cannot do it alone. We need our communities to continue to donate blood and consent to the tests needed to keep blood safe and available for patients, and we need a bipartisan bill passed that fully funds additional efforts to combat the virus. Elizabeth Waltman is chief operating officer of the South Texas Blood and Tissue Center.
09.01.2016	Ethel Minor, Ella Austin, Ruth Jones McClendon, Mayor Ivy Taylor, Artemisia Bowden, and Myra Davis Hemmings are all important figures for the Eastside community in San Antonio. These black women all served, taught, and represented – or currently represent – the community in a number of different ways, but they all share a story of struggle and triumph. On Saturday afternoon, The Martinez Street Women’s Center, San Anto Cultural Arts, and the Antioch Missionary Baptist Church unveiled a mural at 2603 E. Houston St. that was created to honor these local women and inspire young women of all ages and backgrounds on their own path to adulthood and leadership. The free unveiling event featured music by DJ Despeinada, booths that offered screen printing and stamp pressing, and shaved ice creations by Chamoy City Limits to beat the summer heat. Attendees enjoyed free snacks and beverages and the Martinez Street Women’s Center staff hosted their annual Back to School Giveaway and provided free backpacks with school supplies for those in need of materials. Rev. Kenneth R. Kemp opened the ceremony with a prayer. Councilman Alan Warrick (D2) and Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-35) gave brief remarks, praising the mural, which was created with the help of over 100 community members and adorns the wall of a building owned by the Antioch Church. Before beginning work on the mural, the Martinez Street Women’s Center held collaborative meetings with the community to ensure that residents had a say in what would go on the wall. “The overarching theme that everyone decided on was the women who came before us,” said Martinez Street Women’s Center Executive Director Andrea Figueroa. “We really wanted to make it an African American wall because of where it is: in the heart of Eastside San Antonio. The other theme is guiding young women to womanhood, making sure they have positive things to do, think, and say.” The public art piece marks the 51st mural in San Antonio brought together by San Anto Cultural Arts, in collaboration with the Martinez Street Women’s Center and Antioch Church. The implementation of the artwork was led by mural artists Jane Madrigal and Rabbit Rye. Artist Raashad Ali was in charge of all the portraits in the mural, and other artists and community members assisted. “I want to thank the Alice Kleberg Reynolds Foundation, Bexar County, and the (City’s) Department for Culture & Creative Development for giving us funds to complete this mural,” said San Anto Cultural Arts Interim Director Adriana Garcia. Councilman Warrick spoke on the importance of teaching young people about the figures on the wall and why they matter. “I think this is gonna be an inspiration for a lot of young girls,” Warrick said. “Our history is important on the Eastside because we have heroes and ‘sheroes’ in our community that we need to honor. This is a great step forward.” Congressman Doggett said this is the first mural San Anto Cultural arts has completed on the Eastside, as they usually focus on the Westside. He said he looks forward to more public art in the future. “As we pass by here and others pass by here, they will see leaders that have contributed to build this community and are continuing to inspire others,” Doggett said. “What’s especially beautiful is all the work that Martinez Street does in between these murals, and that is working with our girls and young women to be healthy, to involve them in the community. This is a great coming together.”
08.31.2016	By Shari Biediger If the young Army Air Corps cadets who once flew training missions out of Brooks Air Field in 1917 could do so in 2017, they would have a bird’s eye view of San Antonio’s newest park taking shape. Not that this is just another place to picnic. A groundbreaking ceremony Wednesday morning kicked off construction on The Greenline, a brand-new linear park, that will eventually connect the Southeast Side development that is Brooks City Base to the San Antonio River via a 43-acre urban green space. It’s the kind of park worthy of its historic setting. Plans call for a vibrant space that links the manicured landscape of the former military installation to the wild and fertile lands of the San Antonio River. Hike and bike trails, from six to 12 feet wide, will border five terracing lakes and lead visitors into six large plazas, a great lawn, picnic areas, a food truck court and pavilions. When the first phase of building is complete in the fall of 2017, visitors to the park will enjoy a $10.6 million park complete with a giant play structure, lakes for fishing, fitness stations and an outdoor games area. There will be space enough and the infrastructure, like lighting, restrooms and water fountains, to hold large events like festivals. The Greenline will offer free Wi-Fi, and like the Mission Reach which the park will connect to in a later phase of the plans, it will feature a variety of public art as well. “This is a dream come true. We can’t wait for this park because it’s on the Southside where we love to barbecue, get our coolers and our families together,” said Brooks Board Chairman Manuel Villa. “Greenline will be our new weekend hotspot.” Elected officials such as Councilwoman Rebecca Viagran (D3), Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-San Antonio), and State Rep. John Lujan (R-118) were present Wednesday to celebrate the groundbreaking, along with representatives from San Antonio River Authority, San Antonio Water System, Mission Trails Baptist Hospital, 210 Development, Southside Chamber, the City of San Antonio and other businesses in the area. The name for the new park was inspired by the popular High Line, an elevated urban park in New York City, said Brooks President and CEO Leo Gomez. “It really is the foundation of the mixed-use community we’re trying to build in order to attract marquee employers to this corner of San Antonio,” Gomez said. “The reason is because we hear from prospective employers in our development process that they care about the quality of education, the quality of the neighborhoods their workforce might be living in, the restaurants, the greenspaces and opportunities for entertainment in the area. “That’s why we’re building this mixed-use community here at Brooks, all in the end to make it more attractive for choice employers we want to recruit to this part of San Antonio.” It’s far from the first ceremonial groundbreaking in recent years for Brooks City Base, the 1,300-acre live-work-play area that’s now a community of new homes, apartments, schools, hotels, a hospital, government offices and commercial enterprises. Nor is it the first time Brooks has made groundbreaking history. Born of a Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) that shuttered military operations at the base in 2011, Brooks since that time has served as a national model for repurposing a closed military base into a successful magnet for development. Now owned and managed by the Brooks Development Authority, it is governed by an 11-member board of directors that is appointed by the San Antonio City Council. Funds to build The Greenline are coming from $7.6 million in revenue bonds issued by the Authority and another $3 million from the City of San Antonio’s capital budget approved two years ago. More than $2 million of the park budget will go toward a water quality project. “We’re developing a park, but at the very core of it, it’s a water quality and storm water runoff project,” Gomez explained. “It’s also why the San Antonio River Authority is a fan of the project — because the ponds are being developed in a way that helps filter the water and improve the quality before it drains into the San Antonio River.” Gomez said The Greenline will not only make Brooks more pedestrian friendly by connecting to existing park space on the Brooks campus and its namesake’s gravesite (aviator Sidney Brooks, 1895-1917), but by 2018 will also link to the Mission Reach trails along the San Antonio River at the site where the historic acequias are located just north of Mission San Juan. City leaders see Wednesday’s groundbreaking as heralding a new era for San Antonio’s Southside, one that physically connects the growing communities south of the city, with miles of hike and bike trails, to its neighbors in other parts of San Antonio where 140 miles of trails already exist. “When they decided three years ago to make a shift of the Brooks mission from solely science and technology to very much a town center, we’ve seen the growth skyrocket here,” said Councilwoman Rebecca Viagran (D3), who helped turn the dirt at the groundbreaking ceremony. “Brooks has been history-making and transformative for our entire region in getting a medical school and attracting new businesses, new companies and new housing stock — absolutely transformational.” Viagran hopes District 3 will see even more linear parks in the future, “so we will be a recreational destination not only for the city, but for all of Texas.” For Gomez, the Greenline’s groundbreaking was “somewhat emotional. “When we assessed what we aspired to be and see where we are three years later, we can say this is a jewel, the key, of our land use plan,” he said. “We love the families that live on Brooks … and we look forward to seeing families enjoy a park without having to cross a fence or guard shack to do it.”
08.29.2016	By Rocío Guenther Posted August 27, 2016 Ethel Minor, Ella Austin, Ruth Jones McClendon, Mayor Ivy Taylor, Artemisia Bowden, and Myra Davis Hemmings are all important figures for the Eastside community in San Antonio. These black women all served, taught, and represented – or currently represent – the community in a number of different ways, but they all share a story of struggle and triumph. On Saturday afternoon, The Martinez Street Women’s Center, San Anto Cultural Arts, and the Antioch Missionary Baptist Church unveiled a mural at 2603 E. Houston St. that was created to honor these local women and inspire young women of all ages and backgrounds on their own path to adulthood and leadership. The free unveiling event featured music by DJ Despeinada, booths that offered screen printing and stamp pressing, and shaved ice creations by Chamoy City Limits to beat the summer heat. Attendees enjoyed free snacks and beverages and the Martinez Street Women’s Center staff hosted their annual Back to School Giveaway and provided free backpacks with school supplies for those in need of materials. Rev. Kenneth R. Kemp opened the ceremony with a prayer. Councilman Alan Warrick (D2) and Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-35) gave brief remarks, praising the mural, which was created with the help of over 100 community members and adorns the wall of a building owned by the Antioch Church. Before beginning work on the mural, the Martinez Street Women’s Center held collaborative meetings with the community to ensure that residents had a say in what would go on the wall. “The overarching theme that everyone decided on was the women who came before us,” said Martinez Street Women’s Center Executive Director Andrea Figueroa. “We really wanted to make it an African American wall because of where it is: in the heart of Eastside San Antonio. The other theme is guiding young women to womanhood, making sure they have positive things to do, think, and say.” The public art piece marks the 51st mural in San Antonio brought together by San Anto Cultural Arts, in collaboration with the Martinez Street Women’s Center and Antioch Church. The implementation of the artwork was led by mural artists Jane Madrigal and Rabbit Rye. Artist Raashad Ali was in charge of all the portraits in the mural, and other artists and community members assisted. “I want to thank the Alice Kleberg Reynolds Foundation, Bexar County, and the (City’s) Department for Culture & Creative Development for giving us funds to complete this mural,” said San Anto Cultural Arts Interim Director Adriana Garcia. Councilman Warrick spoke on the importance of teaching young people about the figures on the wall and why they matter. “I think this is gonna be an inspiration for a lot of young girls,” Warrick said. “Our history is important on the Eastside because we have heroes and ‘sheroes’ in our community that we need to honor. This is a great step forward.” Congressman Doggett said this is the first mural San Anto Cultural arts has completed on the Eastside, as they usually focus on the Westside. He said he looks forward to more public art in the future. “As we pass by here and others pass by here, they will see leaders that have contributed to build this community and are continuing to inspire others,” Doggett said. “What’s especially beautiful is all the work that Martinez Street does in between these murals, and that is working with our girls and young women to be healthy, to involve them in the community. This is a great coming together.”
08.29.2016	Greater San Antonio Hispanic Chamber of Commerce President Ramiro A. Cavazos and Vice President C. LeRoy Cavazos will join local Congressman Lloyd Doggett and Nina Olson, National Taxpayer Advocate, for a public forum on Tuesday, August 30, 8:30-10 am at the Maestro Entrepreneur Center, 1811 S. Laredo Street. Ms. Olson, leads the Taxpayer Advocate Service, an independent organization within the IRS responsible for fair treatment of taxpayers. This discussion provides an excellent opportunity to raise concerns with the tax system and IRS customer service. As a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, Congressman Doggett wants to hear your ideas about how to make our tax laws fairer and to make our system work better for all.
08.26.2016	AP: FDA advises Zika screening for all US blood centers By Matthew Perrone Posted 10:35am | Updated 11:16am WASHINGTON (AP) — The Food and Drug Administration wants all U.S. blood centers to start screening for Zika, a major expansion intended to protect the nation’s blood supply from the mosquito-borne virus. The new advisory means all U.S. states and territories will need to begin testing blood donations for Zika. Previously, the FDA had limited the requirement to Puerto Rico and two Florida counties. “There is still much uncertainty regarding the nature and extent of Zika virus transmission,” said Dr. Peter Marks, director of the FDA’s biologic products center, in an agency release. “At this time, the recommendation for testing the entire blood supply will help ensure that safe blood is available for all individuals who might need transfusion.” Blood collection sites already test donations for HIV, hepatitis, West Nile virus and other blood-borne viruses. FDA officials said Zika testing is already underway in Puerto Rico and parts of Florida, where “it has shown to be beneficial in identifying donations infected with Zika virus.” The FDA has authorized use of two experimental blood-screening tests for Zika, one made by Roche and another from Hologic Inc. Several testing sites are already voluntarily using the technology, including blood centers in Texas. The cost of adding Zika testing to the blood screening process is less than $10, according to officials at South Texas Blood and Tissue Center. Since February, U.S. blood centers have been turning away people who have recently traveled to areas with Zika outbreaks, under a previous FDA directive. Zika is spread primarily by mosquito bites, as well as sex. There have been cases of Zika transmission through blood transfusion in Brazil. The FDA works with other federal agencies to set standards for screening, testing and handling blood donations. Last month, blood centers in Miami and Fort Lauderdale had to halt donations until they could begin screening each unit of blood. The order followed now-confirmed reports of local Zika transmission in the Miami area — the first in the continental U.S. Puerto Rico suspended blood donations and imported blood products in March until the island began screening its blood. Friday’s announcement follows recent pressure from members of Congress urging the FDA to expand Zika screening. “We must implement widespread universal screening now to prevent any further contamination of the blood supply before it occurs and to pre-empt a widespread shortfall in the blood supply,” stated Reps. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas, Patrick Murphy, D-Fla. and a half-dozen other House members, in a letter to the FDA earlier this month. The Zika virus causes only a mild illness in most people, but scientists have confirmed that infection during pregnancy can lead to severe brain-related birth defects. The tropical mosquito that spreads Zika and other viruses is found in the southern U.S. While health officials have predicted that mosquitoes in the continental U.S. would begin spreading Zika this summer, they also have said they expect only isolated clusters of infections and not widespread outbreaks. So far, there have been about 40 cases of homegrown Zika in Florida.
08.22.2016	Austin and HUD leaders announce end of veteran homelessness By Ashley Goudeau, KVUE News Posted August 19, 2016 6:57pm AUSTIN, TEXAS - Austin Mayor Steve Adler was joined by U.S. Representative Lloyd Doggett and U.S. Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julián Castro Friday morning to announce the city has effectively ended homelessness among veterans. "Two states and 29 communities have now ended veteran homelessness. I'm proud to say that Austin is one of those cities," Castro said. The road to ending homelessness among veterans started in October 2014 when then-mayor Lee Leffingwell accepted First Lady Michelle Obama's nationwide Mayor's Challenge to end veteran homelessness. "The City of Austin's role is to support them and provide seed money," Leffingwell said during a news conference about the challenge. Ten months later, newly elected Mayor Steve Adler vowed to finish what Leffingwell started and announced a plan to bring together service providers and property owners and managers to find housing. Adler said it seemed like a basic concept, but everyone quickly learned of the challenges. "But then we ran into a wall, and that wall is the fear of the unknown," said Adler. Adler explained there was concern among property owners that veterans paying rent with federal vouchers wouldn't be good tenants. The solution came in the form of a private fund, the Housing Heroes fund. "We started a risk fund called the Housing Hero[es] fund. A fund created by all of us to be there just in case something went wrong because we knew that nothing would really go wrong," said Adler. In two years time, the Ending Community Homelessness Coalition said 682 homeless veterans have been housed and Austin has a system in place to make sure if a homeless veteran is identified, they will be housed within 90 days. "We know that if we can end homelessness for our veterans, then we can end all forms of homelessness," Castro added. City leaders are hoping they can use the same system to end homelessness among other groups. Next month, Austin will join a national 100-day challenge to end youth homelessness and it is one of just seven cities to receive a federal grant to help people returning home from prison to find housing.
07.15.2016	Patricia Castillo, the founder of the P.E.A.C.E. Initiative, joined me at the National Speak Out Against Gun Violence on the steps of the U.S. Capitol yesterday evening. The moving stories of those lost remind us of the real costs of inaction.
07.14.2016	The Washington Post today writes about how pharmaceutical company Gilead is a world leader in tax dodging and price gouging of Americans. While exporting drug patents and profits to Ireland, it continues to charge Americans about twice as much as the Irish on at least one of its major drugs. As I told the Post, Gilead’s formula for success: prices up, profits up, tax avoidance up. Maker of $84,000 drug avoided $10 billion in U.S. taxes, report says By Renae Merle and Carolyn Y. Johnson July 13 at 6:00 AM Over the last few years, Gilead Sciences has grown into one of the world’s largest pharmaceutical companies, fueled by the sales of expensive specialty treatments for hepatitis C. The company’s revenue has tripled since 2012, to $32.6 billion last year. According to a report to be released Wednesday, Gilead has also developed another specialty: Avoiding billions in taxes. The California-based pharmaceutical giant moved some of its assets to Ireland, apparently allowing income from some U.S. drug sales to be shifted abroad and taxed at a lower rate, according to Americans for Tax Fairness, a liberal advocacy group. It has also avoided nearly $10 billion in taxes by not bringing some of its foreign profits back to the United States, the group says. Gilead declined to comment on the report. The study strikes at a simmering battle between the Obama administration and the business community over whether U.S. corporations are inappropriately avoiding billions in taxes by taking advantage of a flawed tax code. In 2013, Gilead launched the drug Sovaldi – a hepatitis C cure that carried an $84,000 list price for a 12-week course of treatment. That drug was followed by another treatment, Harvoni, which carried a list price of $94,500. Last month, Gilead received approval for a third treatment, Epclusa, which carries a list price of $74,760. Last year, a Senate Finance Committee investigated the company’s pricing of hepatitis C drugs and concluded the company had sought to maximize profits at the expense of making the remedies accessible to patients. The drugs’ prices also had a noticeable effect on overall prescription drug spending. In 2015, health care spending on prescription drugs grew more than 12 percent, according to an analysis published in the peer-reviewed medical journal Health Affairs, a rise attributed in part to the new generation of hepatitis C treatments. The new report by Americans for Tax Fairness shows that as Gilead’s revenues and profits have grown, driven largely by its hepatitis C franchise, a perplexing incongruity has developed: In 2015, nearly two-thirds of its revenues were generated by U.S. sales, but the U.S. accounted for only 37 percent of its profits before taxes. That’s despite the fact that the U.S. generally pays more for drugs than other countries. The report suggests that “transfer pricing” helps account for this disparity. In 2013, Gilead’s chief financial officer said the company’s tax rate would “decline over time” because its intellectual property for Sovaldi had been transferred to a subsidiary in Ireland, which has a lower corporate tax rate, 12.5 percent, than the United States. This strategy is common, legal and increasingly used by pharmaceutical companies, said Jeremy Scott, editor-in-chief of commentary at Tax Analysts, an organization specializing in tax policy. "People weren’t doing it as aggressively in the ‘90s as in the past five to 10 years," Scott said. “This is a recent trend." The new report notes that Gilead's effective tax rate tumbled to 16.4 percent last year compared with 27.3 percent in 2013. (The statutory U.S. federal tax rate in the is 35 percent.) Meanwhile, Gilead has kept a growing amount of its foreign profits overseas, reaching $28.5 billion in 2015. The company would have to pay about $9.7 billion in taxes if it brought those profits back to the United States, according to the report. “Gilead excels at tax dodging and price gouging," Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Tex.) said in an e-mail. "Instead of innovation, it has spent more on stock buybacks for executives and shareholders than on research and development. Gilead’s formula for success: prices up, profits up, tax avoidance up." Gilead is just one of dozens of large pharmaceutical and technology companies that is using a variety of tactics to potentially lower its taxes. Apple has nearly $200 billion in profits overseas, Microsoft has about $100 billion, while Gilead's competitor, Pfizer, has about $193 billion. If they were to bring those back to the United States, the companies would owe billions in taxes. "It is quite amazing what the pharma companies can pull off, and it’s a global issue," said Steven M. Rosenthal, a senior fellow at the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center.
07.12.2016	A year ago, America made a momentous decision concerning the best way to deal with Iran, a dangerous, authoritarian regime with a history of promoting terrorism. We chose diplomacy over war. Today, I spoke on the House floor against Republican bills designed to undermine the Iran nuclear agreement.
07.08.2016	The New York Times: Turkish Leader Erdogan Making New Enemies and Frustrating Old Friends - Excerpt By Sabrina Tavernise July 4, 2016 Where Mr. Erdogan once held up Turkey as a model of Muslim democracy, he now frequently attacks democratic institutions. The editor in chief of Turkey’s largest daily has fled the country, and another is on trial on charges of revealing state secrets. The president has grown intolerant of criticism, purging his oldest allies from his inner circle and replacing them with yes men and, in some cases, relatives. (His son-in-law is the energy minister.) Mr. Erdogan hints darkly in near-daily speeches on Turkish television that foreign powers are plotting to destroy him, and he has moved from a modest house in central Ankara to a grandiose, Persian Gulf-style palace on the edge of the city. Brown and pink buildings for his staff dot meticulously landscaped grounds so enormous that staff members are driven around in minibuses. Now he has set his sights on a new target: transforming Turkey’s parliamentary system of government into a presidential one, a change his critics say could soon open the door to his seizing the title of president for life. On the night of the airport bombing, the Parliament, which his party controls, worked until 5:45 a.m. to pass sweeping legislation that will help pave the way by purging hundreds of judges from Turkey’s top two courts. “The ship is going very fast toward the rocks,” said Ergun Ozbudun, a liberal constitutional expert who once defended Mr. Erdogan. “Pray for us.”
07.08.2016	As much as I disagree with House Speaker Paul Ryan on how to deal with gun violence and a host of other issues, I believe he has set the right tone this morning about the violence that has afflicted our country this week. I share his opening comments just delivered to the House:
07.07.2016	
07.07.2016	
07.07.2016	
06.30.2016	
06.29.2016	
06.23.2016	
06.23.2016	Below you can view my House Floor speech today during the gun safety legislation sit in, which includes a very moving message from a constituent, a young mother to be in San Antonio.
06.22.2016	Because Republicans have been sitting on their hands, refusing to allow even a vote on common-sense gun reform, today I participated in a sit-in on the House floor led by my colleague, civil rights pioneer John Lewis. You can view my statement here.
06.14.2016	Rep. Lloyd Doggett appears on ABC to discuss the Orlando Terror Attack:
06.13.2016	Today, I released this response to the horrifying events in Florida. We saw what one man with hate and an assault weapon could do. Congress could put a stop to that.
06.10.2016	Tax Notes: Relief Coming to Foreign Students Caught in Refund Dispute By Fred Stokeld Posted June 9, 2016 The IRS says it will provide relief and take corrective steps in response to unjustified denials of withholding tax refunds to foreign students in the United States. IRS Commissioner John Koskinen made the assurance in a June 6 reply to House Ways and Means Committee member Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas, who in April asked the commissioner about difficulties faced by thousands of foreign students trying to obtain refunds of withholding tax reported on Form 1042-S, "Foreign Person's U.S. Source Income Subject to Withholding." The IRS denied the refunds because it said information provided by the students does not match information provided by their schools, Doggett said, adding that if disallowing the withholding credits leads to unpaid balances on students' tax returns, students are billed and receive notices of levy from the IRS. In response, Koskinen told Doggett the IRS instituted several controls for tax year 2014 in an effort to ensure that refunds to nonresident aliens are legitimate. But an IRS review of the controls found they might be too restrictive in some areas, forcing the agency to review and validate returns that show little risk of fraudulent or erroneous refunds. To address the problem, the IRS is working to identify affected taxpayers and will issue them refunds, with interest if due, Koskinen said. Students whose withholding credits were denied will have them restored, thereby eliminating any balance due and stopping the notices of levy, he added. Also, the IRS will redesign its process for detecting fraudulent or questionable returns and refunds, according to Koskinen. "Our goal is to balance appropriately our responsibility to promptly process and pay legitimate refund claims with our responsibility to protect the government against fraudulent refunds claims," he said. The IRS also addressed the matter in a June 7 statement . The National Association of College and University Business Officers (NACUBO) welcomed the announcement. "NACUBO is pleased that the IRS is helping students come to resolution and ensuring they receive their 2014 and 2015 refunds," Liz Clark, director of federal affairs at NACUBO, said in a statement. "The root cause and extent of the problems related to 1042-S processing remain unclear. We hope IRS is taking the necessary steps to ensure this situation is not repeated in the future." Karin Johns, director of tax policy at the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities, also expressed approval. The association "is pleased to see that the IRS has recognized the problem of failing to issue refunds of withholding tax amounts on income reported on Form 1042-S for foreign students attending our institutions, and is taking the proper measures to correct the backlog and issue refunds as appropriate," she said. "We remain concerned that these students were somehow unfairly targeted, and should not have caused any red flag compliance concerns in the first place. We look forward to the problem being corrected fairly and expeditiously."
06.07.2016	Press Release: Levin, Doggett Statement on GOP Poverty Blueprint WASHINGTON, DC– Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI) and Human Resources Subcommittee Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) today released the following statement after House Republicans unveiled their “Better Way” messaging proposal on poverty and welfare: “Unfortunately, this ‘new’ Republican blueprint on poverty is a collection of empty gestures. By including little detail about how they would actually support families struggling with poverty, the Republicans have shown once again that their primary focus is to cut programs that work. “One of the few positive proposals from Speaker Ryan’s previous poverty plan – expanding EITC – isn’t even included. “Block grants – or ‘giving states more flexibility,’ as the Republican plan refers to them – are not new; they are just an old way to reduce accountability and facilitate cuts to health care, food assistance, and housing for struggling families. “And under the guise of promoting work through work requirements, the Republican proposal would cut off vital help to unemployed Americans. If Republicans really want to support work, they should reverse their proposed cuts in job training, make college more affordable, stop trying to cut child care, and allow a vote to increase the minimum wage. Furthermore, with the states currently spending an average of a mere eight percent of their Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) funding on work activities, Republicans should be joining us to reform TANF to make it a true pathway into the middle class by accessing education, training and child care essential to the ability of working mothers to obtain and keep good jobs. “Unlike the Republican proposal, Democrats have put forward real policies to reduce poverty and increase opportunities for families living in and facing poverty. “This proposal isn’t a better way, it’s the wrong way. It’s a dead-end for American families struggling with poverty.” ###
06.06.2016	CQ NEWS: How Improving Tax Filings on Alimony Could Help Foster Kids By Alan K. Ota, CQ Roll Call Posted June 6, 2016 Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas, has an eye on a new tax filing requirement for alimony income that would help pay for an expansion of federal support for foster care. Doggett, a senior member of Ways and Means, said he was developing a plan that would require individuals receiving alimony to file a form to report income from such payments, which sometimes is underreported. The form would be similar to a 1099 form that is used to report self-employment income, among other things. Supporters say the measure would raise about $1.7 billion over 10 years if more recipients accurately report income from alimony. "The question is how do you ensure that it is reported. A 1099 would ensure compliance," Doggett said. Currently, taxpayers that provide spousal support are directed to report such tax-deductible payments on the "alimony paid" line item on their 1040 tax return along with the recipient's Social Security number. But often such payments are not accurately reported, creating a gap between alimony deductions that are claimed and what's reported as income received by the former spouse. A 2014 study by the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, or TIGTA, found a $2.3 billion disparity between alimony deductions claimed in 2010 and the corresponding income that was reported for that tax year. The report found that were 567,887 taxpayers who claimed alimony deductions totaling more than $10 billion. But of those, 266,190 returns could not be matched with income on a corresponding recipient's return. Doggett said he wanted to use revenue that would be raised from his alimony proposal to help finance a package of foster care-related measures, which would cost about $3 billion. The measures would incorporate items from a bill (HR 3781) by Doggett, including prevention of child abuse and keeping children out of foster care by providing family counseling and training. He has been discussing the issue with Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady, R-Texas, and Human Resources Subcommittee Chairman Vern Buchanan, R-Fla. Senate Finance Chairman Orrin G. Hatch, R-Utah., and Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., the panel's ranking member, have been discussing their own bipartisan draft version of foster care-related items. Doggett said he hoped to rally support for such legislation in both parties, including lawmakers representing states with troubled foster care systems. For example, a federal judge has ordered Mississippi to overhaul its foster care or face a federal takeover. Another federal judge found that the foster care system in Texas violated the constitutional rights of some of the program's 30,000 children and appointed two special masters to work with the state on changes. As Doggett develops his proposal, he could face competition from colleagues that may want to use taxes collected on alimony to raise revenue for other priorities. In the 113th Congress, former Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp, R-Mich., used similar proposals to help finance rate cuts in his tax overhaul blueprint. The Camp plan would have raised revenue by shifting the point of taxation for alimony payments from the recipient - who typically has a lower tax rate - to the provider of spousal support, who often has a higher tax rate. Alan Cole, an economist at the Tax Foundation, a conservative think tank, said Doggett's approach would be a good way to spur better reporting of alimony income and increased collection of taxes owed. "That's a reasonable policy proposal. It's something that would help to reduce the error rate," Cole said.
06.06.2016	
05.25.2016	On Capitol Hill I have been urging this Republican Congress to fully fund our efforts to combat the spread of the Zika virus. I spoke with Karina Kling from YNN to explain some of the dangers of Zika, and why the GOP shouldn't wait until they are bit before they respond to this mosquito-bourne threat.
05.20.2016	There have been more than 500 cases of the Zika virus in the U.S., and that number is only expected to grow. Congressman Lloyd Doggett talks to Fox 7 Austin about the need for fully funding the fight against Zika.
05.16.2016	How One Lawmaker Wants to Bring Down the Price of Pharmaceuticals By Rhonda Fanning Posted May 16, 2016 You may have noticed that the price for prescriptions is headed one direction: up. Roughly a fourth of Americans say they can’t pay for the drugs they’re prescribed. And Congress does not appear to be in the mood to take action. Well, not Congress at large, perhaps. One Texas congressman, however, has decided enough is enough on the high price of pharmaceuticals. Texas Rep. Lloyd Doggett is pressing the Obama administration to break the patents of high-priced pharmaceuticals developed with taxpayer assistance. “It is about where taxpayers actually paid for the research that leads to the pharmaceutical, and yet the pharmaceutical companies still gouge the taxpayer with these outrages prices,” Doggett says. He saysan existing law, one authored by a former Presidential candidate, hasn’t been invoked in the past, but could help license competitors to produce pharmaceuticals if they’ve been funded by the government. “There’s an old law, actually Bob Dole was one of the authors of the law, that says if the government and the taxpayers paid for it, the government has a right to go in when certain conditions are met and license someone else to compete, in order to get out the product,” Doggett says. He saysthat consumers in some countries abroad are able to get the drugs for cheaper than Americans can, even though they were developed on U.S. soil with U.S. taxpayer dollars. “They have a particular pharmaceutical out there right now to treat prostate cancer, paid for by government research – part of it through our military – and we’re paying in America a price that is so much more than that charged in Japan and Sweden and Canada, and I just don’t think it’s right,” he says. Doggettsays price gouging comes from limited push back from legislators and regulators. “It is happening because there’s not restraint from government,” Doggett says, “and there’s not been forceful enough response for it.”
05.16.2016	San Antonio Express News: Texas' Lloyd Doggett leads fight on drug prices By Bill Lambrecht Posted May 15, 2016 10:42pm WASHINGTON - With Congress unwilling to act, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett is marshaling Democrats to pressure the Obama administration to stem the soaring costs of prescription drugs. Doggett, D-San Antonio,has stepped up efforts to persuade the National Institutes of Health to take the unprecedented step of breaking patents on high-priced pharmaceuticals developed with taxpayer assistance. Doggettalso is pressing a lavishly funded entity created by the Affordable Care Act to spend more of its money on studying which drugs work best and making those findings widely known. In his expanding efforts, the veteran congressman is planning to hold hearings in San Antonio and elsewhere about what he considers the exorbitant price of many prescription drugs. He also said he intends to seek cooperation from local Veterans Administration offices and military installations related to the effectiveness of drugs they've prescribed. Behind the scenes, Doggett has taken the lead in organizing Democratic senators as well as House members in the gridlocked Congress. His efforts stand out because they amount to Democrats challenging a Democratic administration rather than Washington's usual partisan warfare. The sharp rise in prescription drug costs - driven in part by spending for specialty drugs like those for cancer and hepatitis C - catapulted the issue into prominence last year. Roughly one-fourth of Americans who take prescription drugs say they have difficulty paying for them, the Kaiser Foundation reported last month. Betty Scholl, of New Braunfels, said that even with a coupon, her mother is paying $362 for the inhaler she needs to treat her chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Because of that, her mother, Theresa Doege, 88, has difficulty making ends meet. "It's impossible," Scholl said. "You have to jump through hoops to get prescriptions. Sometimes she says, 'I'll just do without.' " 'Smirking bad boy' Doggett, 69, a former Texas Supreme Court justice, was elected to Congress in 1994. Amid complaints last year about ongoing hikes in prescription drugs, he set up a task force in the House to tackle the issue. He said last week that his initiative is aimed not just at the Obama administration in its waning months but also at preparing for what lies beyond. In a speech April 26 in Washington in front of the liberal Center for American Progress, Doggett referred to "the blizzard of price gouging (that) has been accompanied by a blizzard of lobbying and campaign contributions" by the nation's largest pharmaceutical companies. He recalled the much-publicized price increase last year of the anti-parasitic drug Daraprim by Turing Pharmaceuticals and its former CEO Martin Shkreli. "This is not about just the smirking face of one smug bad boy who engineered a 5,000 percent overnight price hike. … It is a pervasive, industrywide problem," he said. Doggettnoted concerns in Texas about new drugs costing more than $300 a month for routine conditions such as diabetes. "Major pharmaceutical companies have become giant marketing operations, expert at defending their monopoly pricing, expert at public relations, expert at avoiding taxes and wielding political influence," he said in the speech. March-in rights Doggettand allies are pressing the government to exercise so-called "march-in" rights, aptly named because it would amount to an aggressive action that hasn't been invoked since the law enabling it passed in 1980. If determined that a pharmaceutical developed with federally funded research is not sufficiently available, the National Institutes of Health could essentially ignore a patent and grant additional licenses for that drug. In letters this year, Doggett and allies urged the Health and Human Services Department to issue official guidance on the march-in authority, in effect warning manufacturers prone to exorbitant pricing. On March 28, Doggett took the lead in pressing the government to hold march-in hearings on an expensive drug for prostate cancer. The drug, Xtandi, was developed at the University of California-Los Angeles with research that the National Institutes of Health and the Army helped fund. It is jointly marketed by Medivation Inc. of San Francisco and the Japanese company Astellas Pharma Inc. Doggettnoted in a letter to government agencies that the drug, sold in Japan and Sweden for $39,000 for a year's treatment and in Canada for $30,000, is priced in the United States at $129,000. Tepis response The federal agencies have not been receptive. In a response addressed to Doggett, Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell was non-committal, saying the march-in authority "is strictly limited" and that its use had been rejected three times since 2004. Doggettalso is seeking action from the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute, a little-known entity established in the 2010 Affordable Care Act. The nonprofit, funds research projects aimed at producing wise decisions about health care treatments. It receives $500 million yearly from a $2 tax on every health insurance policy on top of $150 million annually from the Treasury. Doggett, after marshaling 39 other House members, told PCORI in a recent letter that it needs to invest more of that money in research about effectiveness of many pharmaceuticals - and then put out that information in consumer-friendly fashion. Dr. Joe Selby, PCORI executive director, said the institute has been shifting money to drug research and how to better communicating those findings to people would be taken up soon at a board meeting. Doggett, told of that reply, remarked: "Sounds to me like a typical bureaucratic response."
05.13.2016	Patients should not have to pay out-of-pocket for a health care provider unexpectedly outside their insurance coverage network. My bill, the End Surprise Billing Act, would help safeguard families’ finances from surprise medical bills. Andy Pierrotti with KVUE ran a story on this unfair practice. KVUE ABC - BuyER Beware: Surprise medical bills By Andy Pierrotti Posted May 12, 2016 Investigative reporters from dozens of Tegna-owned TV stations interviewed patients who received a surprise medical bill within the past few years. One of those patients is Heather Edwards. The 30-year-old mother of two pays more than $800 a month for health insurance. In October, Edwards admitted herself into a hospital near Marble Falls, Texas after her 103 degree fever would not subside. According to her insurance provider, Humana, the emergency room was an in-network facility. A doctor determined she had a viral infection and gave her antibiotics. She later paid a small co-pay for the visit. "I felt miserable. I felt like I got hit by bus," Edwards. Three months later she received a surprise bill for $588. It was from the doctor who treated her, who wasn’t covered by Edwards’ insurance. "I didn’t go in asking or thinking I’d have to ask the physician, the treating physician would be in my network. I really did not think that would be a question I would have to ask," said Edwards. "It’s very frustrating." It happened to Anastasia Galinato too. The Chesapeake, Virginia resident says she was shocked when she got four separate bills for one outpatient procedure. Galinato ended up owing healthcare providers $3,480 for a five-hour hospital stay. She thought she asked all the right questions beforehand and was under the impression her procedure was all in-network. She learned after-the-fact, the anesthesiologist in the operating room was out-of-network. “I was able to scrounge up a little bit extra every month so that I didn't have to take food from my kids' mouths, so that I didn't have to be stranded because there's no gas in the car, but not everybody has that luxury,” Galinato said. Both patients are victims of what’s called surprise “balance billing.” It typically happens when a patient goes to a hospital, covered by their insurance, but later learn the physician who treated them is out of their network. The patient is then responsible for paying the balance of the bill their insurance doesn’t pay. That’s why it’s called “balance billing” and it’s all legal. Stacy Pogue is a senior policy analyst at the Center for Public Policy Priorities in Austin, Texas. Last year, the bipartisan group found with some insurance companies, up to 50 percent of Texas Hospitals do not have one single doctor on staff covered by patients’ insurance. "So, there's very little planning somebody can do in advance around an emergency. That's why we need good laws in place to protect consumers in emergencies,” said Pogue. At least twenty-four states have some kind of limited protection to help consumers prevent or pay surprise medical bills. A Texas congressman, though, wants a federal law to make surprise billing illegal in all states. In 2015, Congressman Lloyd Doggett of Texas authored the “End Surprise Billing Act.” If passed, it would prevent balanced billing during emergencies; provide 24-hour notice of out-of-network providers and require providers give consumers a cost estimate. "[Patients] are going to an in-network hospital, they ought not to have to foot a bill that is the result of a conflict between hospitals, insurers and physicians," said Doggett. Industry trade groups, like the American Hospital Association (AHA), would not say whether it supports Doggett’s bill. A spokesperson from AHA emailed to say the organization supports a “structured mediation model” to help consumers. Mediation helps consumers after they receive the surprise bill. It doesn’t prevent it. AHA says it has also joined a taskforce called the Patient Financial Interactions Best Practices Project, a multi-stakeholder group of healthcare providers trying to improve billing transparency.
05.11.2016	I was pleased to have the opportunity to celebrate Amalgamated Transit Union Local 694's 100th anniversary. Thank you for your service to our community and thank you to Local Chapter President Dan Rodriguez for his many years of service.
05.10.2016	Another great Cinco de Mayo celebration with El Centro Cultural Hispano de San Marcos at Cuauhtemoc Hall with many longtime friends like Ofelia Vasquez-Philo and new friends like Mariana Zamora from Texas State.
05.10.2016	Highlands High Senior wins Congressional High School Art Competition Pictured Left to Right: Highlands High School Principal Derrick Cade, Dr. Sarah Gould, Institute of Texan Cultures, Adriana Gallego, Deputy Director of the National Association of Latino Arts and Cultures, Rosa and Jose Pinedo, 2016 Congressional Art Competition Winner Oscar Pinedo, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett, and Art Teacher Annette Hoffman San Antonio, Texas– Local arts leaders and SAISD Trustee Art Valdez, joined a celebration for Oscar Pinedo, a graduating senior at Highlands High School in San Antonio, who was the winner of U.S. Representative Lloyd Doggett’s (D-San Antonio) annual Congressional High School Art Competition –the first such winner from Highlands High School. Oscar’s original piece, It’s Getting Pretty Western Out Here, featuring his father riding a horse, will hang in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. for a full year, providing him with national exposure as he represents San Antonio. Following graduation, Oscar plans to attend Palo Alto College where he will major in business and minor in art.
05.10.2016	During my recent trip to San Marcos, I stopped by the San Marcos Daily Record to discuss some of the issues we continue to face in Hays County. You can read about my efforts to spend our flood recovery dollars wisely and some of my other priorities in D.C. in the article below: Doggett ready for challenges to come By David Short, San Marcos Daily Record Posted May 8, 2016 Though much of the nation’s political stories are focused on the presidential election this year, members of Congress are out hitting their districts to remind voters that they too are up for re-election. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, one of three U.S. House members whose districts slice through Hays County, was in San Marcos on Thursday. Doggett escaped the Democratic primary without a challenger and will face, for the third consecutive time, Republican Susan Narvaiz in the November general election. Following last year’s two devastating floods here, Doggett worked in Congress to get aid to this area, including a recently announced $25 million. “I’m delighted with the success of dollars coming in for flood recovery,” he said. “There are still significant needs here. The area must also develop here in a way that doesn’t contribute to future floods.” Doggett said there had been discussion about another “water development resources act” that might come up for a vote later this year but that he is not sure if the Blanco River is included in it. Reminded about how his predecessor U.S. Rep. J.J. “Jake” Pickle had been able to get funds to construct dams on watersheds of Purgatory and Sink creeks, which have effectively helped protect much of San Marcos including downtown, Doggett said those were accomplished with “earmarks on bills,” something that can’t be done today. “After the infamous ‘bridge to nowhere’ (in Alaska) earmarks were taken away in the legislative process,” he said. Another area of concern for the long time congressman is pharmaceutical prices. “Even with good insurance, people are still getting hit with several hundred dollars in copays like on drugs necessary for cancer treatment. It has made getting cancer almost a sure road to filing bankruptcy,” Doggett said. He also said he wanted to see a better funding stream for child abuse prevention and the caseworkers needed to help, more awareness of climate change and the impacts like the Zika virus from mosquitos, lower interest rates for college student loans and more STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) activities for younger students.
05.02.2016	We shouldn’t let corporations ‘take the money and run’ when American families and small businesses pay the price for their price gouging and tax dodging. If the Supreme Court is right that ‘corporations are people too,’ then tax law should reflect it. American citizens who renounce their citizenship pay an exit tax; businesses who look to abandon our country should as well. I introduced the Corporate EXIT Fairness Act to be sure expatriating corporations pay the taxes they owe when they leave. This article below discusses the need for legislation like the bill I introduced: Making Corporations Pay What They Owe Before They Go By Richard Phillips, Citizens for Tax Justice Posted May 2, 2016 We all know you shouldn’t leave a restaurant without paying your bill. Unfortunately, our corporate tax laws don’t adhere to this principle, and allow corporations to exit the United States (at least on paper) without paying their full tax bill. New legislation introduced in the U.S. House last week by Texas Rep. Lloyd Doggett would halt this corporate “dine and ditch” practice by requiring any company that claims foreign residency for tax purposes to immediately pay taxes it owes on offshore income. Doggett’s aptly named “Corporate EXIT Fairness Act” comes at a time when U.S. companies are increasingly taking advantage of a tax code provision called deferral, which allows companies to defer paying taxes on offshore income until it is repatriated back to the United States. A recent report from Citizens for Tax Justice (CTJ) found that companies are now deferring an estimated $695 billion in taxes on $2.4 trillion in accumulated offshore earnings. While deferral provides companies with a very generous tax benefit, many are not satisfied and have sought to permanently exempt their offshore income from U.S. taxes through inversion, a process in which a U.S. company merges with a smaller foreign company and claims the newly merged company is managed from the overseas address. Because the new combined company is domiciled in a foreign country, current law allows that company to have nearly full access to its untaxed offshore profits without having to pay anything it owed on these profits. In other words, our current system creates a huge incentive for companies to invert by allowing them to permanently avoid paying taxes on their accumulated offshore earnings. Doggett’s proposal would take away this tax advantage by requiring that companies settle the taxes they owe before they leave. The idea of imposing an exit tax on companies would bring the corporate tax code closer to the individual tax code. When individuals decide to expatriate, the tax laws already sensibly require them to pay any deferred taxes owed on capital gains that they have deferred paying. Although not specified in detail, Hillary Clinton has also proposed an exit tax as part of her presidential campaign that mirrors Doggett’s proposal. One thing that distinguishes Doggett’s latest proposal from an earlier incarnation and a related bill in the Senate is that it would apply the exit tax to all expatriating companies rather than just those that meet the definition of an inversion. This change represents a significant improvement because it would eliminate the tax incentive to expatriate across the board. In addition, this legislation includes language from the Stop Corporate Inversions Act, which would not allow inverted companies to be considered foreign if they are still majority owned by stockholders of the original U.S. company. The damage from offshore tax avoidance and corporate inversions is growing. Congress can and should put an end to these practices. Enacting the Corporate EXIT Fairness Act would be a good start.
04.26.2016	In this article, Nicholas Kristof of the New York Times calls on Congress to pass my bill, the Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act, to combat the huge cost of cheating that depletes our Treasury and saps funds for important priorities. Corporate lobbyists, he writes, “get away with murder,” citing an Oxfam report stating “that each $1 the biggest companies spent on lobbying was associated with $130 in tax breaks and more than $4,000 in federal loans, loan guarantees and bailouts.” I will keep working to overcome Republican obstructionism that rigs that tax system and exacerbates inequality. The New York Times: The Real Welfare Cheats By Nicholas Kristof Posted April 14, 2016 We often hear how damaging welfare dependency is, stifling initiative and corroding the human soul. So I worry about the way we coddle executives in their suites. A study to be released Thursday says that for each dollar America’s 50 biggest companies paid in federal taxes between 2008 and 2014, they received $27 back in federal loans, loan guarantees and bailouts. Goodness! What will that do to their character? Won’t that sap their initiative? The study was compiled by Oxfam and it comes on top of a mountain of evidence from international agencies and economic journals underscoring the degree to which major companies have rigged the tax code. O.K., O.K., I know you see the words “tax code” and your eyes desperately scan for something else to read! Anything about a sex scandal? But hold on: The tax system is rigged against us precisely because taxation is the Least Sexy Topic on Earth. So we doze, and our pockets get picked. John Oliver has a point when he says, “If you want to do something evil, put it inside something boring.” The beneficiaries of tax distortions are counting on you to fall asleep, but this is a topic as important as it is dry. It’s because the issues seem arcane that corporate lobbyists get away with murder. The Oxfam report says that each $1 the biggest companies spent on lobbying was associated with $130 in tax breaks and more than $4,000 in federal loans, loan guarantees and bailouts. And why would a humanitarian nonprofit like Oxfam spend its time poring over offshore accounts and tax dodges? “The global economic system is becoming increasingly rigged” in ways that exacerbate inequality, laments Ray Offenheiser, president of Oxfam America. One academic study found that tax dodging by major corporations costs the U.S. Treasury up to $111 billion a year. By my math, less than one-fifth of that annually would be more than enough to pay the additional costs of full-day prekindergarten for all 4-year-olds in America ($15 billion), prevent lead poisoning in tens of thousands of children ($2 billion), provide books and parent coaching for at-risk kids across the country ($1 billion) and end family homelessness ($2 billion). The Panama Papers should be a wake-up call, shining a light on dysfunctional tax codes around the world — but much of the problem has been staring us in the face. Among the 500 corporations in the S.&P. 500-stock index, 27 were both profitable in 2015 and paid no net income taxglobally, according to an analysis by USA Today. Those poor companies! Think how the character of those C.E.O.s must be corroding! And imagine the plunging morale as board members realize that they are “takers” not “makers.” American companies game the system in many ways, including shifting profits to overseas tax havens. In 2012, American companies reported more profit in low-tax Bermuda than in Japan, China, Germany and France combined, even though their employees in Bermuda account for less than one-tenth of 1 percent of their worldwide totals. Over all, the share of corporate taxation in federal revenue has declined since 1952 from 32 percent to 11 percent. In that same period, the portion coming from payroll taxes, which hit the working poor, has climbed. Look, the period of the Oxfam study included the auto and banking bailouts, which were good for America (and the loans were repaid); it’s also true that the official 35 percent corporate tax rate in the U.S. is too high, encouraging dodging strategies. But we have created perverse incentives: C.E.O.s have a responsibility to shareholders to make money, and tax dodging accomplishes that. This isn’t individual crookedness but an entire political/economic system that induces companies to rip off fellow citizens quite legally. It’s now widely recognized that corporations have manipulated the tax code. The U.S. Treasury, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, theEuropean Union and professional economic journals are all trying to respond to issues of tax evasion. Bravo to the Obama administration for cracking down on corporations that try to move abroad to get out of taxes. Congress should now pass the Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act, and it should stop slashing the I.R.S. budget (by 17 percent in real terms over the last six years). When congressional Republicans like Ted Cruz denounce the I.R.S., they empower corporate tax cheats. Because of I.R.S. cuts, the amount of time revenue agents spend auditing large companies has fallen by 34 percent since 2010. A Syracuse University analysis finds that the lost revenue from the decline in corporate audits may be as much as $15 billion a year — enough to make full-day pre-K universal. Meanwhile, no need to fret so much about welfare abuse in the inner city. The big problem of welfare dependency in America now involves entitled corporations. So let’s help those moochers in business suits pick themselves up and stop sponging off the government.
04.12.2016	Equal Pay Day serves as a powerful reminder that the pay gap persists. Women still earn just 79 cents for every dollar earned by men – It’s past time for ?#‎EqualPay? for equal work.
04.12.2016	On April 7th, my San Antonio staff participated in the ?#‎CardboardKidsSA? Child Abuse Prevention Campaign to help protect our city’s most vulnerable. In Congress, I remain committed to providing assistance to at-risk families, youth, foster children, and I authored the “Protect Our Kids Act,” which recently issued a report to guide the elimination of child abuse and neglect fatalities nationally.
04.05.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEApril 4, 2016 Contact: Andrew Braswell(202) 225-4865 Progress on Treasury Action Against Corporate Tax Avoidance Washington— U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), a Senior Member of the House Ways and Means Committee, responded to Treasury’s announcement of new guidance related to corporate inversions: “Having made the initial Congressional request for Treasury to use its existing authority to prevent tax dodging shenanigans by Pfizer and others, I am pleased that Treasury has acted. While this tax guidance is not as thorough as it should be, I hope that it will discourage serial inverters like Allergan and thereby the Pfizer merger. Asking this Republican Congress to act against corporate tax cheats is no substitute for comprehensive Administration action to stop corporations from avoiding taxes by renouncing their American charters while retaining the benefits of being American.” Earlier this year, Congressman Doggett led a group of lawmakers in a letter to Treasury Secretary Jack Lew urging the Administration to use its executive authority to deny the tax benefits of corporate inversions. ###
03.29.2016	Monday, March 28, 2016 Rep. Doggett and Lawmakers to NIH and HHS: Act Now on Drug Affordability WASHINGTON, March 28 - A group of Senate and House lawmakers led by Reps. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) and Peter Welch (D-Vt.), co-chairs of the Prescription Drug Taskforce, as well as Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), today urged the Department of Health and Human Services and the National Institutes of Health to step in to lower the cost of a prostate cancer drug, Xtandi, which costs four times more in the United States than in other major countries. “When Americans pay for research that results in a safe and effective drug, an unreasonably high cost should not limit their access to it. New treatments are meaningless if patients cannot afford them,” the lawmakers wrote in a letter to HHS Secretary Sylvia Burwell and NIH Director Francis Collins. In the letter, the members called on NIH to hold a public hearing to consider overriding the patent on Xtandi to make the drug available at a lower price. Under current law, NIH can take this step if federal funds supported a drug’s development and the company is selling it at an unreasonably high price. Xtandi was developed at the University of California, Los Angeles, through taxpayer-supported research grants from the U.S. Army and NIH. The medication, which is sold by Japanese drugmaker Astellas Pharma, has an average wholesale price in the U.S. of more than $129,000. It is sold in Japan and Sweden for $39,000 and in Canada for $30,000. “We do not think that charging U.S. residents more than anyone else in the world meets the obligation to make the invention available to U.S. residents on reasonable terms,” the members wrote. Sanders, Doggett and Welch were joined by Sens. Al Franken (D-Minn.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), as well as Reps. Elijah Cummings (D-Md.), Jan Schakowsky (D-Ill.), Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.) and Mark Pocan (D-Wis.). “When Americans pay for research that results in a pharmaceutical, that drug should be available at a reasonable price,” said Doggett, ranking member of the Subcommittee on Human Resources of the House Ways and Means Committee and co-chair of the House Democratic Caucus Prescription Drug Task Force. “The Administration has said it is prepared to use its existing authority to address this problem on a case-by-case basis; it should do so now with Xtandi. An unaffordable drug is 100 percent ineffective. Americans shouldn’t have to choose between their lives and their livelihoods on this and many other outrageously priced medications.” “The United States government should use every tool available to lower outrageously high prescription drug prices,”Sanders said. “NIH has the power to stop this blatant profiteering and put the pharmaceutical industry on notice that the era of charging unconscionable prices must end.” “Pharmaceutical companies provide good drugs that are life-saving and pain-relieving, but their prices are killing us,” Welch said. “Taxpayers foot a hefty bill so companies like Astellas Pharma can conduct research and improve their drugs. And yet they charged substantially higher prices than patients in other countries for they very drugs produced by that research. The NIH has the authority to step in to end this price gouging and should do so as soon as possible.” “The rising costs of prescription drugs have left families throughout Minnesota and the entire country with the impossible choice of either buying their medications or paying their bills,” said Franken, a member of the Senate Health Committee. “Drug prices are out of control, and I believe we need a comprehensive plan to address this growing problem. One step we can take is to have the Obama Administration crack down on price gouging and use its authority to ensure access to important medications.” To read the letter, click here.
03.29.2016	The San Antonio tech community is on the rise! With Rackspace Hosting, Geekdom, Techbloc, and an increasing number of startups already calling the Alamo City home, good to welcome new Google Fiber office into our downtown neighborhood, across from my San Antonio office. The Rivard Report: Google Fiber Setting up Shop at the Rand By Robert Rivard Posted March 24, 2016 It’s Google Fiber. The mystery tenant that signed a lease for the third and fourth floors of the historic Rand Building, home to Geekdom, Rackspace’s Open Cloud Academy and a number of startups and small tech companies, is a mystery no longer. Google Fiber is planting its flag in downtown San Antonio in the heart of the growing East Houston Street tech district, a company spokesperson confirmed Tuesday. (Read more: Tech Companies Populate Downtown San Antonio.) The Rand Building’s third and fourth floors combined add up to more than 24,000 sq. ft., enough space to accommodate 100 or more workers. The arrival of Google Fiber will bring the 103-year-old Rand Building, purchased in 2013 by Weston Urban and refurbished afterwards, to capacity except for street level retail, which is expected to be announced soon. Google Fiber is expected to hire nationally and locally for its San Antonio operations. A search of “Google Fiber jobs in San Antonio” on the company’s GoogleCareers page turned up a several high level job openings, including the top leadership position of City Manager. Other posted openings include a Network Deployment and Operations (NDO) Program Manager Lead, which also requires substantial management experience and an engineering background, preferably with an understanding of fiber optic networks. Another job posting is for a Sales Strategy and Operations Manager, another management position that includes building and leading a sales force team. All of the management positions suggest advanced degrees are essential or preferred. The arrival of Google Fiber is expected to amplify the interest already building among a growing number of companies with workers who want to relocate some of their offices or operations from outlying areas to the center city. The initial move-in is expected to occur in several months. The Google Fiber service, which was launched in 2012, is currently available in four U.S. cities, according to its online map: Austin, Atlanta, Kansas City, and Provo, UT. San Antonio is one of seven “Upcoming Fiber cities” on the Google Map where the company has confirmed expansion plans. The others are San Francisco, Salt Lake City, Nashville, Huntsville, Ala., and Charlotte and Raleigh-Durham, NC. Eleven cities are on the “potential Fiber city” list: Portland, San Jose, Los Angeles, and Irvine, Calif., Phoenix, Oklahoma City, Chicago, Louisville, Jacksonville, and Tampa. An Aug. 5, 2015 posting on the official Google Fiber blog praised San Antonio growing tech scene: “From starting Bexar BiblioTech, the first all-digital public library in the U.S., to being named a leading city in cybersecurity, San Antonio has developed a thriving tech landscape. Hundreds of startups have found their home in the Alamo City through collaborative workspaces and accelerators like Geekdom and Cafe Commerce. Moreover, San Antonio’s recent selection for President Obama’s Tech Hire and Connect Home initiatives will help create a pipeline of tech jobs and narrow the digital divide. With speeds up to 1,000 megabits per second (mbps), compared to the U.S. average of just 12 Mbps (Akamai, Q1 2015), Google Fiber will further fuel the city’s growth.” Interested in finding out if and when Google Fiber is coming to your neighborhood or commercial district with one gigabyte Internet and TV service? Click here to sign up for the local Google Fiber updates. The company’s website describes a five-phase path to the day when Google Fiber will be activated and available. Exploration is phase one, working with the City of San Antonio on permitting and infrastructure issues involving roads and underground utilities. Design is phase two with every mile of the system planned in advance, based on available space and location of existing utility poles and water, gas, and electricity lines. Construction, phase three, means locals will see Google Fiber workers on city streets many months before Google Fiber will be available. Thousands of miles of fiber optic cable — enough to reach from here to Canada — has to be laid to create the physical network. Sign Up, phrase four, involved Google Fiber measuring demand in what they call “fiberhoods,” meaning they will go first where demand is the highest. Want Google Fiber on your street? You’ll have to recruit everyone else in your “fiberhood” to compete against demand elsewhere. Installation, phase five, will be the final step. This is where technicians connect homes and businesses to the grid and turn on the service. The Google Fiber Map: San Antonio is one of seven on the list of “Upcoming Fiber cities.” Map courtesy of Google Fiber. How long until the service is activated? Too early to tell. A Google spokesperson said each city’s geography and infrastructure is different and results in a different timeline. The company’s website also outlines some of its community-based initiatives and partnerships that will be of interest to civic and community leaders in San Antonio. Those include bringing Google Fiber’s high speed service to public housing projects in partnership with ConnectHome, an initiative of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Obama administration to accelerate connectivity in low-income households with school-age children. San Antonio is one of the ConnectHome cities on the HUD list. Google Fiber’s Community Leaders Program connects tech-savvy college students with volunteer projects in underserved communities. The Digital Inclusion Fellowship is a partnership with the Nonprofit Technology Network in eight Google Fiber cities to create and sustain digital literacy programs and to bring Internet service to some of the 60 million U.S. homes without an Internet connection.
03.29.2016	As a long-time advocate for every American family having access to a family doctor, I’m pleased to celebrate the 6th anniversary of the Affordable Care Act, which has enabled 20 million Americans to obtain the medical care they need at a reasonable price. I have often said that I wish the Affordable Care Act were as good as the opponents of reform say it is bad, and while there are undoubtedly improvements to make, we cannot allow repeal as Republicans obsessively seek.
03.29.2016	Price gouging by drug companies is a growing problem. Despite Americans reporting this as their top health care concern, Republicans refuse to act. Today, I introduced a motion, supported by my Democratic colleagues, to preserve the authority of the Federal Trade Commission to enforce antitrust laws and protect competition in proposed mergers of drug companies. Republicans did not take this chance to act. You can view my floor speech below.
03.29.2016	Today the House passed a modest, bipartisan bill to help foster children find loving homes. This is a welcome improvement, but also serves as a reminder of all the work that remains. There are far too many children in America who suffer from child abuse. The Commission to Eliminate Child Abuse and Neglect Fatalities, established by my Protect Our Kids Act, recently released a report that provides a modest map to prevent these tragedies. But we need Congress to provide the political drive to steer these changes into law and avoid lurching from one tragedy to another.
03.29.2016	Today, dedicated health care professionals visited my Washington D.C. Office. Dr. Mary Hoke, Dean of University of the Incarnate Word Nursing School, and Dr. Eileen Breslin, Dean of the Nursing School at the UT Health Science Center, were joined by colleagues and students to advocate for the Nursing Workforce Development Program and funding of the National Institute of Nursing Research.
03.29.2016	Recently, an immigration judge said he thinks 3-year-olds can learn and apply immigration law. Sadly, this is the type of thinking with which important advocates, like RAICES, must deal with regularly. The following San Antonio Express-News editorial notes recent legislation introduced to provide counsel to children appearing in immigration court. As a sponsor of the House Bill, the Fair Day in Court for Kids Act, I know access to counsel is imperative for those most vulnerable, children. San Antonio Express News: Provide legal counsel to migrant kids By The San Antonio Express News Editorial Board Posted March 13, 2016 Children who are 3 and 4 years old cannot represent themselves in immigration court. These children are of an age in which language, brain development and social skills are still being actively formed. That the above defense of migrant children has to be made is because Jack H. Weil, a longtime immigration judge, essentially made the claim in a deposition in federal court in Seattle. The American Civil Liberties Union and a coalition of immigrant rights organizations are suing the federal government to provide legal counsel to migrant children, a need heightened by the recent influx of children, accompanied and unaccompanied, fleeing murder, violence and privation in their Central American countries — principally Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala. Weil later said the comments were taken out of context and were part of hours-long sworn testimony in the deposition. But it seems clear that in the deposition, he said he has taught children that age immigration laws and, while not ideal, they can be made to understand. Federal law does not provide for government-provided legal counsel in immigration proceedings — for adults or children. But it does require “full and fair hearings.” Not providing legal counsel in these proceedings for children stretches the definition of “fair” beyond recognition. The federal government has bent a bit, finding that many Central American migrants — adults and children — could demonstrate “credible fears” for their well-being should they be returned to their countries. Immigrant advocates say most who are successful in staying are those with legal representation, generally pro bono from advocacy groups. These groups, however, are stretched to sustain this level of representation and not every Central American migrant gets it. Providing this kind of help to at least the children would make these proceedings fuller and fairer. Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid and others have introduced a bill that would require legal representation for these children and for victims of abuse, torture or other violence. Under the bill, the Department of Homeland Security would also have to ensure that detainees know their rights and responsibilities under the law. Unfortunately, it is unlikely to become law in the last year of the Obama presidency. The federal government should stop fighting this suit and reach a settlement to give them legal representation.
03.17.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 17, 2016 Contact: Andrew Braswell (202) 225-4865 HHS Urged to Ensure Medicare Beneficiaries Know All Prescription Drug Payment Options Washington— Today, U.S. Representative Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) urged the Department of Health and Human Services to implement guidance to ensure Medicare beneficiaries have greater access to all their drug payment options to get the best price. Currently, some Medicare Part D drug plans prohibit a pharmacist from providing certain cost information, unless the senior knows to ask for it. Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT) joined Mr. Doggett in the request; the two are co-chairs of the House Democratic Caucus Prescription Drug Task Force. Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), the Ranking Member of the Labor, Health, Human Services, and Education Appropriations Subcommittee, and Rep. Mark Pocan (D-WI), a leading House progressive, also joined. The representatives were supported by patient advocate group Consumers Union. Rep. Doggett, Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Human Resources, said: “We must take all steps possible to ensure seniors can easily access information that will help them purchase prescriptions at the best price. If we are serious about making medications more affordable, implementing this guidance is the least we can do.” Patient advocates at Consumers Union supported the congressional request: “Given how many Americans struggle to pay for needed medications, the burden of finding the lowest possible price shouldn't rest on consumers' shoulders," says Betsy Imholz, Special Projects Director for Consumers Union, the advocacy and policy division of nonprofit Consumer Reports. "Pharmacists must not be prohibited from alerting patients if there is a better deal that falls outside their insurance coverage.” A recent AARP study examined how retail prices for widely used prescription drugs are increasing, far outpacing inflation. A copy of the Members’ letter can be found here. ###
03.14.2016	My wife Libby and I were pleased to join Judge Nelson Wolff, Suzanne Scott, theArtsFund, Wolf Trap, and Kathy Bruck with Pre-K 4 SA to announce a new initiative for arts based learning. San Antonio is alive with the arts and artists eager to share their talents with our youngest learners.
03.14.2016	Our nation has a responsibility to uphold the promise of Social Security and Medicare for our seniors. This past year I remained resolute in my support of seniors and earned 100% on The Alliance for Retired Americans Seniors Scorecard for voting to protect these critical safety nets. You can see the full scorecard, and the rest of the Texas delegation scores here.
03.14.2016	I joined some of my Democratic colleagues in filing an amicus brief today in the U.S. Supreme Court supporting the President’s executive actions on immigration, urging the Court to affirm the legality of the pro-family actions. As you may know, the Court announced it will review the lawsuit led by Governor Abbott, which has halted the President’s actions for more than a year. The litigation is only adding uncertainty to the lives of many of our neighbors. All of Texas will benefit from permitting our DREAMers to fulfill their dreams and from families staying together.
03.14.2016	Kick off for great San Antonio ISD/Trinity University Pre K–12 Academy. Dynamic new Superintendent Pedro Martinez and his Team of 8 including— Trustees Olga Hernandez, Patti Raddle, Steve Lecholop, Ed Garza, James Howard, and Debra Guerrero—are offering innovative approaches to strengthening public education. State Senator José Menéndez, Mayor Ivy R. Taylor, Trinity University President Danny Anderson and many of our local education leaders were joined by inspiring remarks from student Zion Minor.
03.14.2016	This morning, Libby and I welcomed to our home a number of Central Texas public education leaders including AISD Superintendent Dr. Paul Cruz, our daughters, Jacquie Porter, AISD Early Childhood Director, and Lockhart ISD trustees Michael Wright and Jon Reyes. Libby has been working with SXSWedu to increase the focus on early learning. She is presenting along with Jill Levine, Principal of Normal Park Museum Magnet School and Principal in Residence at the US Department of Education. Also great to visit with Del Valle I.S.D. trustee Ann Heuberger and San Marcos CISD trustees Margie Villalpando and Ann Halsey After a quick cup of coffee, I headed to a San Antonio ISD celebration.
03.14.2016	As we celebrate ?‎International Women's Day? and recognize leaders who are pushing the boundaries for women around the world, let’s also recommit to securing women’s economic, social, and political equality here at home. Today, I joined the City of San Antonio and the Mayor’s Commission on the Status of Women to celebrate many local achievements.
03.11.2016	I was honored to join Mayor Adler, Chief Acevedo, survivors, supporters, and members of our community at Illuminate ATX to benefit SafePlace, an important organization which provides shelter and essential services to survivors of domestic and sexual violence in Austin.
03.11.2016	Congressman Lloyd Doggett joined Mayor Adler, Mayor Pro Tem Tovo and the Austin Parks Foundation for It's My Park Day to kickoff a day of service. Austin is fortunate to have so many great parks, trails and green spaces that are supported by the work of so many dedicated volunteers across the city.
03.11.2016	Rep. Doggett on this ruling - "Texans can breathe easier knowing that the biggest air polluters in the state must clean up their operations. As a neighbor once told me ‘Breathing isn’t an option!" The Hill: Chief Justice Rejects Plea To Block Air Pollution Rule By Timothy Cama - 03/03/16 10:35 AM EST Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts rejected a plea Thursday to block a contentious air pollution rule for power plants in a big victory for the Obama administration. Roberts’s order came despite his court’s 5-4 decision last year ruling that the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) regulation, known as the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards, is illegal. Michigan led a group of 20 states last month — empowered by the Supreme Court’s recent unprecedented decision to halt the EPA’s carbon dioxide rule for power plants — in asking the court to live up to its ruling last year and block the regulation’s enforcement. “Unless this court stays or enjoins further operation of the Mercury and Air Toxics rule, this court’s recent decision in Michigan v. EPA will be thwarted,” the states wrote in a Feb. 23 filing with the court. “A stay or injunction is appropriate because this court has already held that the finding on which the rule rests in unlawful and beyond EPA’s statutory authority.” The EPA responded that no judicial stay is necessary since it’s working to fix the problem the court identified by next month, and the states would not suffer irreparable harm in that time. “The requested stay would harm the public interest by undermining reliance interests and the public health and environmental benefits associated with the rule,” the government said. “The application lacks merit and should be denied.” Roberts acted swiftly, waiting less than a day after the EPA’s response brief to side with the Obama administration. He acted unilaterally, electing to reject the request himself rather than take it to the full court, which may have led to a 4-4 split following Justice Antonin Scalia’s death. The mercury pollution standards, made final in 2012, are a separate regulation from the more controversial and costly carbon dioxide limits for power plants that are also being litigated in court. The Supreme Court put an unprecedented halt to the carbon rule, known as the Clean Power Plan, last month by a 5-4 vote, when Roberts chose to let the full court vote on the matter. Thursday’s action by Roberts is completely separate from that case. EPA spokeswoman Melissa Harrison said on Thursday the agency is “very pleased” with Roberts’s order. “These practical and achievable standards cut harmful pollution from power plants, saving thousands of lives each year and preventing heart and asthma attacks,” she said, adding that the agency’s calculations show $9 in health benefits for every dollar in compliance costs for the regulation. Harrison confirmed that the EPA next month plans to finalize a fix to the rule to retroactively apply its cost-benefit analysis in the way the Supreme Court said was necessary. The court ruled last June that the EPA should have conducted a cost-benefit analysis on the regulation before it even decided to start writing it. The agency did so as part of the regulatory process, but the justices said that was not sufficient. The Supreme Court did not overturn the rule at the time, and the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit said in December that the EPA could keep enforcing it. Environmental groups were pleased with Roberts’s decision. “It is time to end this damaging litigation and to protect our children from the poisons in our air and water,” said Vickie Patton, general counsel for the Environmental Defense Fund, which participated in the case to help the EPA, along with other green and health groups and some states. “The Mercury and Air Toxics Standards are safeguarding millions of American children from poisons such as mercury, arsenic and acid gases,” she said. Michigan and its allies opposing the rule could still try to seek a full-court review of Roberts’s decision.
03.11.2016	Congressman Lloyd Doggett recently received the highest score in Texas on the League of Conservation Voters Scorecard with a 97% rating. The Congressman said he was "pleased to receive the highest League of Conservation Voters rating in the Texas delegation for 2015, and maintain my 97% lifetime score for pro-environment votes." You can view the full scorecard here.
02.25.2016	House Democrats Urge Administration to Take Immediate Action to Stop Corporate Inversions following Report on Extent of Pfizer Tax Dodging and Price Gouging Washington— Today, several Democratic Members of Congress, along with the Executive Director of Americans for Tax Fairness, Frank Clemente, released a major new report on the extent of Pfizer’s tax dodging and price gouging, as well as a letterto Treasury Secretary Jack Lew urging the Administration to use its executive authority to deny the tax benefits of the proposed corporate inversion. Seven senators, led by Assistant Majority Leader Dick Durbin, sent a similar letterto Secretary Lew today as well. “Pfizer is not only America’s biggest pharmaceutical company, but also one of our biggest tax dodgers and price gougers. To finagle even more tax avoidance, Pfizer now wants to renounce its American citizenship. While Pfizer wants to pay lower Irish taxes, it refuses to charge Americans lower Irish drug prices,” said Congressman Lloyd Doggett. “Today we are issuing a formal plea for specific Administration action, backed up with line and verse regarding how that can be accomplished. The US Treasury is suffering from a form of severe bleeding that no overpriced Pfizer medication can stop, but to the Administration, we say use existing law, ‘heal thyself.’” “As if gouging the American people with overpriced prescription drugs wasn’t enough, Pfizer is now trying to dodge $35 billion in taxes. You can’t make this up.” said Rep. Peter Welch. “Pharmaceutical companies provide good drugs that are life-saving and pain-reliving, but their prices are killing us. And now, Pfizer wants to pay Irish taxes but they won’t give Americans Irish drug prices. The Administration should throw a monkey wrench into Pfizer’s plan, stat.” “American taxpayers are fed up with big corporations shifting their tax obligations onto working families because Congress has failed to close the egregious inversion loophole,” said Representative Chris Van Hollen. “We cannot continue to allow companies to shortchange hard working Americans simply by changing their mailing address. We must work to end this egregious loophole and the tax games inverted companies play using every means at our disposal.” Pfizer—maker of Celebrex, Lipitor, Lyrica, and Viagra—is attempting to permanently dodge an estimated $35 billion of U.S. taxes it currently owes by merging with Allergan, a drug firm based in Ireland, according to a new Americans for Tax Fairness report that was released today. The report also documents a rapid rise in Pfizer’s prescription drug prices in recent years, and it compares the vast difference in the prices Pfizer charges for the same drugs in the U.S. and in Ireland, the country to which it is changing its corporate address. “By dodging taxes while boosting prescription drug prices, Pfizer squeezes American families and communities from two sides at once,” said Americans for Tax Fairness Executive Director Frank Clemente. “In the company’s biggest insult to America yet, Pfizer’s merger would allow it to go on enjoying all the benefits of being based here—everything from a publicly-educated workforce, to an excellent communications infrastructure, to a reliable patent system—without adequately paying to support them.” “We cannot continue to allow Pfizer and other corporations to pretend that they are American companies, reaping the benefits this country has to offer, all while claiming to be another nationality when the tax bill comes,” said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03). “Corporations are cheating the American people out of revenue that could make a real difference in the lives of children and families, so that they can dodge taxes and gouge prices. The Administration must take action, but Congress also needs to work to stop inversions. We must do better.” “As a small business owner for over 29 years, I am especially concerned about big corporations that pay their accountants rather than paying their taxes,” said Representative Mark Pocan (WI-02). “Main street businesses play by the rules and pay their fair share continue footing the bill for offshore tax dodging corporations. This is exactly the sort of egregious corporate activity undermines the U.S. tax base and our economy and we urge the Administration to crack down on it.” The tax benefits of these corporate inversions could be denied if Treasury revises a Notice it issued in 2014 intended to remove costly tax breaks U.S. companies receive when they merge or invert with a foreign company based in a tax haven. Johnson Controls had $8.1 billion in offshore profits in 2015 on which it will likely be able to avoid paying U.S. income taxes should the proposed merger be completed. “What Pfizer is doing to the American taxpayer is not only unfair, it’s unpatriotic. Our country invests in research and innovation,” said Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky. “We invest in education. Those public investments are major reason why companies like Pfizer find the workforce they need and develop new drugs. This new report from Americans for Tax Fairness shows how Pfizer takes advantage of all of this public investment, gouges consumers on drug prices and then seeks to move its profits overseas to avoid taxes while still reaping the rewards of public investment in the United States. This is simply unacceptable.” ###
02.12.2016	Congressman Doggett "American taxpayers are getting ripped off, and Republicans don’t want you to know how much. Corporations that renounce their American citizenship to dodge taxes are not only putting more of the tax burden on American businesses and families. They are also adding substantially to our national debt. Today, I introduced a motion supported by my Democratic colleagues to tell the public just how much we are losing from tax loopholes." Watch the whole video here:
02.11.2016	The President’s Budget indicates that the “Administration is deeply concerned about rapidly growing prescription drug prices.”I believe it is essential that the Administration use every bit of authority it has under existing law to prevent price gouging. Financial ruin for the sick and dying is not the way to cure cancer or other dread diseases.
02.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following multiple reports of widespread and systematic bribery of politicians and policymakers across Central and East Africa by British American Tobacco (BAT), U.S. Representative Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) and U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) are calling for an immediate investigation of BAT—the world’s second largest publicly-traded tobacco corporation. In a letter to the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), the lawmakers argue BAT’s actions may have violated both the Anti-Bribery and the Books and Records provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). Additional signatories of the letter include: Sen. Markey (D-MA), Sen. Merkley (D-OR), Sen. Reed (D-RI), Rep. Tsongas (D-MA), Rep. Conyers (D-MI), Rep. Keating (D-MA) and Rep. Nadler (D-NY). Since the release of a BBC documentary that first brought attention to BAT’s alleged actions, additional documents have come to light, showing the bribery may be even more widespread. The documents indicate BAT may have paid people off to protect its corporate reputation and cover up scandals like environmental damage caused by a warehouse fire in Uganda, and even engaged in corporate espionage and sabotage of competitor tobacco corporations in Kenya. “If true, these allegations would demonstrate a deplorable choice by BAT to balloon its profits through bribery at the expense of the health of millions,” said Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX). “Any corporation that enjoys the benefits of our stock exchange must comply with our anti-bribery laws.” “If true, the allegations lodged against BAT are an affront to public health and United States law,” said Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), who sits on the Judiciary Committee, which oversees the FCPA. “The tobacco industry has a long history of placing profits above public health, and these allegations raise clear questions about whether BAT violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act – a question DOJ must answer. With tobacco companies exploiting growth opportunities in Africa, actions like BAT’s threaten to undermine the WHO’s global tobacco treaty and condemn the entire continent to generations of smoking, cancer, and preventable death.” The lawmakers note that, if true, these allegations would show that BAT, which holds a 42 percent share of U.S.-based Reynolds American, Inc., attempted to unduly influence and interfere in the World Health Organization’s global tobacco treaty (to which the U.S. is a signatory) and public health policymaking at the national level throughout Africa. Tobacco-related disease causes 6 million deaths each year, making tobacco the largest preventable cause of death worldwide. The treaty, which protects over 90 percent of the world’s population, has the potential to save 200 million lives by 2050 if fully implemented. With the number of adult smokers in Africa projected to grow from 77 million in 2013 to 572 million by 2100, Africa will be the epicenter of the tobacco epidemic if BAT and others are successful in thwarting the immediate implementation of public health policies. “In the 1990’s, the public health movement exposed Big Tobacco’s lies about nicotine’s addictiveness and tobacco’s links to cancer, sparking a cascade of litigation and U.S. tobacco control policies,” said John Stewart, Deputy Campaigns Director of Corporate Accountability International. “This investigation could be the next critical chapter in holding this deadly industry accountable for its abuses, preventing the expansion of the single largest preventable epidemic on the planet.” Congressman Doggett, one of the lead sponsors of the letter, has a history of taking on Big Tobacco, securing the so-called Doggett Amendment, which ensures taxpayer funds are not used to promote the sale or export of tobacco products.
02.09.2016	I have requested that the Postal Service issue two distinct series of commemorative stamps, one set for each San Antonio Mission, and another to honor the 300th anniversary of the founding of the Alamo, in 2018. These two series of commemorative stamps would be an appropriate way to celebrate these internationally-recognized treasures and San Antonio’s Tricentennial. See the full text of my letter below: February 1, 2016 The Honorable Megan J. Brennan Postmaster General, US Postal Service Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee 475 L’Enfant Plaza SW 475 L’Enfant Plaza SW Room 10802 Room 3300 Washington, DC 20260-0010 Washington, DC 20260-3501 Dear Postmaster General Brennan and Members of the Committee: I write to request the issuance of two distinct series of commemorative stamps, one set as soon as possible for each San Antonio Mission, and another to honor the 300th anniversary of the founding of San Antonio in 2018. Last year, the five San Antonio Missions were designated as World Heritage sites by UNESCO. This respected designation marks the first time that a Texas site has been deemed of "outstanding cultural or natural importance to the common heritage of humanity." The Spanish Missions, of which the Alamo is best known, are truly exceptional. The Missions National Historic Park preserves the largest collection of Spanish colonial resources anywhere in the United States. One can learn more about the unique historical and cultural purpose of each San Antonio Mission and see each Mission that could be placed on an individual stamp at www.missionsofsanantonio.org. The Missions are important to the understanding of Texas and the development of the United States. The Alamo lies just north of these four missions that compose the Missions National Historical Park. All of them date back to the 1600s and 1700s, the oldest one to 1690, and they were built when the first of six flags flew over Texas. These two distinctive series of commemorative stamps that honor the San Antonio Missions and the 300th anniversary of the founding of San Antonio would be an appropriate way to celebrate these internationally-recognized treasures. Thank you for your consideration of this request, and I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Lloyd Doggett
02.09.2016	"I’m all for taking the bull by the horns, but just not for more bull, of which we hear a lot in Congress. This week, the Ways and Means Committee met to discuss policies to deliver opportunities for all Americans – great in name, but unfortunately a far cry from the reality of a tax code engineered over many decades of lobbying for loopholes to further advantage the advantaged. Instead of perpetuating inequality through a broken tax code, we need to level the playing field for small businesses and working families." Watch his full comments here:
01.11.2016	CAP commends the more than 50 lawmakers in the House who recognize that enough is enough when it comes to the skyrocketing costs of pharmaceuticals. For months now, public opinion polls have shown that consumers, regardless of their political affiliation, are demanding reforms to lower drug prices. One such road to reform is to implement strong executive actions that will help lower costs, improve public health, and jump-start innovation. The National Institutes of Health, or NIH, is at the front line of innovation in the health care and medical fields. It’s only fair to the American people that HHS finally sets official guidelines on “march-in rights” for the licensing of patents that resulted from federally funded NIH research but are now owned by pharmaceutical companies. If a drug company price-gouges, taxpayers should not have to pay twice—once for the research and again for the excessive price. In such a case, it’s time to unleash market competition by allowing other companies to market the drug. Read the letter from members of Congress here. In September, CAP released a set of integrated reforms that challenged lawmakers and public officials to make halting the rising cost of prescription drugs a priority for the year ahead. In the report, CAP offers new policy recommendations on how to lower costs for consumers, bring about transparency to the pharmaceutical industry, and encourage innovation through rewarding drugs that show a measurable benefit to patients, including a range of options that are available without the need for any new federal legislation. Related resources: Enough Is Enough: The Time Has Come to Address Sky-High Drug Prices by Topher Spiro, Maura Calsyn, and Thomas Huelskoetter ###
01.08.2016	In response to the 62nd vote in the House to repeal the Affordable Health Care Act, Rep. Lloyd Doggett said: "Of all the pressing issues facing our families at home and abroad, House Republicans continue to pursue their radical agenda of taking away health care from millions of Americans. They did the same when they first took recontrol of the House in 2011. That was the first vote to repeal the Affordable Health Care Act. Today’s bill represents their 62nd vote to repeal or undermine it. And, in all that time, they have failed to advance any meaningful alternative legislation. Once again, it is clear that the only alternative to Obamacare is Nothingcare."
01.08.2016	FEMA has now opened a Disaster Recovery Center in Caldwell County. The DRC is located at Allen Bates River Park at the intersection of FM 1979 and Fannin Street in Martindale. Hours are 9am to 6pm Monday through Friday and 9am to 2pm on Saturday. Find more info or apply for assistance at disasterassistance.gov or by calling 800-621-3362. TTY users should call 800-462-7585.
12.16.2015	by: Paul Flahive The big story, the one that made news directors perk up their ears, made congressmen call hearings, and made jaws drop across the country was the story about a 62 year-old drug - a senior citizen of a drug - called Daraprim that overnight went from $13.50 a tablet to $750 a tablet. A 5000% increase for no other reason than a company called Turing Pharmaceuticals bought the drug and raised the price because it could. The drug is used to treat malaria, HIV, and other infections. Overnight the story of the cost surges in drugs was no longer about new drugs, but about all drugs, even old ones. A long known problem with drug pricing practices had coalesced around a single action. The murky world of drug pricing lacks transparency and according to Congressman Lloyd Doggett it lacks many elements of what make up a free market. "The problem is we don't have a free market, we have a monopoly market," says Doggett. "What we need is more competition and more information for consumers." The congressman has launched a task force to investigate the high prices, something that the U.S. Senate has also done. These kinds of investigations can often shed some light how decisions are made and how an industry is run. Congressional investigations and hearings are nothing new to the pharmaceutical industry. In fact, 50 years ago a Kentucky Democrat named Estes Kefauver held several hearings that had incredible impact says Medical historian Jeremy Greene "It was really an amazing and eye-opening investigation. He used the power of the subpoena to bring executives of pharmaceutical companies as well as the head of the AMA and FDA and the U.S. patent and trademark office into the congressional hearings," says Greene. "Previously obscure pricing and marketing practices of the industry became visible to the American people to then act upon" What can we do today to reign in drug costs? Guests: Rep. Lloyd Doggett, U.S. Congressman from Texas' 35th district Leigh Purvis, Director of Health Services Research at AARP Katie Verb, Associate Director of Policy & Government Relations for the Hemophilia Federation of America Dr. Jeremy Greene, Associate Professor of Medicine and the History of Medicine Stephen W. Schondelmeyer, Head of the Department of Pharmaceutical Care and Health Systems at the University of Minnesota.
12.10.2015	Congressman Lloyd Doggett met with several San Marcos leaders to discuss federal relief following multiple devastating floods, including Mayor Daniel Guerrero, Mayor Pro Tem John Thomaides, Kristi Wyatt, City Manager Jared Miller, Ken Bell, City Council Members Lisa Prewitt, Melissa Derrick, and Scott Gregson.
12.07.2015	By Bill Lambrecht, Washington Bureau December 6, 2015 WASHINGTON — Citing Texans’ complaints of soaring prescription costs, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett is leading an effort in Congress seeking causes and remedies. Doggett, D-Austin, has formed an entity called the Prescription Drug Pricing Task Force, and one of the initial efforts is pressuring the Obama administration to use its authorities to stem an ongoing rise in the costs of pharmaceuticals. Recent cases of dramatic price increases — like the $84,000 hepatitis C treatment — are drawing attention. But Doggett and allies point to price boosts for many drugs, evidenced in a government study last week showing a 12.2 percent increase last year in prescription drug spending. That was a five-fold increase over the 2013 rate. “Exorbitant drug prices are not just about one company or one outlier, not just about generics or one brand. They’re about a pervasive, systemic problem that is a pocketbook issue for American families, especially for seniors on a fixed income,” Doggett said. Critics point to several causes, among them a shortage of innovation and the wave of mergers and acquisitions that have reduced competition. The effects are being felt not just by consumers but in Medicare and Medicaid programs paying for many prescriptions. Leigh Purvis, director of Health Services Research at AARP's Public Policy Institute, has been studying drug pricing since 2004. “This is a long-term trend that shows no signs of slowing. It’s just reaching a point when people can’t afford their medicines,” she said in an interview. She added: “There’s nothing in the U.S. health care system to stop it.” House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., referred to Doggett last week as “a champion on this issue.” She remarked on a shortcoming of the new health insurance law with regard to prescription medicine. “When we passed the Affordable Care Act, the idea was that these drugs would be available to people in ACA. That doesn’t seem to be the case,” she said. Pelosi was speaking at a hearing arranged by Doggett’s task force, an initial achievement since a handful of members started meeting quietly this fall. The new entity now includes about 10 members, all Democrats. Their group is filling a vacuum in the Republican-run House, where leaders have declined to conduct hearings or use subpoena power to investigate the pricing trend. The Senate is a different story. In a bipartisan investigation, the Senate Finance Committee released emails last week showing that executives of California-based Gilead Sciences were keenly aware of potential public outrage when they set the $84,000 cost for a 12-week treatment of Sovaldi, a potent new drug for hepatitis C. Likewise, the Senate’s bipartisan Special Committee on Aging is investigating the decision by Turing Pharmaceuticals, formed recently by hedge fund manager Martin Shkreli, to raise the price of the anti-infection drug Daraprim by 5,000 percent — from $13.50 a pill to $750. The committee, which is holding its first hearing this week, is looking into price spikes for several other prescriptions, among them a tuberculosis drug that shot up 2,000 percent to nearly $11,000 a bottle and a pill to prevent kidney stones that went from $1.50 to $30. Big fixes, such as allowing re-importation of cheaper drugs from approved pharmacies in Canada, have proved elusive over the years. The White House has been criticized for not making imports a bargaining chip when engineering the Affordable Care Act in 2010. With prospects for legislation remote in the near-paralyzed House, Doggett is turning his attention to pressuring the Obama administration. He said that he and other Democrats intend to focus on the National Institutes of Health, a principal funder of research into new medicines. “If a drug is developed out of NIH research, I think taxpayers have a stake in what kind of prices are being charged for it,” he said. Doggett said he also will be looking at Affordable Care Act programs for potential relief while pressing the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, part of Health and Human Services, for more transparency related to negotiated drug prices. “We need to use every part of the federal government we can to address this crisis,” he said. Dr. Jeremy Greene of Johns Hopkins University, a physician and drug historian, said efforts like Doggett’s can bring attention to the problem. “But in order for Congress to make effective progress, it requires bipartisan action,” Greene said in an interview. “The complexities of the off-patent drug marketplace that distort this market cannot be understood without the ability to shine a bright light on pricing and distribution practices. And that really requires subpoena power.” He added: “The frequency and the severity of shortages and prices of off-patent drugs have been increasing dramatically over the last few years. If nothing changes, why wouldn’t we see more and more companies deploying these tactics?” Meanwhile, prescription costs are a growing burden, especially for people with serious illnesses. Heather Block, who is dealing with stage 4 breast cancer, returned to the East Coast recently from Austin, where she underwent lengthy treatment. For injections of Faslodex, used to combat metastatic breast cancer, she was billed between $5,000 and $6,000 a month. Elsewhere, she’s seen costs as high as $9,800 for the same dosage of the same drug. “Hopefully I’ll live awhile,” she said in an interview. “I’m never going to beat it. But the longer I live, the more expensive it is. That’s the Catch-22, and it’s a scary Catch-22.”
11.12.2015	Units to be certified by Build San Antonio Green By Jacob Schmidt Posted: 10:05 PM, November 06, 2015 SAN ANTONIO - Construction is kicking off for two new housing developments in Southtown. One of the sites was an abandoned hotel and bar, while the other is a former gas station. The new units are located in the 1500 and 1600 blocks of South Presa Street near Brackenridge High School. “I know that we have a partnership moving this community forward, building on the great family businesses and families that have called this home for decades,” District 35 U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett said. “But (we) are adding something new that will really be a plus for the community and will set an example for the entire city.” The developments are expected to be completed by the end of next year, and both will be certified by the organization Build San Antonio Green.
10.30.2015	By: Rep. Lloyd Doggett October 30, 2015 Re: “Politics might block area businesses’ trade opportunities,” David Hendricks, Business, Oct. 21: The questionable outlook for the Trans-Pacific Partnership results mostly from bad policy, not politics. Nor do agreements promoting more trade require the pervasive secrecy demanded by U.S. Trade AmbassadorMichael Froman. At this late date, the final language of TPP and its side deals still remain hidden from Congress and the public. We should seek open, candid dialogue, like that encouraged by those European trading partners, who actually publish their trade negotiating proposals. The recent column did correctly note that we both have actively supported export financing and insurance so important to many local small businesses and to Boeing. Despite the unwillingness of every Texas Republican Congress member to support a vote on renewing the Export-Import Bank, we are determined to promptly approve this pro-trade legislation.And why question the political motives of Rep. Joaquín Castro when the policy concerns he voiced —Malaysian human trafficking and climate change — are so well justified and unrefuted? Since the applied tariff rate for about 90 percent of American exports to TPP countries is already zero, TPP has less to do with lowering tariffs than lowering the bar on foreign corporate behavior. Recently at Sunset Station, in explaining her TPP opposition, Hillary Clinton emphasized how this deal fails to prevent foreign governments from unfairly helping their exporters by manipulating the value of their currency downward, at the expense of competing American businesses. This deal advantages pharmaceutical manufacturers rather than protecting patients from price gouging. It promotes Vietnam, which lacks protections for workers, who can be paid 60 cents an hour. It gives foreigners advantages over Americans in challenging health and safety laws that could cost taxpayers dearly. Since I have previously supported trade expansion with most TPP countries, I do believe more trade, on reasonable terms, can mean more San Antonio jobs and welcome continued good counsel from our business community. Let’s seek trade in a way that reflects American values and exports more goods, not more jobs. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, represents the 35th Congressional District and is a member of the House, Ways and Means Committee.
10.15.2015	by: Rep. Lloyd Doggett October 6, 2015 This is what we have come to---some House Republicans have become so radical, so rigid, that even their Leader finally said, “I give up.” Near Halloween, a new Speaker begins, but not necessarily a new way of doing business. For the American people, this is likely to be all trick and no treat. Until Republicans stop calling their own leaders liars and begin seeking bipartisan answers to multiple national challenges, we will continue facing one unnecessary, manufactured crisis after another. To achieve progress, the new Speaker must permit consideration of measures enjoying genuine bipartisan support. So often, Boehner relied almost exclusively on Republican votes, which empowered the most extreme elements to hold the congressional agenda hostage. That’s what happened in July when Confederate flag-wavers refused to support appropriations bills that limited flag display. Six essential spending measures still remain blocked. To bridge this impasse, Democrats offered to ignore Confederate symbols if the Speaker would simply permit debate on strengthening the Voting Rights Act. We were rejected, since this measure also is supported by some, but not most Republicans. Extremists previously stopped public education reform, immigration overhaul, Export-Import Bank renewal, the Violence Against Women Act and took us just over “the fiscal cliff” in 2013. Even short of a complete shutdown, certain key priorities are already shutdown. For example, the nation’s infrastructure is overwhelmed, while no action is taken on long-term transportation investment. Since the last 5-year transportation authorization expired, there have been 34 short-term extensions. Neglecting our deteriorating roads and bridges, these same Republicans amazingly seem excited to build a giant wall along the Mexican border. Nor is the full faith and credit of the United States in paying our nation’s bills a legitimate bargaining chip. Yet the former Republican-appointed Congressional Budget Office Director says, “Republicans can’t pass a debt limit increase — period.” “They could … close every federal agency and it wouldn’t pass the House.” This is reality despite Congress having adjusted this debt limitation a total of 25 times for Presidents Reagan and George W. Bush. When the federal government is shutdown, veterans don’t receive benefits; federal retirees, employees and contractors are not paid. Temporary funding has just been continued through mid-December only because 91 Republicans were permitted the rare opportunity to join Democrats in approval, overcoming opposition from 151 Republicans. What happens next, just before Christmas, is more uncertainty. A repeat of 2013 would leave families wondering: How to pay their rent or mortgage? Car payment? Student loans? Utilities and credit card bills? During the last shutdown, the Republican excuse was Obamacare. Now, it’s misrepresentations about Planned Parenthood. They will ultimately fail, but can still inflict real damage. Some new Republican Members signed a letter urging the Speaker to avoid a shutdown, but no Texas Republican joined. Among those lamenting recent developments: Rep. Charles Dent (R-Pa) said some Republicans “cannot get to yes” and are weakening Congress. Rep. Peter King (R-NY) questioned those trying to “hijack and blackmail the party,” indicating that Boehner’s fall shows “crazies have taken over the party.” Mindful of the estimated $24 billion cost of the last unnecessary Republican shutdown, we cannot afford to needlessly threaten job growth. To keep the government operational, the Speaker should reach out to Democrats, boldly choosing bipartisanship over the “Shutdown Caucus.” Fringe element schemes reduce American economic competitiveness, limit individual opportunity, and cost every working family. Quoting his encyclical Laudato Si’, Pope Francis urged us to “work together in building our common home.” The work to strengthen our homes should begin in the House. And that begins with a Speaker willing to shut down the Shutdown Caucus. ###
09.24.2015	“The Pope’s message of goodness and hope, of peace and justice, touches people of all faiths. I salute his call for dialogue and cooperation to respond to the most disadvantaged, reject violence, and serve as stewards of our threatened planet. His reminder that we all come from families of foreigners is an antidote to the poisonous misrepresentations about immigrants, which bombard us daily. I hope his nonpolitical words lead to more effective action from a Congress that has accomplished so little.” --Rep. Lloyd Doggett
09.09.2015	Published 1:11 pm, Wednesday, September 9, 2015 Chapter 1594 of the National Active and Retired Federal Employees Association (NARFE) welcomed U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-San Antonio, as the guest speaker at its Aug. 19 meeting. Pictured, from left, are Gerardo Rendon, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett, Elevia Gant and NARFE Chapter 1594 President Joyce Zerr. Chapter 1594 of the National Active and Retired Federal Employees Association (NARFE) welcomed U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-San Antonio, as the guest speaker at its Aug. 19 meeting. Doggett addressed the concerns of NARFE members, including issues such as Medicare, Social Security, Government Pension Offset, Federal Employees Health Benefits, salaries, cost of living raises and the data breach. He also hosted a Q&A session and spoke one-on-one with NARFE members and guests. Also attending the meeting were Doggett’s San Antonio office assistant MaryEllen Veliz and his Washington, D.C., office assistant Leslie Tisdale. The Federal Benefits Open Season runs from Nov. 9-Dec. 14. Open Season is the time for federal employees, retirees and survivors to make changes to their Federal Health Insurance. The next meeting of NARFE Chapter 1594 will be Sept. 16 at Brookhill Baptist Church, 631 Utopia Lane. The meeting will run 12:30-2:30 p.m. Current or retired federal employees are welcome. Call Joyce Zerr at 210-523-0770 for more information. ###
07.29.2015	By Susan Jaffe July 29, 2015 The U.S. Senate unanimously approved legislation Monday night requiring hospitals across the nation to tell Medicare patients when they receive observation care but have not been admitted to the hospital. It’s a distinction that’s easy to miss until patients are hit with big medical bills after a short stay. The vote follows overwhelming approval in the U. S. House of Representatives in March. The legislation is expected to be signed into law by President Barack Obama, said its House sponsor, Texas Democratic Rep. Lloyd Doggett. It’s called the NOTICE Act, short for “Notice of Observation Treatment and Implication for Care Eligibility.” The law would require hospitals to provide written notification to patients 24 hours after receiving observation care, explaining that they have not been admitted to the hospital, the reasons why, and the potential financial implications. Those implications can be dire. Observation care hurts seniors in two ways: It keeps Medicare’s more comprehensive hospitalization coverage from kicking in, and it means they may not get Medicare’s limited nursing home benefit if they need care in a facility after being in a hospital. To qualify for Medicare’s nursing home coverage, beneficiaries must first spend three consecutive midnights as an admitted patient in a hospital, and observation days don’t count. Without that coverage, seniors could pay thousands of dollars for the nursing home care their doctor ordered, or else try to recover on their own. Observation care is a classification used when patients are not well enough to go home but not sick enough to be admitted. And because observation care is provided on an outpatient basis, observation patients usually also have co-payments for doctors’ fees and each hospital service, and they have to pay whatever the hospital charges for any routine drugs the hospital provides that they take at home for chronic conditions such as diabetes or high cholesterol. A handful of states already require observation care notices, including New York, Connecticut, Maryland, Pennsylvania and Virginia, said Doggett. But Medicare officials have been reluctant to take similar steps. Hospitals will have to comply with the NOTICE Act 12 months after it becomes law. A Medicare official declined to answer questions about the NOTICE Act because he said the agency does not comment on pending legislation. However, he said an online brochure from Medicare describing observation care advises patients to talk to their physicians or other health staff if they have questions about whether they have been admitted. Just two months ago, Sean Cavanaugh, a deputy administrator at the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, fielded a barrage of questions on the issue from members of the Senate Special Committee on Aging. “There is an assumption if [patients] are being wheeled into a hospital bed,” and they are getting treatment, then they have been admitted, Sen. Claire McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat, told Cavanaugh. When Sen. Susan Collins, a Maine Republican, repeated McCaskill’s question asking if CMS would require notification, he said the federal government has been “pushing very hard” to encourage hospitals to educate patients about observation care. But he said it wasn’t clear that the agency could require hospitals to do more to inform patients. “A new legislative requirement was the most direct way to address the problem,” Doggett said. Meanwhile, the number of claims hospitals submitted for observation care continues to skyrocket. According to the most recently available data from CMS, total claims increased 91 percent since 2006, to 1.9 million in 2013. Long observation stays, lasting 48 hours or more, rose by 450 percent to 170,219 during the same period, according to a Kaiser Health News analysis. In 2013, Medicare officials attempted to control the use of observation care by issuing the so-called “two-midnight rule,” which would require hospitals to admit patients who doctors expect to stay at least two midnights. But Congress delayed its enforcement after hospitals said the rule was confusing and arbitrary. Although it’s better for patients to know when they are on observation status, Toby Edelman, a senior policy attorney at the Center for Medicare Advocacy, said they may not be able to do much about it. She said there is no set process for challenging observation care while in the hospital, unlike issues such as disputing a discharge order when admitted patients feel they are not ready to leave. The only way to switch from observation to admitted status is to persuade a physician or the hospital to make the change, said Edelman. And that decision doesn’t apply to the time the patient has already spent on observation. Challenging observation care after leaving the hospital can be frustrating since Medicare appeals judges may decide that a patient’s condition did not require inpatient-level care — even though they received care that could have been provided nowhere else but a hospital. Some hospital officials are worried that once patients find out that they are receiving observation care and have not been admitted, they may panic. Marna Borgstrom, CEO and president of Yale-New Haven Hospital in Connecticut, told the Senate Special Committee on Aging last year she detected a small but alarming trend: When patients learned they were receiving observation care, they left the hospital against medical advice. “I’m confident it would be an even greater number if more patients knew about the potential burden of being deemed an outpatient,” Borgstrom said. ###
07.08.2015	By: Richard Webner July 8, 2015 The San Antonio metro area has won entry into an exclusive federal program that will give it bonus points when applying for grants to promote manufacturing. The U.S. Department of Commerce has picked a dozen regions, including San Antonio, to join its Investing in Manufacturing Communities Partnership program, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, announced Wednesday morning in a news release. Membership in the program will make it easier for local agencies to get federal money for academic research, infrastructure improvements and programs to promote international trade. Local leaders are especially focused on workforce development grants to fight the “skill gap” that limits hiring for some local manufacturers, said John Dewey, an ex-officio director at the San Antonio Manufacturers Association, who worked on the application to the program. Doggett, whose district includes parts of San Antonio, echoed that view in his news release. “Expanding our skilled workforce is essential to expanding local manufacturing,” Doggett said. “This designation should be helpful in accessing federal funds for successful job training programs like the Alamo Academies to assist in filling well-paying manufacturing jobs.” The regions joining the program will get preference when applying for $1.3 billion worth of grants from 10 federal agencies, according to the Commerce Department’s website. San Antonio went through a competitive process to be a part of the partnership; last year, 70 communities applied for the 12 spots, according to a White House news release. Local officials applied last year but didn’t win, Dewey said. The region will be in the partnership for two years, Dewey said, with an opportunity for extension afterward. “It’s pretty automatic on the extension,” he said. ###
07.06.2015	July 5, 2015 SAN ANTONIO — Texas officials applauded a United Nations committee's decision Sunday to add the Alamo and four other Spanish Roman Catholic missions to UNESCO's list of World Heritage Sites, knowing it may bring more tourists. The UNESCO World Heritage committee added the sites, collectively known as the San Antonio Missions, to the list during a meeting in Bonn, Germany. U.S. Rep. Joaquin Castro, a San Antonio native, said in a statement that he was "proud and grateful" to the UN cultural body. "Not only does the World Heritage Site designation raise San Antonio's international profile, it stands to add over a thousand jobs and more than $100 million to our city's economy," Castro said. In addition to the Alamo, the San Antonio Missions include Mission Espada, Mission San Juan, Mission Concepcion and Mission Valero. Also on the list is Rancho de las Cabras, a ranch outpost of Mission Espada about 23 miles south. The missions were built in the 18th century in and around what is now the city of San Antonio to convert indigenous people to Catholicism and make them Spanish subjects. Disease reduced the native population, accelerating the missions' decline. The Alamo featured in a famous 1836 battle in which Texas settlers seized the mission from the Mexican army, but were eventually routed. In the Battle of San Jacinto, then-victorious Texas soldiers shouted, "Remember the Alamo!" The missions and the land around them became the San Antonio Missions National Historical Park in 1983, and all except the Alamo are still used as Catholic parishes. Officials hope the designation of the largest collection of Spanish colonial architecture in the U.S. will boost tourism, already responsible for one in eight jobs in San Antonio. "Now more people from around the world will come to appreciate our treasure," said U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett. After the U.S. Department of the Interior nominated the San Antonio Missions in 2014, state Senator Donna Campbell made a failed bid to prevent the Texas land office from vesting ownership over the Alamo to a foreign entity. It drew sharp criticism from San Antonio officials worried it would hurt tourism and the UNESCO bid and it was panned both by Democrats and Campbell's fellow Republicans. More than a dozen other sites have also been granted World Heritage status in recent days, including Singapore's Botanical Gardens, the ancient city of Susa in Iran and France's champagne region. ###
06.25.2015	by Edgar Walters and Alexa Ura June 25, 2015 In a major victory for the Obama administration, the U.S. Supreme Court on Thursday upheld a key element of the president’s signature health law — the part that gives tax subsidies to people who buy health insurance on the Affordable Care Act’s federal marketplace. "It's time for opponents to face facts: The Affordable Care Act is the law of the land, and it's working," Democratic state Rep. Donna Howard of Austin said in a statement. The high court’s 6-3 decision means more than 800,000 low- and middle-income Texans — and millions of people in other states that didn’t establish their own insurance exchanges — will continue to receive the financial assistance that helps offset the cost of their health plans. It's a move the state's Republican leaders called terribly misguided. “The Supreme Court abandoned the Constitution to resuscitate a failing health care law," Gov. Greg Abbott said in a statement. "Today’s action underscores why it is now more important than ever to ensure we elect a president who will repeal Obamacare and enact real health care reforms.” The lawsuit known as King v. Burwell questioned whether the Internal Revenue Service could give tax credits to people who purchased plans on the federal exchange. The challengers said no, pointing to a provision of an IRS rule that links subsidies to an “exchange established by the state,” wording that some of the health law’s authors have described as a drafting error. But the court ruled against that challenge. Chief Justice John Roberts wrote the majority opinion, holding that the language was ambiguous. “A fair reading of legislation demands a fair understanding of the legislative plan,” he wrote. “Congress passed the Affordable Care Act to improve health insurance markets, not to destroy them.” Justices Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas and Samuel A. Alito opposed the decision. In writing for the dissenting members, Scalia said the court used "jiggery-pokery" and performed "somersaults of statutory interpretation" to uphold the law, saying there was hardly a need for the high court to take up the issue. "We should start calling this law SCOTUScare," Scalia added. He also wrote that equating establishment of an insurance exchange "by the state" to the exchange set up by the feds made "nonsense" of other parts of the Affordable Care Act. "Words no longer have meaning if an exchange that is not established by a state is 'established by the state,'" Scalia wrote. Health policy analysts earlier warned a ruling against the subsidies could have had seismic consequences for Texas. The average tax-subsidized Obamacare enrollee in Texas could have seen a premium increase of 305 percent if the court had ruled against the subsidies, according to an analysis the Kaiser Family Foundation made before the ruling. One insurance industry group, in a court briefing supporting the subsidies, said eliminating them would trigger a “death spiral” of premium increases and market destabilization. Nearly 1 million Texans have signed up for health insurance on the federal marketplace. And 86 percent of them received a tax credit to do it; the average subsidy was $247 per month. In Washington, the reaction among Texas' congressional delegation was predictably divided. U.S. Rep. Kevin Brady, R-Conroe, said the Supreme Court "ought to get an Olympic gold medal for its tortured legal gymnastics upholding this broken Affordable Care Act." His colleague, Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, said he was very encouraged. "I hope that like the 60 failed attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act," he said, "that now we can focus on how to strengthen and improve it instead of how to dismantle it." Reporter Abby Livingston contributed to this article. ###
06.22.2015	###
06.22.2015	June 19, 2015 By: Scott Huddleston U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett said he’s confident that the five San Antonio missions will become the first World Heritage Site in Texas when an international panel gathers in two weeks. “It’s not just about our history in the past, but it’s about the jobs that will be created,” Doggett, D-Austin, said at a news conference Friday to discuss the transfer of lands to expand the San Antonio Missions National Historical Park. Doggett, whose district includes most of the park, sponsored a bill to add 137 acres, to provide buffer areas, protect views and expand land for historical interpretation, including a large portion of former farmland south of Mission San Juan. After years of failed efforts to broaden the park’s boundaries, Doggett got the measure approved in December as part of a defense authorization bill, which he said “had to pass.” A 21-member international committee of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization will gather July 3-5 in Bonn, Germany, to consider naming the missions a World Heritage Site, a prestigious designation that has existed since 1978. Officials with the city, Bexar County, the San Antonio River Authority and the National Park Service signed documents regarding the transfer of 55 acres of land by the river authority and 5.5 acres from the city. The 16-acre Mission County Park will remain county-owned but will be within the boundary of the federal park and “operated in a manner that preserves the natural environment,” county officials said. Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff, who will join Mayor Ivy Taylor and Councilwoman Rebecca Viagran in a local delegation traveling to Bonn for the annual World Heritage Convention, said the addition gives the park about 2,500 acres, nearly three times the area of New York’s Central Park. Mardi Arce, park superintendent, said the transfer allows for up to 75 more acres, in addition to about 50 acres currently, to grow wheat and other crops raised on San Juan’s historic farmland, or labores. “So as people drive down Villamain (Road), or hike or bike on the trail, they’re going to be actually see these fields in production. And so that just adds to more of the visitor understanding of the story of the missions,” Arce said. Although the park expansion has not been completed, Friday’s action provides a “great send-off for our delegation,” Doggett said. He said congressional officials from San Antonio in the U.S. House have “contacted every ambassador of a country that has someone on that committee, asking them to support our missions. “We’ve begun to get acknowledgments back, and we’re trying to get as many votes ahead of the meeting as possible in support of what is clearly the nation’s largest cultural collection of the Spanish colonial heritage anywhere … some place that is really unique to the world,” he said. “Germany has already responded and said count on their vote,” while other responses “have been more ambiguous,” Doggett said after the news conference. He also noted that the state and city are working to develop a master plan “to enhance the Alamo and its history and the role of Native Americans and Tejanos there.” “I think it’s going to happen if they look at the merits of our proposal,” he said of the UNESCO decision. Sally Buchanan, river authority chairwoman, compared the park expansion to a transfer of lands and agreements involving the city, San Antonio Conservation Society, Archdiocese of San Antonio and Texas Parks and Wildlife Department to create the federal park in 1978. It was “a great example of our local governmental and institutional collaboration,” she said. The park also has had the support of Los Compadres, which raises funds for park projects; Las Misiones/Old Spanish Missions, which helps restore the churches; and active Catholic parishes at the missions that help with some operating costs. “What you all do here in San Antonio is a model for our Congress to replicate,” said Suzanne Dixon, regional director of the National Parks Conservation Association. “Our national parks are sites that we must protect for future generations.” ###
06.09.2015	Dear Colleague: As the debate about Fast Track trade authority for the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) continues, we write to address the frequently repeated assertion that the TPP will have strongest labor and environmental standards ever. To assess whether the TPP is setting a high watermark, we should look to past agreements to see if we are progressing or simply remaking mistakes of the past. In 2007, House Democrats worked with President George W. Bush’s administration to improve labor, environmental, and other standards in U.S. trade agreements with Peru, Panama, Colombia, and South Korea. That agreement, now known as the “May 10th agreement”, also made labor and environmental chapters subject to the same dispute settlement provisions as most other issues in the trade deals (with the exception of investor initiated disputes, which retain their own extrajudicial mechanism) and ensured that trade sanctions – not just fines – could be imposed for violations of labor and environmental obligations. This agreement represented the most progress that could be achieved by a Democratic-controlled Congress under a Republican administration. The Peru deal went into effect in 2009 and the other three in 2012. ­­We now have several years of evidence since the enactment of both the May 10th agreement and other trade pacts that predated that agreement: Last November, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) criticized enforcement of existing labor commitments in free trade agreements (FTAs), writing that the United States Trade Representative (USTR) and the Department of Labor: “lack a strategic approach to systematically assess whether partner countries’ conditions and practices are inconsistent with labor provisions in the FTAs. Despite some proactive steps, they generally rely on labor submissions [by third parties] to begin identifying, investigating, and initiating steps to address possible inconsistencies with FTA labor provisions.” The TPP cannot advance the agenda of creating a level playing field if the U.S. government is a passive bystander waiting for violations to be flagged by third parties. Nothing in the TPP will change that. Threats, murders, and physical assaults undermine workers’ rights to freedom of association guaranteed by national law in both Guatemala and Honduras and embodied in trade agreements. However, allegations of government toleration of – and indeed, potential participation in – acts of violence have not been addressed. For example, a submission filed by the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO) and 26 Honduran unions and civil society organizations on March 26, 2012 with the Office of Trade and Labor Affairs (OTLA) alleged that the government of Honduras failed to investigate and prosecute violence and threats against trade unionists. However, in its report, the OTLA declined to make findings with respect to the issue of labor violence. According to research conducted by Escuela Nacional Sindical (the National Union School in Colombia), there have been 105 anti-union murders since the implementation of the Labor Action Plan in Colombia that was adopted parallel to the U.S.-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement. On February 26, 2015, writing in support of the TPP, Director of the National Economic Council Jeffrey Zients explained that the administration would act “on its own” accord to protect labor and environmental standards in the TPP. However, the administration currently has this ability to act in Colombia, yet it has failed to do so. In response to third-party submissions, it took 7 years for the USTR to reach a dispute settlement after violations of the labor chapter in Guatemala, and almost 3 years in Honduras just to issue an initial report; moreover, labor conditions have still not improved in either country. There is also a marked lack of progress on the abolishment of forced labor with our trading partners. The State Department ranks countries based on a government’s compliance with the Trafficking Victims Protection Act’s minimum standards. Three countries – Panama, Colombia, and Morocco – have been downgraded at least once since entering into trade agreements with the United States, reflecting a lack of willingness to combat trafficking and forced labor, even when trade agreements exist. This is especially troubling since some TPP countries, such as Malaysia, struggle to enforce laws already on the books. Four trade agreements in Latin America (Colombia, Panama, CAFTA, and Peru) require the U.S. government to help partner countries strengthen labor laws, improve enforcement, and build the capacity of civil society to assist workers in securing rights spelled out in these trade agreements. Congress has consistently provided the needed funding, but USAID and the State Department have not consistently implemented their trade capacity building responsibilities. This is another example of a breached labor commitment. The United States’ record on enforcing environmental obligations also raises concerns. For example, the United States-Peru Free Trade Agreement included a Forest Annex aimed at stopping illegal timber trade between Peru and the United States. In April 2012, the Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA) published a multi-year investigative report, which documents at least 112 illegal shipments of cedar and mahogany wood – laundered with fabricated papers and signed off on by Peruvian government officials – were made to the U.S. between 2008 and 2010. Despite a formal request from civil society organizations, USTR declined to use the tools in the Annex to hold Peru accountable, and specifically has not ensured that the comprehensive five year audits be performed. Just last week, EIA published a status report which demonstrated the failure of USTR to enforce the environmental obligations in the trade agreement. Moreover, recently enacted Peruvian Law 30230, “Tax Law Establishing Measures, Simplified Procedures and Permits for the Promotion and Dynamization of Investment in the Country,” likely violates the U.S.-Peru trade pact by weakening environmental laws in order to attract investment. While the USTR has never used free trade agreement rules to bring a case against another country for failure to meet environmental obligations, corporations are increasingly using the investor-state dispute settlement (ISDS) mechanism to challenge climate and environmental policies. In April, a North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) ISDS tribunal ruled that Canada violated the minimum standard of treatment provision in NAFTA, a vague standard replicated in the TPP, by denying the construction of a controversial quarry project in an environmentally sensitive part of Nova Scotia. The ruling paves the way for the tribunal to order the government to compensate the foreign firm, Bilcon, which is seeking $300 million. In short, as elected officials concerned about leveling the playing field in international trade, ending the race to the bottom, and creating a global economy that builds shared prosperity and sustainable environmental practices, we cannot accept that vague promises will achieve a high standard without an effective means to trigger enforcement of our trade agreements. We must make sure that the tools included in trade agreements are useable, effective, and actually enforced. Anything less fails our constituents and our country. Sincerely, /s/ /s/ Rep. Robert C. “Bobby” Scott Rep. Lloyd Doggett Ranking Member Senior Member House Committee on Education & the Workforce House Ways & Means Committee
06.01.2015	
06.01.2015	After his initial proclamation for state involvement, Governor Abbott late Friday requested federal assistance. President Obama immediately granted the request, issuing a Major Disaster Declaration for parts of Texas which includes Hays and other impacted counties. Hays County has been granted both Public and Individual Assistance. Soon, FEMA will have teams on the ground to measure the amount and type of damage that occurred to public and private property and ways to mitigate reoccurrence of such damage. I will continue to post federal updates as I receive them. Given the damage in Spring River Estates and River Bend Subdivision in Martindale, Caldwell County is also expected to make a request for assistance. Individuals and business owners in Harris, Hays and Van Zandt Counties who sustained losses due to severe storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding can begin applying for assistance by registering online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov. If you do not have access to the internet you may register by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or 1-800-462-7585(TTY). If you use 711 relay or Video Relay Service (VRS), call 800-621-3362 directly. The toll-free telephone numbers will operate from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. (local time) seven days a week until further notice
05.26.2015	I am joining San Marcos Mayor Guerrero to assess areas affected by flooding and work to ensure help gets to those who need it. Currently, there are shelters open at the San Marcos Activity Center and South Austin Rec Center. Check updates here.
05.26.2015	
05.15.2015	May 13, 2015 by: U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett The recommendation by the International Council on Monuments and Sites, or ICOMOS, that the San Antonio missions be designated as a collective World Heritage Site is truly “monumental.” It reflects years of dedicated effort by so many. Our recent expansion of the missions park has advanced this effort. After years of work, the San Antonio Missions National Historical Park is expanding by 137 acres because of a bill I sponsored, signed into law by President Barack Obama in December. The land is being acquired through donations and cooperative agreements with no additional cost to taxpayers. But we are not there yet. Work remains to ensure the missions receive this important designation. All of our local Congress members are joining to seek support from the ambassador of each country on UNESCO’s World Heritage Committee, meeting in Bonn, Germany, this summer. That final approval will give us even more to celebrate. This designation is about both cultural preservation and job expansion through increased tourist dollars, as more folks from around the world are drawn to what makes San Antonio unique. An economic study found that a World Heritage designation for the missions could significantly boost economic growth — helping yield $502 million annually for the San Antonio area within a decade. It’s not just about preserving the past, it’s about building our future. ###
05.07.2015	May 7, 2015 Washington-- Today, Rep. Lloyd Doggett (TX-35), Rep. Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), and Rep. David E. Price (NC-04) sent a letter to President Obama supporting his administration's efforts to negotiate a comprehensive and verifiable nuclear agreement that will prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. The letter was signed by 150 Members of Congress. Last month, the White House unveiled a framework for a comprehensive and verifiable nuclear agreement between the P5+1 (United States, United Kingdom, China, France, Russia and Germany) and the government of Iran. Representatives of the P5+1 are negotiating the technical specifics of the deal to ensure that it will put a verifiable stop to Iran’s nuclear weapons program. The Schakowsky-Doggett-Price letter demonstrates strong support for these negotiations in the United States House of Representatives and makes clear that diplomacy is the best way to prevent a nuclear-armed Iran. "We must not let Iran develop or possess a nuclear weapon, and I firmly believe that diplomacy is the best way to achieve that goal." Rep. Schakowsky said. "I also believe that we must do whatever we can to ensure that the negotiators have the space they need to mold the announced framework into a long-term, verifiable and enforceable agreement." “Our letter shows significant Congressional support for negotiating a strong, verifiable final agreement,” Rep. Doggett said. “All of us, who do not trust war as the answer, must continue working together to support a peaceful resolution and overcome the bellicose voices whose only alternative is the perilous course of bombing Iran.” “I strongly believe that diplomacy is our best option for ensuring that Iran does not develop a nuclear weapon, which is a critical foreign policy and national security priority,” Rep. Price said. “We have made remarkable progress along with our international partners, and we must give the ongoing negotiations our full support as we near a final, verifiable nuclear agreement.” The full text of the letter is below. May 7, 2015 The President The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: As negotiations over Iran's nuclear program continue, we urge you to stay on course, building on the recently announced political framework and continuing to work toward a strong and verifiable agreement between the P5+1 countries and Iran that will prevent Iran from having a nuclear weapon. We commend you and your negotiating team, as well as our coalition partners, for the significant progress made thus far. This issue is above politics. The stakes are too great, and the alternatives are too dire. We must exhaust every avenue toward a verifiable, enforceable, diplomatic solution in order to prevent a nuclear-armed Iran. If the United States were to abandon negotiations or cause their collapse, not only would we fail to peacefully prevent a nuclear-armed Iran, we would make that outcome more likely. The multilateral sanctions regime that brought Iran to the table would likely collapse, and the Iranian regime would likely decide to accelerate its nuclear program, unrestricted and unmonitored. Such developments could lead us to war. War itself will not make us safe. A U.S. or Israeli military strike may set back Iranian nuclear development by two or three years at best - a significantly shorter timespan than that covered by a P5+1 negotiated agreement. We must pursue diplomatic means to their fullest and allow the negotiations to run their course – especially now that the parties have announced a strong framework – and continue working to craft a robust and verifiable Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action by June 30. We must allow our negotiating team the space and time necessary to build on the progress made in the political framework and turn it into a long-term, verifiable agreement. If we do not succeed, Congress will remain at-the-ready to act and present you with additional options to ensure that Iran is prevented from acquiring a nuclear weapon Thank you for your resolve in preventing a nuclear-armed Iran. We look forward to continuing our shared work on this important matter. Sincerely, Jan Schakowsky Lloyd Doggett David E. Price Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Adams, Alma; Aguilar, Pete; Ashford, Brad; Bass, Karen; Beatty, Joyce; Becerra, Xavier; Bera, Ami; Beyer, Don; Bishop, Sanford; Blumenauer, Earl; Bordallo, Madeleine; Bonamici, Suzanne; Brady, Robert; Brown, Corrine; Brownley, Julia; Bustos, Cheri; Butterfield, G.K.; Capps, Lois; Capuano, Mike; Cardenas, Tony; Carney, John; Carson, Andre; Cartwright, Matt; Castor, Kathy; Castro, Joaquin; Chu, Judy; Cicilline, David; Clark, Katherine; Clarke, Yvette; Clay, WM Lacy; Cleaver, Emanuel; Clyburn, James; Cohen, Steve; Connolly, Gerry; Conyers, John; Courtney, Joe; Cummings, Elijah; Davis, Danny; Davis, Susan; DeFazio, Peter; DeGette, Diana; DeLauro, Rosa; DelBene, Suzan; DeSaulnier, Mark; Dingell, Debbie; Doyle, Mike; Duckworth, Tammy; Edwards, Donna; Ellison, Keith; Eshoo, Anna; Esty, Elizabeth; Fattah, Chaka; Farr, Sam; Foster, Bill; Fudge, Marcia; Gallego, Ruben; Garamendi, John; Green, Al; Grijalva, Raul; Gutierrez, Luis; Hahn, Janice; Heck, Denny; Higgins, Brian; Hinojosa, Ruben; Honda, Mike; Huffman, Jared; Jackson Lee, Sheila; Jeffries, Hakeem; Johnson, EB; Johnson, Hank; Kaptur, Marcy; Keating, Bill; Kelly, Robin; Kennedy, Joe; Kildee, Dan; Kind, Ron; Kuster, Ann; Langevin, Jim; Larsen, Rick; Larson, John; Lawrence, Brenda; Lee, Barbara; Lewis, John; Lieu, Ted; Loebsack, David; Lofgren, Zoe; Lowenthal, Alan; Lujan, Ben Ray; Lujan Grisham, Michelle; Lynch, Stephen; Maloney, Sean Patrick; Matsui, Doris; McCollum, Betty; McDermott, Jim; McGovern, Jim; McNerney, Jerry; Meeks, Gregory; Moore, Gwen; Moulton, Seth; Napolitano, Grace; Neal, Richard; Nolan, Rick; Norton, Eleanor Holmes; O’Rourke, Beto; Payne Jr., Donald; Pelosi, Nancy; Perlmutter, Ed; Pierluisi, Pedro; Pingree, Chellie; Plaskett, Stacey; Pocan, Mark; Polis, Jared; Rangel, Charles; Richmond, Cedric; Roybal-Allard, Lucille; Ruiz, Raul; Ruppersberger, C.A. Dutch; Rush, Bobby; Ryan, Tim; Sablan, Gregorio; Sanchez, Linda; Sanchez, Loretta; Scott, Bobby; Scott, David; Serrano, Jose; Sewell, Terri; Slaughter, Louise; Smith, Adam; Speier, Jackie; Swalwell, Eric; Takai, Mark; Takano, Mark; Thompson, Bennie; Thompson, Mike; Tonko, Paul; Torres, Norma; Tsongas, Niki; Van Hollen, Chris; Veasey, Marc; Velazquez, Nydia; Visclosky, Peter; Walz, Tim; Waters, Maxine; Watson Coleman, Bonnie; Welch, Peter; Wilson, Frederica; Yarmuth, John ###
04.27.2015	April 26, 2015 By: Pamela Yip It’s about time. For three years, I’ve been getting on the federal government to stop imprinting Social Security numbers on Medicare cards, a practice that placed millions of people at risk for financial losses from identity theft. I’m finally getting my wish. Earlier this month, President Barack Obama signed legislation that, among other things, will end the use of Social Security numbers as the main identifier on Medicare cards. All I can say is, hooray. “That’s a giant step forward,” said Rep. Sam Johnson, R-Plano, who along with Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, pushed for the change. “The problem we’ve been having with Social Security numbers on Medicare cards — that’s been around for a long time, and I think too long.” He and Doggett have been working on this since 2008. “One of our priorities is trying to get it done as fast as we can because taking the number off the Medicare card is not the easiest thing in the world,” Johnson said. “I don’t have an idea of how long it will take to get it all done, but I think probably as much or less than four years.” The main purpose of the law, adopted with broad bipartisan support, was to overhaul the way doctors are paid for treating Medicare patients. But it makes other changes as well, including requiring that Social Security numbers must not be “displayed, coded or embedded on the Medicare card.” According to the law, Medicare officials have up to four years to start issuing cards with new identifiers. They have four more years to reissue cards held by current Medicare recipients. The law directs the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to establish a “cost-effective process that involves the least amount of disruption to, as well as necessary assistance” to Medicare beneficiaries and health care providers. Your Social Security number is your most critical personal identifier. Simply put, it is the gateway to your financial life, and if someone obtains it, they can make your life a living hell. Seniors are prime targets for identity thieves. Because they have to carry their Medicare cards to obtain medical services, that leaves their Social Security number vulnerable. In past years, many entities have urged officials to reduce the use of Social Security numbers as identifiers. In fact, most private health insurance companies already have abandoned the use of the numbers to identify individuals. But officials have cited high costs, the volume of changes, and operational and systems issues as barriers to altering the Social Security number on Medicare cards. To pay for the changes, the new law sets aside money from Medicare trust funds that are financed with payroll and other taxes, and with premiums paid by those receiving Medicare. The mandate has been handed down. Let’s get to it. ###
04.21.2015	To the Editor: Re “Don’t Keep Trade Talks Secret” (Op-Ed, April 14): Margot E. Kaminski’s call for greater trade openness is correct. Indeed, secrecy is even impairing our responsibility as members of Congress to exercise effective oversight. Open trade should begin with open access. Unfortunately, the office of the United States Trade Representative thrives on secrecy, opposing proposals from our trading partners for greater openness and denying Congress full access to information already available to foreign governments. I have long sought unfettered access to relevant trade documents. Now, fast-track negotiating authority is sought to deny lawmakers a chance to amend the Trans-Pacific Partnership and other agreements (front page, April 17). Fast track removes the congressional steering wheel and brake, derailing a full debate and further restricting access. Congressional staff members with a “top secret” clearance have been allowed only within the last month a limited review of texts stamped “confidential” by the trade representative solely to deny access. If these trade deals are so good, why so secret? A meaningful trade debate must be more than a flashcard “pro” or “con” response. Evaluating an agreement’s true effect must involve more than merely counting widgets crossing international borders. We cannot afford a race to the bottom for workers, the environment and taxpayers. LLOYD DOGGETT Washington The writer, a Democrat, represents Texas’s 35th District in the House and is a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee, with jurisdiction over trade.
04.20.2015	APRIL 20, 2015 By ROBERT PEAR WASHINGTON — Concerned about the rising prevalence and sophistication of identity theft, most private health insurance companies have abandoned the use of Social Security numbers to identify individuals. The federal government even forbids private insurers to use the numbers on insurance cards when they provide medical or drug benefits under contract with Medicare. But Medicare itself has continued the practice, imprinting Social Security numbers on more than 50 million benefit cards despite years of warnings from government watchdogs that it placed millions of people at risk for financial losses from identity theft. That is about to change, after President Obama signed a bill last week that will end the use of those numbers on Medicare cards. “The Social Security number is the key to identity theft, and thieves are having a field day with seniors’ Medicare cards,” said Representative Sam Johnson, Republican of Texas, who pushed for the change with Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat. The main purpose of the law, adopted with broad bipartisan support, was to overhaul the way doctors are paid for treating Medicare patients. But it makes other changes as well. One section that received little attention says Social Security account numbers must not be “displayed, coded or embedded on the Medicare card.” Congress provided $320 million over four years to pay for the change. The money will come from Medicare trust funds that are financed with payroll and other taxes and with beneficiary premiums. In his budget for 2016, Mr. Obama requested $50 million as a down payment “to support the removal of Social Security numbers from Medicare cards” — a step that federal auditors and investigators had been recommending for more than a decade. More than 4,500 people a day sign up for Medicare. In the coming decade, 18 million more people are expected to qualify, bringing Medicare enrollment to 74 million people by 2025. New beneficiaries are often surprised, even shocked, to find that their Medicare cards carry their Social Security numbers. Medicare uses them as the primary means of identifying beneficiaries, placing the numbers on benefit cards along with one or two letters or digits that indicate the basis of a person’s eligibility. In moving to halt the practice, Congress was motivated by the proliferation of electronic health records and a rash of recent cyberattacks, including a data breach at Anthem, one of the nation’s largest insurers. Medicare officials have up to four years to start issuing cards with new identifiers. They have four more years to reissue cards held by current beneficiaries. They intend to replace the Social Security number with “a randomly generated Medicare beneficiary identifier,” but the details are still being worked out. Paula L. Ercolini, a 70-year-old Medicare beneficiary in Sharpsburg, Ga., outside Atlanta, said she wished that her Medicare card did not include her Social Security number. “The Social Security number has the potential to open up your files, your life to hackers and thieves,” she said. “But you almost have to provide it when you go to new doctors. They won’t see you if you don’t.” The card itself tells beneficiaries: “Carry your card with you when you are away from home. Let your hospital or doctor see your card when you require hospital, medical or health services under Medicare.” Ann H. Rossie, 81, of Seattle, said she worried that having Social Security numbers on Medicare cards “makes us all vulnerable if our wallet is stolen.” “Changing to another number will be a humongous job,” said Ms. Rossie, a former Social Security claims representative. “But Medicare needs to recognize the terrible impact on anybody whose identity is stolen. It destroys your self-esteem, and it can take years to re-establish your identity and credit.” Members of Congress said the use of Social Security numbers on Medicare cards provided a case study of bureaucratic inertia. Since 2004, the Government Accountability Office, an investigative arm of Congress, has repeatedly urged officials to curtail the use of Social Security numbers as identifiers. In 2007, the White House Office of Management and Budget told agencies to “eliminate the unnecessary collection and use of Social Security numbers” within two years. In 2008, the inspector general of Social Security called for immediate action to remove the numbers from Medicare cards, saying their display “unnecessarily places millions of individuals at risk for identity theft.” In that same year, the Defense Department and the Department of Veterans Affairs began carrying out elaborate plans to remove Social Security numbers from their identification cards. But the Department of Health and Human Services, which supervises the agency that administers Medicare, has “lagged behind other federal agencies,” the Government Accountability Office said. Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine and chairwoman of the Senate Special Committee on Aging, said she was puzzled by the delays. “This still does not appear to be a priority” for Medicare administrators, she said. Medicare officials said their top information technology specialists had been preoccupied with efforts to build and repair HealthCare.gov, the online system for buying health insurance under the Affordable Care Act, which was overcome by technical problems soon after it began operating 18 months ago. An internal agency report cites concerns about “the budgetary and logistical challenges of removing Social Security numbers from Medicare cards.” The Medicare agency depends on more than 200 computer systems and pays more than a billion claims a year from 1.5 million health care providers. AARP, the lobby for older Americans, and another consumer group, the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, said they supported the new prohibition. “Older adults are targeted by fraud artists, who use their Social Security numbers to get loans and credit cards,” said Amy E. Nofziger, manager of the fraud prevention program at AARP. In one case described by Stephen R. Wigginton, the United States attorney for the Southern District of Illinois, a hospital employee and a former employee were convicted of stealing personal information from the charts of older patients and then using the data to apply for credit cards in the victims’ names. The former employee was caught on camera at a store using a credit card obtained with the personal information of a 90-year-old woman who had been admitted to the hospital from an assisted living center.
04.20.2015	APRIL 17, 2015 BY DREW JOSEPH At 11:59 p.m. Thursday, things got a lot quieter in San Antonio’s Beacon Hill and Alta Vista neighborhoods. A new quiet zone, years in the making, officially started then, meaning Union Pacific trains that rumble through the area can only blow their horns in emergencies. The zone, which stretches from West Hollywood Avenue to Hickman Street, is the city’s 11th, according to the Transportation and Capital Improvements department. At a community event Friday at Hausmann Millworks, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, who worked to get the necessary federal approval for the quiet zone, said the number of trains passing through the area had increased in recent years from 15 to 20 a week to as many as 15 to 20 a day. Doggett said that was a sign of economic vitality, but “it can really be a hassle when it’s the middle of the night.” As part of the process to get a quiet zone, crews had to install new safety features in the neighborhood, including additional striping on the streets and signs that warn that trains do not sound their horns there. They also built medians on the streets to stop drivers from trying to go around crossing arms when they are lowered. The design and construction cost $293,000, according to city officials. The funding was secured through federal grants by former District 1 Councilman and current state Rep. Diego Bernal. Neighbors first brought the issue to Bernal’s attention more than three years ago. “Alta Vista and Beacon Hill are fabulous places to live and the quiet zone enriches that experience for all of us,” said Erin Zayko, president of the Alta Vista Neighborhood Association. The new quiet zone adds to one on the same tracks that begins to the north at Sunset Road. Neighborhood leaders and District 1 officials will be distributing information to residents about safety in the quiet zone. At the event Friday, Mike Brazytis of Union Pacific noted that a train can take up to a mile to stop. “Please be patient when you see or hear an oncoming train,” he said. “Taking a risk is not worth the minutes you might save.”
03.03.2015	March 04, 2015 By: Michael McAuliff WASHINGTON -- Democrats on Wednesday fired their own salvo in Capitol Hill's ongoing tax cut battles, offering a slew of breaks that would primarily help middle-class and lower-income earners. Republicans, led by Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.), the chairman of the House Committee on Ways & Means, have already begun work on making a slew of temporary tax cuts permanent -- primarily breaks that benefit businesses. Those cuts would add hundreds of billions to the federal debt and deficit. The Democrats' offerings Wednesday were aimed to counter that push, and to set themselves up as champions of the middle class. "We want the spotlight to be very much turned on these basic middle-class tax cuts that matter so much to the middle class, and to those who are not yet in it who want to reach it," said Rep. Sander Levin (D-Mich.) in a Capitol Hill news conference. Among Democrats' proposals are bills that would increase breaks for child care, working couples and education. Many of these measures were first enacted in the 2009 stimulus legislation, but will expire in 2017. They echo proposals in President Barack Obama's budget, and aim to prevent millions of people from slipping into poverty. A measure called the Helping Working Families Afford Child Care Act would expand the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit to cover expenses up to $8,000. That would boost the average credit that most families get from $600 to $2,800. A measure called the Working Families Tax Relief Act would augment the Earned Income Tax Credit and the Child Tax Credit by making permanent expansions that were passed temporarily in 2009. It would also index the CTC to inflation. Another bill would make permanent and expand the American Opportunity Tax Credit, which gives families credit for college tuition. It would allow up to $3,000 in credits for families earning up to $200,000. "Our economy has changed a lot in the last few decades, and it’s time for our tax code to change with it," said Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.), the lead sponsor of the working families measure. "Wages for middle-class families have been flat even as costs like child care have been rising. And while Republicans continue to call for more tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans and biggest corporations, I’m proud to introduce middle-class tax cuts that will reward families for their hard work." “The expansions of these tax credits are of vital importance to tens of millions of families, and it is critical that they be extended," said Levin, the top Democrat on the House Committee on Ways & Means. "While the American economy has made significant strides in rebounding from the Great Recession, many middle-class families have been left behind. These tax credits are a priority that should be addressed in tax reform to give families the certainty they need to succeed.” A spokesman for Ryan did not immediately comment on the proposals, although Ryan has backed an expanded Earned Income Tax Credit in the past. Democrats had been highly critical of Ryan's tax cut bills in large part because Ryan's measures are not paid for by cuts elsewhere. If all of the GOP-favored cuts were passed into law, they would add some $850 billion to deficits over the next 10 years. The Democratic proposals do not include estimates of their impact on the deficit, or ways to offset the associated costs, but Democrats said there are numerous loopholes that could be closed to achieve that. "We propose to pay for anything we advance, to be consistent," said Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), who is pushing the tuition breaks along with Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.). Levin said the point of offering the bills is to make sure that as the GOP's proposals advance -- and as possible tax reform plans take shape -- measures aimed at the middle class will be part of the debate. "You can't talk about middle-class needs, you can't talk about their income -- which has been stagnant for decades -- improving, without considering these bills," Levin said. Although much of the debate around taxes has tended to be partisan, the Democrats said there is some Republican support for their ideas. "I think there is some interest," said Doggett. "That's part of what we're doing -- continuing to put this issue up there so it can't be forgotten." ###
02.20.2015	February 20, 2015 By Tim Eaton Federal health officials offered a break Friday to uninsured Texans who could be facing fines for not obtaining health insurance by the Feb. 15 deadline established by the Affordable Care Act. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services created a special enrollment period for uninsured people who face fines when they file their income taxes this year so that they do not face higher fines next year. This special enrollment will be only for people in states with federally run marketplaces, like Texas. CMS Administrator Marilyn Tavenner said the federal government recognized that this is the first tax filing season where consumers may have to pay a fine for not having health insurance coverage. The special enrollment period run from March 15 to April 30.“Our priority is to make sure consumers understand the new requirement to enroll in health coverage and to provide those who were not aware or did not understand the requirement with an opportunity to enroll in affordable coverage this year,” Tavenner said in a news release. The idea behind the extension, which was called for by U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, and others, is to provide relief to people who will see increasing fines for being uninsured. Fines this year are $95 or 1 percent of household income, but next year, they will jump to $325 or 2 percent of a household income, whichever is higher. “As I urged, we should take every opportunity to encourage families to enroll in affordable, quality health insurance,” Doggett said in a statement. “Now, thanks to the change I sought, taxpayers seeing the financial consequences of being uninsured will be able to enroll for coverage sooner instead of being forced to wait for the next enrollment period.” The announcement of the special enrollment period came after an embarrassing bungle by the federal government. About 800,000 taxpayers who enrolled in insurance policies through HealthCare.gov received erroneous tax information from the government, and they were urged on Friday to hold off on filing tax returns until the error could be corrected, The New York Times reported Friday morning. Consumers can expect to receive corrected data in the first week of March. With the new data, some taxpayers will owe more and some will owe less, and officials said they did not know why the error had occurred, the Times reported. ###
01.27.2015	By Rep. Lloyd Doggett January 27, 2015 This new Congress began with the hope that reasonable, bipartisan answers could be found to address a range of important challenges. Next week, I look forward again to welcoming the “SA to DC” delegation of local officials and business leaders, who focus our attention on Bexar County. Unfortunately, we already have a disappointing response to one key matter, which also suggests sizeable challenges in finding thoughtful answers for other problems. Though few initiatives would grow our local economy like reforming our broken immigration system, House Republicans seek to undermine the limited progress the president already achieved. They just approved legislation to deport DREAMers — those brought to America as children, who have now paid an immigration fee, cleared a criminal background check, and played by the rules. I have met personally with these young people — individuals like Pedro Villalobos, brought here at age 3, who is a top college graduate. Now in law school, he hopes to work in prosecuting criminals or other public service. Despite opposition from all Democrats, and even 26 Republicans, every Texas Republican voted to deport DREAMers like Pedro. It is wrong to make these young people leave the only country most have known. The Republican call for deportation today; deportation tomorrow; deportation forever, is not a viable solution. Meanwhile, Speaker John Boehner, who voiced openness in a San Antonio speech last year, continues to block the bipartisan immigration bill, which the Senate passed in June 2013 and which is supported by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, technology companies, and faith leaders. Border security is further undermined by Republican limitations on law enforcement funding. Homeland Security is the only federal department not funded through this fiscal year. Uncertain short-term funding weakens DHS at a time of heightened international troubles. This week, the House will consider another anti-immigrant measure under a tight procedure that limits debate and denies amendments. This proposal’s history demonstrates the barriers to resolving important issues. In May 2013, the Homeland Security Committee unanimously approved what its Republican chair touted as “the solution to the border security problem.” Despite a Republican-controlled House, Boehner has declined for 1½ years to permit consideration, fearing it would divide Republicans over broader reform. Unfortunately, last week, any pretense of bipartisanship was abandoned when this previous bipartisan proposal was replaced with a measure developed solely by Republicans and described by DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson as “extreme to the point of being unworkable.” The demand is for a border tighter than that of North Korea. DHS would be deemed to lack “operational control” if even one unaccompanied child crossed the Rio Grande. The true purpose of this approach is to delay indefinitely any future action on broader reform until an impossible security standard is attained. After a highly contentious nighttime committee meeting Republicans actually claimed as a badge of honor unanimous opposition from the same Democrats, who supported previous legislation. Certainly, I support strong border security and safe local neighborhoods. That is why we are already devoting more to border enforcement than all other federal law enforcement combined, and remain willing to adopt reasonable, additional measures. Many law enforcement officials support the president’s executive action to strengthen public safety by encouraging cooperation between police and immigrants. A month of so many troubling developments highlights the very real challenge faced by those of us who seek a middle ground where families, who pay their taxes, do not have a criminal record, and are contributing to our communities can live without the fear of being torn away from their loved ones. How disappointing that the House Republican leadership is squandering a chance to lead in a way that would not only prevent needlessly tearing families apart but also provide an opportunity for so many individuals to contribute their full potential in growing our Texas economy. ###
01.26.2015	Read Rep. Lloyd Doggett’s perspective and that of Rep. Michael McCaul regarding how the House is addressing immigration in point/counterpoint articles in today’s Austin American-Statesman as well as yesterday’s editorial questioning the unfortunate Republican rejection of a bipartisan approach to this important national concern. ###
01.08.2015	JANUARY 8, 2015 We’ve just posted a brief reminder of the economic voodoo peddled by a certain well known U.S. economist, Arthur Laffer. Now we bring you a second, related example of economic prestidigitation: a devious and increasingly popular wheeze known as “dynamic scoring.” It emerged in the United States but has been seeping into the United Kingdom and other countries. The basic idea is, in essence, that when you put together a tax policy plan you need to consider its “dynamic” effects on the economy. If you expect your plan to make the economy grow faster than it would otherwise have done, then tax revenues will presumably be higher than they would otherwise have been. And that feedback needs to be taken into account in the ‘dynamic’ model. It all sounds so reasonable, right? Wrong. And it’s so horribly wrong that we’re going to spend a bit of time discussing how and why it’s wrong. We at TJN are a non-partisan organisation but even so we’re going to quote from this short, partisan video from U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett, because he lays it out in such clear terms. Via e-mail, a press release from Doggett notes: “To those who have wondered what would be the top priority of this Republican-controlled Congress, now we know—deception, what some could even rightly call ‘tax fraud,’” said Rep. Lloyd Doggett. “ Republicans are compelling this House, for the first time in American history, to rely upon something they call ‘dynamic scoring’—a mere euphemism for whimsy, speculation, and wishful thinking—the thin veneer for a failed political ideology. Passing a balanced budget requires hard work, where everyone needs to lend a hand. Unfortunately, Republicans would rather use sleight of hand.” The teensy problem with Dynamic Scoring is that economic forecasting is famously hopeless, and endlessly susceptible to the tweaks and loaded assumptions of the shills and ideologically-blinkered cut-taxes-at-all-costs brigade. As the OECD notes in a report on dynamic scoring: “We have no idea of the magnitudes of likely responses by households and firms to many of the kinds of tax reforms often proposed in the real world, and still less idea of likely responses to changes in public spending programmes and regulations. We have no macroeconomic model that even incorporates the main features acknowledged by all as desirable, and no consensus on which of the multiplicity of radically different models best captures reality.” Dynamic scoring also often involves circular argument: you begin with an assumption that a tax cut will lead to growth or reduced avoidance or higher tax revenues, then feed that assumption into the model, to produce a result that shows tax cuts will lead to growth and higher tax revenues! As the last post notes, of course, in the real world these models are bunk. In the words of Shaun Donovan, director of the U.S. Office of Management and Budget: “Estimates from different CBO [U.S. Congressional Budget Office] models of the long-run growth effects of a 10 percent tax cut differed by a factor of 15 – and ranged from positive to negative – when dynamic scoring was used.” And there’s plenty more in that particular post, taking the arguments further. He also notes that dynamic scoring has in-built bias: it “ignores potential growth effects of investments in research, education, and infrastructure.” Which is quite a biggy. In the words of Bruce Bartlett, an economist in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administration: “Republicans want to use dynamic scoring only for tax cuts. . . They refuse to acknowledge that spending, such as public works spending, also has dynamic effects. They should either do it for spending and taxes or not at all.” In short, dynamic scoring is an out-and-out nonsense, and a crowbar for the worst kind of economic tomfoolery. Will any of this cold shower stop the shills, lobbyists and tax-cutting politicians? Of course not! You just select the radical model you want, feed in just the right assumptions, plug it into your dynamic scoring machine, and Hey Presto! A tax-cutting balanced budget! As Doggett continues in his video: “It’s deception. What some could even rightly called tax fraud, since it amounts to deliberate misrepresentation of tax data. . . . When the books won’t balance with the numbers that you’ve got, [they] say ‘use the numbers you would like to have.’ ” ###
01.06.2015	January 6, 2015 Washington is covered with a beautiful blanket of snow this morning. As the 114th Congress begins at noon, the view from my office displays scaffolding and what looks like a giant, white Band-Aid on the front of the Capitol dome— perhaps symbolic of this new Republican controlled Congress. Under conditions either good or bad, it is an honor to represent the families of our area and to strive to seek solutions to the challenges our country faces.
12.22.2014	By Vianna Davila December 21, 2014 Mission San Juan, located in south San Antonio in Missions National Historic Park on Dec. 21st, 2014. After years of wrangling, and the efforts of many elected officials, San Antonio Missions National Historical Park is expanding by 137 acres. The U.S. Senate passed the Missions National Historical Park Boundary Expansion Act, sponsored by Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, as part of the 2015 National Defense Authorization Bill on Dec. 12. President Barack Obama signed the bill into law Friday. The bill, which will affect the city’s four Spanish colonial missions maintained by the National Park Service, had languished after it was originally passed in the House last year. “It’s been a long, long, hard ride for a bill that should have been easy to pass but, unfortunately, it wasn’t,” said Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff, who was among a group of officials, including former Rep. Ciro Rodriguez and outgoing Rep. Pete Gallego, who had pushed for the park’s expansion over the years. Doggett said it was uncertain until the very last minute if he could secure a consensus to get the bill passed. “It’s so challenging to get anything completed in Washington,” Doggett said, “and I believe we have done it here.” Adding the acreage is “important for preserving cultural and historical resources,” Doggett said, adding that “it’s not just about the past, it’s about the future.” More Information The newly annexed land, around Missions San José, San Juan and Espada, will include part of the San Juan Dam and the head gate to the San Juan Acequia, a Spanish colonial-era drainage structure. It also will mean the inclusion of land between the San Antonio River and Mission San José, helping to protect the view from the mission to the river, said Mardi Arce, park superintendent. Adding the land to the park “will allow for much easier management of the resources by the park service,” said Susan Chandoha, executive director of missions’ friends group Los Compadres. The park service also plans to expand its demonstration farm around Mission San Juan, land that was part of the original Spanish farm fields, called labores. Farming has already begun; this fall, the park service planted wheat near the park for the first time, Chandoha said. The park service already owns 30 of the additional acres; the rest is owned by the San Antonio River Authority, the city and the county. The river authority had planned to donate land to the park for the San Juan farm, but that wasn’t possible before the expansion, Arce said. “The most exciting part of it is the idea that these labores will be protected, and that will help tell a more complete story for the entire park,” Arce said. Adding acreage is considered another boon to efforts to secure World Heritage Site status for the four missions controlled by the park service; the Alamo is owned by the state. Some worry that the missions’ nomination could be hindered by the United States’ ongoing refusal to pay dues to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, or UNESCO, since the organization admitted Palestinians as full members in 2011. UNESCO oversees the World Heritage process. But Doggett pointed out that UNESCO did approve World Heritage status for Poverty Point in Louisiana this year. A decision on the missions is expected next year. “I believe we have a strong application,” Doggett said. ###
12.12.2014	December 11, 2014 To see the video, click the link above or find it here.
12.11.2014	The Austin Chronicle featured Rep. Lloyd Doggett’s comments regarding the Senate’s report on the CIA interrogation program as the “Quote of the Week.”
12.10.2014	Americans have the right to know what brutality is done in their name. See Rep. Lloyd Doggett's comments on KVUE’s analysis of the Senate’s report on the CIA’s interrogation program here. KVUE: Analysis: Will torture report ultimately harm or help? By: Mark Wiggins December 9, 2014 AUSTIN -- In the popular Showtime original series "Homeland," a scene in the first season episode "Blind Spot" depicts a terrorist undergoing enhanced interrogation tactics at the hands of the Central Intelligence Agency. The prisoner is stripped and left in a cold room, where he's deprived of sleep by deafening blasts of heavy metal music. "I think it's a very good depiction of some of the enhanced interrogation tactics that have been used," said Fred Burton, Vice President for Intelligence at Austin-based geopolitical intelligence firm Stratfor. A former counterterrorism investigator with the U.S. Diplomatic Security Service, Burton has investigated everything from Cold War assassinations to the first World Trade Center Bombing in 1993. Burton recalls visits during his federal service to a number of foreign detention facilities where extreme interrogations were conducted. "Most people will tell you anything when they incur pain, and I don't think that they're very successful," Burton told KVUE. "It's never been my experience that they've actually worked." It's the same conclusion reached by the so-called "torture report" released by the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence chaired by Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA). The 525 page summary made public Tuesday gruesomely details interrogations conducted by the CIA on terrorists captured after the September 11 attacks. Read the full report here. The report graphically describes waterboardings, extensive sleep deprivation, beatings and and exposure to hypothermia that may have resulted in at least one death. It accuses the CIA of downplaying the severity of interrogations, actively impeding White House oversight, avoiding investigators and misleading the U.S. Department of Justice. REPUBLICANS Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX) will be the second-highest ranking Republican in the Senate once the new Congress convenes in 2015. The newly-elected GOP whip issued a statement Tuesday calling the report "troubling for a variety of reasons, most of which are not found in its pages." "Enhanced interrogation techniques employed by members of our intelligence community saved American lives, and Senate Democrats should thank these brave men and women who worked to protect us – not vilify them," said Cornyn. "I cannot think of a greater disservice to our men and women serving in the military and in our intelligence field than to hand terror groups like ISIL another recruiting tool and excuse to target them. Due to the political calculations of some, the American people and our allies across the globe are less safe today than they were before." Breaking with many of his Republican colleagues, Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) condemned the CIA's activities. A prisoner of war confined in the "Hanoi Hilton" from 1967 to 1973, McCain was permanently disabled by torture at the hands of his North Vietnamese captors. McCain spoke Tuesday on the Senate floor in support of the document. "It's a thorough and thoughtful study of practices that I believe not only failed their purpose to secure actionable intelligence to prevent further attacks on the US and our allies, but actually damaged our security interests as well as our reputation as a force for good in the world." U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Rep. Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) responded to the report in a statement, "The study authored by Diane Feinstein is deeply flawed, and I am disappointed the democrats and the president declassified it when we are at war with terrorists who will use it as a recruiting propaganda." "Unfortunately, the Democrats have put their own agenda above the impact this report could have on the safety of not only our servicemen and women who are fighting this war overseas, but all Americans and our allies," said McCaul. "It is important to note the intelligence obtained after 9/11 thwarted multiple terrorists plots, and led to the capture and killing of those who wish to do us harm." DEMOCRATS Introducing the report, Sen. Feinstein defended her decision to make the information public by noting "this clearly is a period of turmoil and instability in many parts of the world. Unfortunately, that's going to continue for the foreseeable future, whether this report is released or not." "I think Americans have a right to know when their government engages in brutality," Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-TX 35) told KVUE Tuesday. "What we learned is that torture does not work. It failed, and our country is really left less safe when our values are debased and when our unassailable position on justice and human rights is brought into question." "What endangers Americans is not the truth, but the wrongdoing that occurred here," said Doggett, who calls the CIA's actions "a bureaucracy run amok" with neither accountability nor restraint. While allowing some of those involved may have been motivated by the desire to fight terrorism, Doggett argues such activity makes it more difficult for those abroad to separate America from her enemies. His disappointment is not limited to the Bush administration. "I think there should have been some criminal prosecutions," Doggett said. "Certainly there needs to be accountability within the agency, and I disagree with the current administration that did not raise these issues of wrongdoing when they entered office -- even though it was widely known -- and who seemed to have devoted more effort to redacting and removing certain critical pieces of information from this report and suppressing whistleblowers than demanding that accountability." CONTEXT Burton believes it's important to remember the state of the nation immediately following the catastrophic attacks of September 11, 2001. While it may be easy to point out errors in ethics and judgment now, "The atmospherics around when these decisions were made to go down this garden path were at a different time in our history." "Remember President Bush standing in the rubble of the trade towers' collapse," said Burton. "There was a tremendous amount of fear that additional attacks were going to take place -- to include a potential weapon of mass destruction being detonated on U.S. soil. And as you're standing on the rubble, that kind of fear does manifest itself." Dr. Jeremi Suri is the Mack Brown Distinguished Chair for Leadership in Global Affairs at the University of Texas' Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs. A published expert on global politics, Suri suggests it's important to disentangle what the intelligence agencies told then-President Bush from what they actually did. "From all I've seen, the White House sent a very clear signal to the intelligence agencies after 9/11 that the gloves were coming off and they could do many things they couldn't do before," said Suri. "I don't think the intelligence agencies should be criticized for doing what the White House didn't want them to do," said Suri. "They knew that they had the signal to do this. That said, it doesn't justify this behavior. We still are a society of laws, and a society that does not torture should not undertake torture even if the president of the United States encourages that behavior." SECURITY "The concern is that this information will inspire and encourage people to attack the United States," said Suri, "That they will see this as further evidence of the United States doing the bad things they claim we're doing, and those who want to roust people into doing things violent against Americans oversees might use this as ammunition for their preexisting desire to attack Americans." U.S. diplomatic facilities around the world on are high alert in the event of retaliation. While U.S. Marines have heightened their vigilance, intelligence officials will be monitoring conditions in potential trouble spots for any mob violence. Burton says the worst case scenario would be another situation like the deadly 2012 attack in Benghazi, Libya. "That's my biggest fear," said Burton. While American individuals in potentially hostile regions could be at greater risk than physical government structures, Burton suggests monitoring developments over the next 72 hours will be critical. The disclosures could also hurt the intelligence services of other nations that work discreetly alongside U.S. intelligence agencies, often providing critical human intelligence as well as clandestine locations for conducting interrogations. "How many of them will shut down?" said Burton. "How many of them will choose not to help us going forward? How many of them will remember, 'Yes the Americans promised this would never be made public, now look at what's happened.'" BIG PICTURE The report comes at a time where the U.S. is building political and military coalitions in unstable regions such as Ukraine and the Middle East, and America's ability to maintain and expand those coalitions could be affected. The impact may be felt most acutely in the Middle East, where the U.S. is carefully courting the assistance of wary and often hostile regional powers in the fight against the terrorist group ISIL. "The release of this report will certainly make it harder for the United States to argue that we've always done the right thing in the Middle East and that we've treated all the people from that reason with respect," said Suri. "It will be hard for us to overcome what is already a somewhat negative image." "The positive side of the report is that we're the only side of the world that releases this kind of information, that talks about this," said Suri. "We're an open society, and so the message we want to send to people in the Middle East is not that we're perfect, not that we don't make mistakes, but that we talk about what we've done and we hold ourselves accountable." Suri concedes while that may not immediately please many in the Middle East, it's important for America's long-term interests to morally distinguish itself from other nations as one that wields power responsibly and corrects its mistakes. "We want to show that we're a civilized, humane society," said Suri. "We want to encourage people to want to work with us and we want to encourage people to surrender. If they know they're going to be tortured, they're not going to surrender." ###
12.09.2014	December 9, 2014 The Senate investigation into CIA interrogation upholds the right of Americans to know when their government engages in brutality and deceit. Torture is not only wrong; it did not work. Debasing our country’s values did not make us safer; it only weakened us and our ability to be an unassailable voice for justice and human rights. While the individuals who committed and authorized this outrageous wrongdoing should have been held accountable in court, we can at least expose their criminality to help ensure that it never reoccurs. You can see my further remarks here. ###
12.08.2014	Pat Stout, Chairwoman of the San Antonio Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, is delivering a report on the ‘Impact of Education on Economic Development in Texas’ at this week’s White House Summit on Early Educationin Washington D.C. San Antonio is a leader on the issue of tying quality early education to a higher skilled workforce with innovative programs such as Pre-K for SA. Chairwoman Stout will also be reviewing the report with Congressman Lloyd Doggett, who recommended her for the Summit. ###
12.04.2014	December 4, 2014 Today, the House passed important legislation that includes Rep. Lloyd Doggett's San Antonio Missions National Historical Park Boundary Expansion provision. The measure would expand the boundary of San Antonio Missions National Historical Park by approximately 137 acres near Missions San José, San Juan, and Espada. Rep. Lloyd Doggett also remains hopeful about securing our World Heritage status for the Missions. Not only is this action about our remarkable heritage, but also it is about our ongoing economic progress. See his House Floor speech here. ###
12.02.2014	San Antonio’s WOAI and KABB reported on some of the safety measures you can take to keep children safe from dangerous toys. For a full list of such toys, visit here. To view the video please click the image above, or you can find it here.
12.01.2014	This year, new reforms I authored that will help improve the lives of children subjected to abuse or neglect and prevent the sex trafficking of foster children were passed and signed into law. Although much more remains to be done to protect our children from abuse, these changes are a good step forward. In a San Antonio Express-News column, my work toward reform was recognized.
11.26.2014	Augustin Lucio Jr., a friend for over four decades, was a hero not only for his extraordinary military service against the Nazis, but for his important community leadership against discrimination. As a founder of the American GI Forum, as an advocate for educational opportunity, as the head of a beautiful family, he made San Marcos a much better place. The Austin American-Statesman detailed his life and his significant contributions to our community in an article you can find here.
11.19.2014	November 19, 2014 The Cesar Chavez Foundation in San Antonio used a letter to the President that I signed calling for bold action on immigration at a protest yesterday. I support the good efforts of local groups like the Cesar Chavez Foundation, led by my friend Jaime Martinez, in our work to keep families together.
10.07.2014	Democracy thrives when all citizens can voice their concerns. Rep. Doggett's op-ed about harmful Voter ID laws that disproportionately limit students, minorities, and women from voting in Texas, appeared in The Villager this week. Congress should vote to strengthen the Voting Rights Act, and we can all work together to rid our community of barriers to the ballot box, like Voter ID laws. Read the full comments here.
09.29.2014	U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, Deputy Assistant Secretary Dr. Libby Doggett Visit Pre-K 4 SA in San Antonio Washington— U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee and House Budget Committee, and Dr. Libby Doggett, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy and Early Learning at the Department of Education, visited San Antonio’s Pre-K 4 SA facility that recently opened for this academic year. The Doggetts toured the new facility, hosted a meet-and-greet with parents of students, and spoke with faculty and staff about the importance of early childhood education. “Quality early childhood education is an important indicator of later educational success for a student.” said Rep. Lloyd Doggett. “I was inspired by the commitment of the teachers and staff, the eagerness of the students, and the dedication of their parents in helping make Pre-K 4 SA a success. It is a model for the country.” Pre-K 4 SA is a full-day prekindergarten program for four-year-olds living in the City of San Antonio, and currently serves 500 students with full-day Pre-K instruction. It is free for qualifying students and also accepts tuition-paying students. Meals for students are included and free transportation is available to all students. Pre-K 4 SA will have four Education Centers located throughout the City for the 2014-2015 school year. ###
09.29.2014	Rep. Lloyd Doggett discussed the status of World Heritage designation for the San Antonio Missions with Missions National Historical Park Superintendent Mardi Arce, among others. ###
09.26.2014	September 26, 2014 by: Robert Rivard The scene at Wheatley Courts Thursday morning was part tent revival, part civic pep rally, and part impromptu dance party. A public event to commemorate the looming demolition of one of San Antonio’s oldest public housing projects turned into a celebration. Among the morning’s speakers and audience, there was no lack of appreciation or nostalgia for Wheatley Courts Homes or its indelible presence in the Eastside’s social fabric and history, but the energy in the air was all about the future of the neighborhood. “We recognize that sometimes you have to tear down to build up,” U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett said as the event got underway. “We are laying a new foundation today.” Between now and 2017, Wheatley Courts will become home to 417 new residential units. Tenants have been temporarily moved to other residences; all have been promised the opportunity to return. Quite a few residents attended Thursday in a demonstration of continued commitment to the neighborhood. Phase One of the redevelopment includes construction of 220 mixed-income units, with a guarantee from the San Antonio Housing Authority of a “one for one” policy so no residents will be denied the opportunity to return. Seventy percent of the units will be set aside for lower-income residents, while 30% will be priced at market rate. The transformation will be about more than residential units. Streets, sidewalks, lighting, and landscaping all will be upgraded, helping to create a pedestrian and bike-friendly community. Nearby Menger Creek and the surrounding land will be cleaned up and developed into an outdoor recreational amenity. “There have been lots of times when people said it’s never going to happen,” said Beverly Watts Davis, the director of SAHA’s Choice Neighborhood Programs. “Well, now is the time. This is our time. We are going to make this work.” She closed her remarks with a flourish: “As they say at church…” “Amen!” the crowd responded. “The County is playing a role in this project,too,” said Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff, who received an enthusiastic welcome equal to that given Mayor Taylor when he was introduced. Wolff promised the County would open a new BiblioTech digital library on the property as well as a University Health System medical clinic. Wolff then touched on a political theme, one that aroused the audience and that other speakers would echo: “I can’t say enough about Mayor Taylor. Anybody who thinks she was just going to be there for a while…” Applause and shouts cut off the rest of his sentence. Then it was Taylor’s turn. “It’s important to acknowledge that at one point in time in our history Wheatley Courts represented progress in our community, but it’s time to turn the page,” Mayor Taylor said. “This has been a long-awaited day … This is something so many of us have been working on for so long, and at last, it’s in sight. And it’s the result of so much collaboration.” Taylor cited United Way, the San Antonio Independent School District, SAHA, the City and the County as all playing key roles. Her District 2 Council replacement followed. “The Honorable Ivy Taylor,” Councilmember Keith Toney trumpeted, drawing another round of applause for the mayor as she sat down. “We are going to get accustomed to saying that … she deserves it. She works so hard.” The crowd responded enthusiastically, and with each day Taylor is in office as interim mayor, speculation grows that she will announce her intentions to seek the office in May, an announcement that, if it does come, likely would happen after the Nov. 4 general election and before the end of the year. “I am proud to represent District 2,” Toney said. “There have been so many promises made, so many promises broken.” SAHA CEO Lourdes Castro Ramirez, who awaits Senate confirmation of her nomination as Assistant HUD Secretary sometime after the November election, reminisced how a $250,000 grant to explore neighborhood revitalization on the Eastside eventually grew to a $100 million commitment from Washington and local government. “One of the constants of the process has been the engagement and the hopes and the dreams of the residents,” she said, thanking them for enduring the discomfort of being moved to make the redevelopment possible. “Wheatley Courts has been home for more than 70 years to so many families, and we are committed to making this community home for the next generation of families. “This is so much more than the redevelopment of public housing,” Castro Ramirez said. “This is the transformation of a neighborhood.” Sylvester Perez, SAISD superintendent, promised a transformation of Wheatley Middle School, which he said had the highest percentage of academic improvement in the district. He also drew strong applause when he spoke about Sam Houston High School, once targeted for closure, as dramatically increasing its graduation rate and growing its student body by 160 students last year and 75 students this academic year. “Sam is back!” he declared. Wheatley Middle School will be transformed into Wheatley Community School, offering classes in the daytime and a range of community services in the evenings and on weekends, including adult literacy classes and community health programs. The roster of official speakers was long Thursday, but the last word went to LaShawn Robertson, a resident. “We’re here today for the demolition of Wheatley Homes, which has been our home for many, many years and brings tears of sadness,” she said. “But it also brings tears of joy. On behalf of all the residents, we can’t wait to come home.” Robertson was invited by Mayor Taylor and others to take control of a staged detonator that triggered a confetti bomb that rained down on the dignitaries. If anyone wants to understand the rhythm of political change at City Hall, it was right there on stage as the air filled with colorful confetti and Mayor Taylor and Councilmember Toney, both sporting hard hats, started boogying to “Celebration,” the 2003 hit song by Christian pop group Jump5. With all due respect to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, can anyone imagine former Mayor Julián Castro being the first one out on the dance floor at an 11 a.m. urban renewal event? If that wasn’t photo-op enough for the gathered media, Mayor Taylor then climbed into a nearby front-loader to symbolize the pending demolition of the 70-year-old public housing project that will soon give way to neighborhood transformation unlike anything yet seen on the city’s historically neglected Eastside. The mayor didn’t actually drive the heavy machinery. Demolition of the now-empty housing project would await another day, but not for long. Footnote: Thursday was an unmistakable expression of community pride, both in Mayor Taylor, sworn into office on July 22 to complete the unexpired term of former Mayor Castro, and in the selection of San Antonio’s Eastside as one of five nationalPromise Zone neighborhoods by HUD. Wheatley Courts is named for America’s first published African-American poet, Phyllis Wheatley, born in Africa and pressed into slavery, then brought to Boston in the 18th century and subsequently named by the prosperous Boston merchant who purchased her. Her development into a poet of considerable fame led her to a performance tour of England, and at home, to meet and read for then-Gen. George Washington. It is an extraordinary story not found in any of the histories of the American Colonies or Revolutionary War I’ve read. Wheatley was eventually emancipated, but the man she married died in debtor’s prison, and she and her children ended up living a life of abject poverty. All the more reason to give new life to her legacy in the neighborhood that bears her name with pride.
09.23.2014	Public schools give more than just an education to our children, they bring neighbors together and unite communities. Yesterday I told students at Bryker Woods about my own time there—see the full clip here:
09.17.2014	September 17, 2014 ISIS’s barbarity deserves a forceful response. But rejecting the amendment to trainthe Syrian rebelsin Saudi Arabia as I urged today on the House floor, here, does not mean doing nothing. The President already has the necessary authority to take out those who murder Americans, to launch a rescue mission, as he attempted, and to prevent an imminent massacre as he did with the Yazidis.
09.17.2014	
09.17.2014	September 16, 2014
09.08.2014	August 29, 2014 By Deborah Cannon
09.05.2014	By John MacCormack August 30, 2014 | Updated: August 30, 2014 9:54pm Kin Man Hui, San Antonio Express-News Henry Cisneros (from left), U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett and Jaime Martinez of the Cesar E. Chavez Legacy and Educational Foundation headline a town hall meeting and discussion panel at Immaculate Conception Church on Saturday, August 30, 2014. With immigration reform stuck axle-deep in the federal mud of Washington, more than 100 citizens and activists gathered Saturday at a town hall meeting to try to figure out how to give it a little push. The message was anything but subtle: “President Obama: Sign an Executive Order Now. Stop Deportations and Family Separations,” read the large sign hung in the parish hall of Immaculate Conception Church deep on the West Side. All around were potent iconic symbols of the Chicano civil rights movement, from portraits of César Chávez with Bobby Kennedy and Martin Luther King, to the black eagle flag of the United Farm Workers Union to aging activists in Brown Beret garb. And at critical moments, the crowd burst out in the old rallying cry “Si se puede!” Among the speakers and organizers was Jaime Martinez, a son of the local barrio and a much-loved longtime activist. He got the meeting rolling with a personal story familiar to many of those present. “My grandparents were immigrants, Mexican migrant workers, who came at the turn of the century, seeking the American dream,” said Martinez, founder of the César E. Chávez Education and Legacy Fund. “We have a tough struggle ahead of us, but we're used to tough struggles. Immigration reform is coming. Write your congressman,” he urged. Among the roughly 100 attendees were students from Palo Alto College who came for both extra credit and a front-row seat to history in the making. And there was a lot of history present in a humble hall normally used for weddings and prayer meetings. Among the 10 panel members were U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, former Mayor Henry Cisneros and former District 5 Councilman Bernardo Euresti. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (center) is applauded after his immigration speech at the town hall meeting. Cisneros, who is co-chair of a bipartisan task force grappling with the immigration issue, pulled no punches in describing the sad state of things in Washington. “Immigration reform, which God knows we need, is stalled. Dead stopped, principally because of the Republican Congress,” he told the crowd. “We have 12 million people living in this country, living in the shadows, who deserve better,” Cisneros added. And so, he said, the only short-term chance for any reform will come from executive orders from the president, something that he said is sure to provoke a fierce partisan response. “We'll see a political fight the likes of which we haven't seen in a long time. But human rights, human suffering is what is involved, and that's why we believe the president is on the right path,” he said. Doggett, whose lavish introduction provoked a quick round of “Si se puede,” walked the crowd through the last two years of congressional failure to act on immigration reform, and said there is no relief in sight. Kin Man Hui, San Antonio Express-News The Cesar E. Chavez Legacy and Educational Foundation holds a town hall meeting and discussion panel at Immaculate Conception Church on Saturday, August 30, 2014. Jaime Martinez, Henry Cisneros and Congressman Lloyd Doggett were featured speakers at the event. “We're not going to move the Congress, but we might move the president, who has done the right thing in the past,” he said. “I want to see the president use his executive power to the maximum possible to fix a problem that needs to be fixed,” he said. Doggett also took a few jabs at Gov. Rick Perry, a potential 2016 presidential candidate, for his recent actions on border security in response to a large influx of Central Americans, many of them children. “We are seeing the National Guard sent to the border. I call it “Operation Iowa Caucus,” he said. “They're put there to look tough, someone with a gun to greet those dangerous children when they arrive in our country,” he added.
07.29.2014	by David Gelle July 29, 2014 Legislators in Washington ratcheted up the pressure on Tuesday on companies seeking tax relief by moving overseas, introducing a bill that would withhold government contracts from companies that undertake so-called inversion deals. The No Federal Contracts for Corporate Deserters Act – introduced by four Democrats, Senators Richard Durbin of Illinois and Carl Levin of Michigan, and Representatives Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut and Lloyd Doggett of Texas – seeks to discourage companies from reincorporating abroad by threatening to withhold federal dollars from the offending companies. “With every successful inversion, the tax burden increases on the rest of us to pay what the corporate inverter doesn’t,” Mr. Durbin said in a statement. “The burden is made worse by allowing companies to profit off of federal contracts paid for by U.S. taxpayers, while those very companies run from their U.S. tax responsibility. We should make permanent the longstanding ban on federal contracts for corporations that have renounced their American corporate citizenship.” The legislation would be retroactive, affecting any company that had not finalized its inversion by May of 2014. That would affect Medtronic and AbbVie, two big health care companies that have struck deals that will allow them to move abroad. And the bill would affect the Walgreen Company, the big American pharmacy chain, should it attempt an inversion when it completes its buyout of the British pharmacy chain Alliance Boots. The No Federal Contracts for Corporate Deserters Act would also allow federal agencies to stop doing business with companies if they subcontract with inverted corporations, potentially widening the scope of those affected. But the prospect of such legislation being enacted remained slim. While both Republicans and Democrats have expressed a willingness to pass legislation targeting inversions, Republicans have said any bill passed should not be retroactive. This is only the most recent anti-inversion legislation to be introduced. The Stop Corporate Inversions Act of 2014 was introduced in May by Mr. Levin and his brother, Representative Sander Levin, the ranking member on the House Ways and Means Committee. That bill, which is also retroactive, has failed to gain traction. “Corporations that renounce their citizenship not only invert their business operations but pervert our laws,” Mr. Doggett said. “Those dodging their fair share of taxes should not be rewarded with taxpayer-funded government contracts.”
07.29.2014	Click here or on the image below to play the clip
07.29.2014	Click here or the image below for the story.
07.24.2014	July 24, 2014 Reps. Lloyd Doggett (TX), Juan Vargas (CA), and Zoe Lofgren (CA), all Democrats, took to the House floor this morning for a series of speeches about the children’s crisis at the border and how legal protections for them should be rolled back. Republicans have now spent weeks arguing that the children should be sent back immediately — but as others have pointed out, the US has a responsibility for the children if sending them back would mean their deaths. Watch the video of the House Democrats speaking today: From Rep. Doggett: Even as the House has unanimously approved seven different bills to fight the scourge of sex trafficking, the choir to strip rights from some children persist. Indeed, at the very same time that our Republican colleagues were speaking here on the floor about doing whatever it takes to protect vulnerable children, they were demanding that immigrant children be sent back immediately. Support for exploited children, which existed across this aisle, must extend to children who were born on both sides of the border. Sadly, fear and hysteria are creating a steady drumbeat to remove legal protections against trafficking for children who are simply seeking refuge here. Exploited children cannot be politically exploited. We cannot accept every one of them. We’re not asking for amnesty. But how about a little human decency? A little humanity? How about following existing law and supplying the resources to see that it is effectively implemented? Rep. Vargas, quoting the Rabbi Asher Knight of Dallas: “The question for us is, how do we want to be remembered? As yelling and screaming to go back? Or as using the teachings of our traditions to have compassion and love and grace for the lives of God’s children?” And Rep. Zoe Lofgren: In this country we’ve reached a consensus that victims of human trafficking should be provided help. Now there is a discussion of truncating that protection, and we must say that would be wrong. We know that for child victims, special care must be taken to elicit the facts of what has happened. The idea that we would short-circuit that process for human trafficking victims are our border is unconscionable.
06.20.2014	Don’t be Stampeded Into War Click image or here for video. Washington-- U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), who was actively involved in opposing the authorization for President Bush to invade Iraq, spoke on the House floor concerning the legal basis for any future action in Iraq: “This Congress has a constitutional obligation to approve military action before any President decides to shoot first and ask questions later. A twelve-year-old resolution, enacted in the aftermath of 9/11, should not provide a basis for endless war.” “Some of the same self-certified smart people, who were talking about mushroom clouds and weapons of mass destruction, are once again trying to stampede us into war. We’ve been there and done that, and America is still paying a terrible price for their past failures, though they refuse to acknowledge them.” “Protecting our embassy in Baghdad, that’s one thing, or responding to a true emergency, but if any president wants to launch offensive military action, they need to come and make specific case to this Congress for authorization, Just as President Obama said he would do last year regarding Syria, not some convoluted interpretation of a resolution from a different time and circumstance.” “If there is a case for war, have the courage to come here and make it, but don’t rely on an open-ended authorization of military force from long ago.” Hereis Rep. Doggett’s October 2002 House floor speech warning against invading Iraq. ###
06.20.2014	Click here or the image above to view the video.
06.04.2014	View my response to latest VA allegations in this WOAI News 4 San Antonio news report here.
06.04.2014	The Ways & Means Committee approved a bill to make a bonus depreciation tax break permanent that would add nearly $300 billion to the deficit. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) noted that the legislation is not supported by the evidence. For every dollar spent on this tax break, there is a return on investment of about 20 cents. “At the same time we are told there is not enough for our schools or crumbling infrastructure, we cannot afford another ‘bonus’ for business. Like the ancient alchemists who thought they could change straw into gold, this bill won’t stimulate our economy. I’m for pro-growth, pro-job creation policies, but we should not waste money on tax benefits that don’t work.” Watch the video of Rep. Lloyd Doggett’s comments here.
06.04.2014	The Ways & Means Committee approved a bill to subsidize “apparently wholesome” foods, with no nutritional value, like Twinkies, candy, stale potato chips, and expired foods. This occurred at the same time as another House committee lowered nutritional standards for school lunches. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) replied that the legislation “would do for our economy what Twinkies do for our nutrition. It’s all about choices. Today, Republicans spend $200 million annually on an overbroad tax subsidy, while telling us we cannot afford more for our schools.” Watch the video of Rep. Lloyd Doggett’s comments here.
05.30.2014	U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), issued the following statement after the resignation of General Eric Shinseki, the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs: “The focus should remain on getting significant improvement at the VA. Most who work at the VA, many vets themselves, care deeply for those they serve. We must not allow those who do not believe in our vets health system to use these incidents to undermine it. Let’s fix it, not break it. While General Shinseki is a decorated American patriot, who has offered important service to our country, I believe new leadership can more effectively secure prompt change and accountability."
05.05.2014	By: Russell Wilde, Time Warner Cable News Austin May 04, 2014 Travis Austin Recovery Group is the organization working on the long-term recovery for areas affected by the Halloween floods. Rosa Villegas is the co-chair of the organization, and her home was also damaged in the floods. Like many others, she remains in limbo. "My house is still not ready," she said. "It’s still pretty empty. I’m kind of waiting to see what the city is going to decide to do.” Many of her neighbors are waiting too, and frustration is growing. “I’ve called seven different times and no one has yet has done me the courtesy to return my call," one resident said. Starting Friday, the nonprofit group World Renew will go door to door in flood-damaged areas to find out what people still need to fully recover from the flood. “The most important thing to do is to listen to this neighborhood," Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas, said. "The more that the neighborhood can speak with one voice based on this important survey, the better off we will be.” The findings of that survey will be used to help aid organizations identify the needs each residence still has and hopefully find a way meet them. For Villegas and many others, they need answers. “There’s just too many questions," she said. "It’s very frustrating, and I can tell that my neighbors are very frustrated. They have a lot of unanswered questions and people not able to provide certain answers because it’s still a work in progress.” You can learn more about the help that is available at targetingrecovery.org. You can view the video here.
04.29.2014	April 29, 2014 Washington-- Today, the Ways and Means Committee, on which Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D) serves, voted to make permanent corporate tax breaks totaling $310 billion, while striking a provision that would have helped abused foster children find work, that cost about $1 million a year. Rep. Doggett stated: “I am pleased that my Democratic colleagues rejected these tax breaks. Today, the Committee gave partisan approval for six unfunded corporate tax breaks that cost $310 billion dollars, but would not approve $1 million per year to help foster youth turned out on the street. The Republicans dig us deeper into an economic hole; foster children get left in it. Creating a costly permanent tax loophole for controlled foreign corporations is wrong. I am objecting to this provision and another not just because they are unpaid for, I am objecting because they are not worth paying for.” A link to Rep. Doggett’s remarks can be seen here. Also, a letter of 50 national organizations urging our Committee not to renew and make permanent two tax breakscan be found here.
04.21.2014	April 16, 2014 by Laurel White, Medill News Service/Texas Tribune WASHINGTON — A law enforcement training center based at Texas State University in San Marcos may receive millions of federal dollars to support programs that train officers how to handle situations like the recent Fort Hood shooting. U. S. Attorney General Eric Holder on Tuesday cited the recent tragedy at Fort Hood as he asked Congress to authorize a combined $15 million for “active shooter response training” and other officer safety initiatives. “In the face of this urgent and growing threat — when the lives of innocent people are at stake — those who stand on the front lines need our full and unwavering support,” Holder said. Texas State University’s Advanced Law Enforcement Rapid Response Training (ALERRT) Center is the national leader for active shooter training programs funded by the Department of Justice. It has trained more than 50,000 officers nationwide in the past decade, using more than $30 million in state and federal grant money, according to the center. Active shooter training teaches law enforcement how to isolate, distract and neutralize an active shooter. It also shows officers how to effectively enter and move around a room when they’re handling a situation alone. “The additional funds would allow us to reach more people,” said Pete Blair, director of research at ALERRT. “Obviously, we’d like to roll out the training to every officer we can reach – the more funding, the more officers we can reach.” Blair said that ALERRT has a waitlist with more than 300 requests for training from 42 states. In Woodway, Texas, outside of Waco, the current president of the International Association of Chiefs of Police said the potential cash influx would be a boon for first responders. “We’re very much in favor of additional support for active shooter training,” said Yousry Zakhary, who is also director of the Woodway public safety department. “We must be prepared for the worst.” Zakhary said he hopes that active shooter training becomes standard for officers, “just like learning how to drive a car or shoot a weapon.” He said that he has visited many officers who would appreciate additional training. “ALERRT at Texas State has been on the job for years, through these recurrent tragedies, preparing law enforcement and educators in responding to active shooters,” said U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, whose district includes San Marcos. “Approving the attorney general’s recommendation for more federal funding would help ALERRT to do more and protect more by giving first responders the tools they need to react as effectively and efficiently as possible.” Holder said the average number of annual active shooter incidents has roughly tripled since 2009. “Each of these tragic events is a heartbreaking reminder that mass shootings are all too common,” he said. Four people were killed and 16 injured earlier this month at Fort Hood when Spc. Ivan Lopez opened fire on the base. Lopez was among the dead. In 2009, 13 people were killed and 32 were wounded in a similar mass shooting on base. The $15 million is part of the $27 billion Justice Department budget for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. It is currently being debated by Congress, with subcommittee hearings set for later this month.
04.02.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), a senior member of the House Committee on Ways and Means and the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Human Resources, has been reappointed to serve on the House Budget Committee just in time for today’s Committee consideration of this year’s House Budget Resolution. He has served on the Budget Committee during five previous sessions of Congress (1995-1998 and 2007-2012). Rep. Lloyd Doggett stated: “As we mark the 50th Anniversary of LBJ’s War on Poverty, our federal budget should build on efforts to boost those struggling to climb the bottom rungs of the economic ladder. The size of our deficit, our tax rates, are important, but they are not the sole lenses through which the strength of America should be viewed. A truly balanced budget is measured not just in dollars but in the educational opportunity afforded our youth, the dignity offered seniors, and the level of its investment designed to ensure an America that is competitive in the world economy.” ###
03.26.2014	March 26, 2014 Washington—Today, after a push by Representative Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, and Representative Louise Slaughter (D-NY), an original author of the Violence Against Women Act, the United States Department of Treasury and Internal Revenue Service released guidance that will allow domestic violence survivors to access ACA benefits. Last week, Representatives Doggett and Slaughter, along with 75 of their colleagues, called on the Treasury Department to allow survivors of domestic violence equal access to health care under the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Treasury regulations released in May 2012 required married couples to file joint income tax returns to obtain premium tax credits. Under the Affordable Care Act, low-and-middle-income Americans, defined as individuals earning less than $44,200 (four times the poverty rate) and families of four earning less than $90,100, are eligible for premium assistance tax credits when purchasing insurance on the individual market. Today, the Treasury Department sent a letter to Representatives Doggett and Slaughter saying that the Department and IRS were releasing guidance providing that “a married individual who is living apart from his or her spouse, and who is unable to file a joint return as a result of domestic abuse, will be permitted to claim a premium tax credit for 2014 while filing a tax return with a filing status of married filing separately.” For partners who may be financially dependent on an abusive partner, this guidance will remove an undue burden that could subject survivors to further danger. In order to accommodate this change, Health and Human Services has extended the enrollment deadline for survivors of domestic violence until May 31. View the letter from Treasury here. “Domestic abuse victims finally have some assurance that they can access tax credits to make health insurance affordable without relying upon those who abused them. Today’s dual Administration announcement means that they have two additional months to use this information in choosing the best insurance policy,” Rep. Doggett said. “I appreciate the prompt response to our congressional request, but Treasury now needs to move forward more expeditiously to get final regulations adopted this year.” “Survivors of domestic violence should not have to depend on their abuser to gain access to affordable health care, and I’m glad the Treasury Department will ensure that no longer happens,” Rep. Slaughter said. “Before the ACA, eight states and the District of Columbia allowed insurance companies to label domestic violence as a pre-existing condition and subsequently denied coverage to battered spouses – the insurance companies figured if someone had been beaten up once, they would be beaten up again and would be too expensive to insure. Now that the ACA ended that insidious practice, Treasury must quickly implement this rule so these survivors are able to access the health care they need and end the cycle of abuse without these unnecessary barriers.” According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, the likelihood of domestic abuse goes up as incomes go down. Numerous studies have shown economic dependence is a primary reason women stay with or return to an abusive partner. Women who are more economically dependent on an abusive partner are also less likely to pursue restraining orders. Independent access to healthcare is crucial to breaking the cycle of abuse and economic dependency. Please find the full letter from Reps. Slaughter and Doggett to Treasury below: Dear Secretary Lew: We write to express our strong concern regarding victims of domestic abuse, who are currently unable to fully realize the benefits of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). It has come to our attention that some of these victims are facing unique barriers to qualifying for lower monthly premiums as they search for and purchase health care coverage. We join our Senate colleague, Senator Mark Begich of Alaska, in urging your swift action on this issue. With just two weeks before the enrollment deadline and no clear guidance, we urge you to provide guidance to these individuals now and to issue proposed regulations promptly to prevent ongoing confusion in future open enrollment periods. Specifically, we ask you to implement policies that would allow victims of domestic abuse to access the full amount of premium assistance tax credits for which they qualify, even when they choose to file a tax return separately from their spouse. To protect themselves from the ongoing threat of violent abuse, it is common for victims of domestic violence to file taxes separately from their spouse. However, the current regulations implementing Section 36B of the Affordable Care Act provide that married taxpayers who do not file a joint return are not eligible for premium tax credits. In its final regulations regarding premium tax credits, issued nearly two years ago, the Treasury Department acknowledged this issue and stated that it “intends to propose additional regulations regarding eligibility for the premium tax credit to address circumstances in which domestic abuse, abandonment, or similar circumstances create obstacles to the ability of taxpayers to file joint returns.” Individuals who have endured domestic violence and those who are helping them in enroll in health insurance plans still await these additional regulations and guidance for making coverage decisions. We supported health care reform for many reasons, including provisions that would help break the cycle of abuse. Prior to the ACA, eight states and the District of Columbia considered domestic violence a pre-existing condition and survivors could be denied coverage on those grounds. In addition to making health coverage more affordable, the ACA requires many insurance plans to cover preventative services with no cost-sharing. These services include screening for interpersonal and domestic violence, acts which can lead to chronic health problems, injury, and death. It is our hope that the goals of affordable health care provision and domestic violence prevention are fully realized by proper implementation.
03.06.2014	March 6, 2014 Congressman Doggett: In my questioning of Treasury Secretary Jack Lew about the President’s budget proposal, he agreed that “our tax code should not encourage the export of American jobs.” Too many major corporations pay their executives and lobbyists more than they pay in corporate taxes. We should be coming together to close these corporate tax loopholes that unfairly shift the tax burden to small businesses and individuals. Watch questioning here.
03.06.2014	March 6, 2014 Congressman Doggett: In my questioning of Treasury Secretary Jack Lew about the President’s budget proposal, he agreed that “our tax code should not encourage the export of American jobs.” Too many major corporations pay their executives and lobbyists more than they pay in corporate taxes. We should be coming together to close these corporate tax loopholes that unfairly shift the tax burden to small businesses and individuals. Watch questioning here.
03.06.2014	March 5, 2014 Click here to watch Congressman Doggett's statement. The City of Austin has been awarded nearly $12 million in federal funding for the Onion Creek, Lower Colorado River Basin project. The funds will be used for property buyouts in the floodplain. Late Tuesday, Austin Mayor Lee Leffingwell received word from officials with President Barack Obama's administration that the funds would be included in the President’s Fiscal Year 2014 work plan.“I cannot express enough gratitude to the Obama Administration and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for the Onion Creek funding,” said Mayor Lee Leffingwell. “This project has been a passion of mine since I served on the City of Austin’s Environmental Board, beginning in 1999. However, the Halloween floods put an urgency on this project that the White House recognized. We will be able to help a lot of families with this money and these additional federal funds bring us one step closer to a safer Austin.” The Mayor went on note the tireless efforts of U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett for his determination to secure funding, noting that the Onion Creek project is within the Doggett’s congressional district. Additionally, Leffingwell thanked the entire Austin area congressional legislative delegation for their support of the project.“After almost two decades of working on this, we finally have some results,” said U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett. “I salute Mayor Leffingwell for his determined commitment and partnership in achieving this success. After such tough times for so many in Dove Springs and others along Onion Creek, I hope this means that more of our neighbors will finally get an answer to whether they move or repair. I will continue working with the Corps, the City and County to implement this funding as quickly as possible.” The City of Austin has spent $36.5 million, including $7.8 from a FEMA grant, on the project. This included relocating over 300 households and developing a plan to restore Onion Creek to its natural habitat. Austin City Manager Marc Ott added, “The positive impact that these funds will have for the Onion Creek area cannot be overstated. We are grateful to the Obama administration and Congressman Doggett for their support in helping our residents continue to recover from the devastating floods. I look forward to what the future holds for the Onion Creek community.” Key highlights in the projects history include: After a 1998 flash flood in the area, the City of Austin invited the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to partner with the City to address the flooding problem and Congressman Doggett secured funding for the Corps to undertake a study of the area. Doggett has made requests for Onion Creek funding in every subsequent session of Congress. Since 1999, the City of Austin has proactively pursued buyouts in the area. Lee Leffingwell, first as an Environmental Board Member, then as Council Member and now as Mayor has championed the project, speaking to Members of Congress, senior members of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and as recently as January 2014, senior White House officials. In 2000, the City of Austin and Travis County received about $1 million in federal funding to purchase 21 homes in the floodplain. In 2006, Austin voters approved $28 million in bond money to support the project and the City of Austin received a $7.8 million federal Hazard Mitigation Grant, which was used to buy out 114 properties. In 2007, the plan received flood control project authorization. Complete funding had been stalled in budget negotiations between the U.S. House & Senate. In October 2013 a flash flood in Onion Creek flooded 1,100 homes and killed four people. The City of Austin has exceeded its $20.9 million cost share for buyouts by $5.4 million, acquiring 332 properties out of 483 in the project area (as of 9/15/13). Click here to read Congressman Doggett's 1998 annoucement of funding for Onion Creek..
02.27.2014	February 26, 2014 Washington— U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett, a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee, today made the following statement on the tax proposal released by Chairman Dave Camp:“I admire Chairman Camp’s persistence, but giant multinationals have been even more persistent at preserving their tax advantages. These complex proposals appear to further indulge those already dodging their fair share of our national security costs by shipping both jobs and profits offshore. While “H.R. 1” was originally set aside for tax reform as the top Republican congressional priority, no bill has been filed 14 months later. Instead of a bill we still have only a blank that reads, “Reserved for the Speaker.” I salute the extensive work reflected in Chairman Camp’s draft, which deserves our careful consideration. It contains some improvements, but we should work together to do better for both individual and small business taxpayers.”
02.18.2014	Join me on Saturday, March 15 for a health care event that I am pleased to host in conjunction with the West San Antonio Chamber of Commerce and local agencies from 10:00a.m.-1:00p.m. at El Progreso Hall, 1306 Guadalupe St, 78207. This event is free and open to the public, and we will provide information on how to purchase health insurance and where to get help. Please make sure you bring the following with you in order to register. Social Security Numbers (or document numbers for legal immigrants) Employer and income information for every member of your household who needs coverage (for example, from pay stubs or W-2 forms—Wage and Tax Statements) Policy numbers for any current health insurance plans covering members of your household A completed Employer Coverage Tool for every job-based plan you or someone in your household is eligible for, even if you don’t enroll in it I look forward to seeing you!
01.29.2014	January 29, 2014 Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) introduced the Stop Subsidizing Multimillion Dollar Corporate Bonuses Act. Most Americans would probably be surprised to learn that multimillion dollar executive bonuses are currently tax write-offs. President Obama highlighted the growing problem of income inequality in last night’s State of the Union Address. This legislation addresses two factors driving the widening gap: exorbitant executive pay and corporate tax avoidance. Rep. Doggett’s bill would close a major loophole in current corporate tax law by putting an end to unlimited tax write-offs on executive pay. Over a 10-year window, the Joint Committee on Taxation estimates this legislation would close a loophole that costs U.S. taxpayers over $50 billion. Rep. Doggett said, “Our current tax law has a perverse incentive for companies: the more you pay your executives, the less you’ll pay in taxes. This bill says to the JP Morgan Chases of the world: You can choose to pay Jamie Dimon $20 million, in a year that his bank paid billions in penalties for wrongdoing; just don’t expect the American taxpayer to pick up your tab. As we push for a living wage for all Americans, why should working Americans subsidize those making nearly 300 times the average worker?” In 1993, Congress limited the deductibility of certain executive pay to $1 million, with an exception for performance-based compensation. As a result, over the last two decades, compensation packages for top executives have often been structured to avoid paying taxes on corporate earnings. The Economic Policy Institute estimates that between 2007 and 2010, a total of $121.5 billion in executive compensation was deductible from corporate earnings, and roughly 55 percent of this total was for performance-based compensation. U.S. Senators Jack Reed (D-RI) and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) introduced identical legislation, S. 1476, last year. The bill is endorsed by Public Citizen, Americans for Financial Reform, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Service Employees International Union, and the Institute for Policy Studies, Global Economy Project. The Stop Subsidizing Multimillion Dollar Corporate Bonuses Act would allow a publicly-traded corporation to deduct only up to $1 million in pay per employee, closing the existing loophole by: · Broadening the scope of corporations subject to 162(m) -- o FROM: “publically held corporations that issue any class of common equity securities registered under section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the ’34 Act)” o TO: “any corporation that qualifies as an issuer whose securities are registered under section 12 of the ‘34 Act or that is required to file reports under section 15(d) of the ‘34 Act.” The effect of this would be to capture all corporations that file periodic reports, such as quarterly and annual filings, with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for the benefit of investors. · Broadening the number of employees -- o FROM: “the CEO and the 3 highest compensated officers” o TO: “all current and former employees.” · Eliminating the exception for commission-based remuneration and for performance-based compensation.
01.28.2014	January 28, 2014 The FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) for the 2014-15 school year is availableonline. Students in the San Antonio area can attend “Student Aid San Antonio” every Saturday in February at the Dr. Manuel P. Berriozábal Café College to get help completing the FAFSA. Students in the Austin area can take advantage of “Financial Aid Saturdays” sessions hosted by the Austin Chamber. Click on the links below to access the FAFSA and for more information about these help sessions. I successfully included language in the last Higher Education Reauthorization Act that allows individuals to automatically import their tax data from the IRS, reducing, at least a little, ofthis application’s previous complexity. Helpful links: Ed.gov 2014-2015 FAFSA Now Available Dr. Manuel P. Berriozábal Café College Austin Chamber - Financial Aid Saturdays
01.13.2014	January 13, 2014 Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett spoke on the House floor of the importance of giving diplomacy a chance to succeed with Iran. Next Monday, January 20, when our country honors the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Iran will roll back parts of its nuclear program as negotiations begin on a permanent agreement. Hope for a nonviolent resolution of our conflict with Iran will appropriately advance on a day honoring nonviolence. To prevent a nuclear-armed Iran and to ensure the safety of our families, a measurable, verifiable negotiated agreement is the wiser course over the unknowable, unlimited risk of war. You can view the speech here or read it below. January 13, 2014 Remarks by Rep. Lloyd Doggett Next Monday, when our country honors an apostle of nonviolence, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Iran will begin reducing its nuclear stockpile. This important action is part of an international agreement to begin implementing the interim Joint Plan of Action that was announced in November. Hope for a nonviolent resolution of our conflict with Iran will appropriately advance on a day that honors nonviolence. Some in Congress have been unwilling to accept these negotiations or to acknowledge that the Administration has been successful in uniting other countries around the world in enforcing sanctions against Tehran. Indeed, in what appears to have been largely a partisan outcry, some of our colleagues condemned the November agreement late on the Saturday night when it was announced without knowing what was in it other than President Obama had approved it. As a Member myself who has consistently voted here to impose tough economic sanctions on Iran, I believe those sanctions have worked. The choice is not between sanctions and no sanctions. It is between recognizing that our sanctions have the potential to realize our goals and not give up on them without really trying. The Iranians are well aware that this Congress can act almost instantly to add even more stringent sanctions if they waver from diplomacy. Can we trust the current Iranian regime? Of course not. That is why the painstaking task of verifying every operational detail of any final agreement is so important. If done with the thoroughness required, this is a task that may well take more than six months. But as negotiations for a permanent agreement get underway, we will have new, regular inspections to verify compliance—something we have not had in the past. To prevent a nuclear-armed Iran and to ensure the safety of our families and families around the world, a measurable, verifiable negotiated agreement is the wiser course over the unknowable, unlimited risk of war. Those who would intrude on these fragile negotiations now only increase the danger of Iran becoming a nuclear-armed power. They would undermine the international coalition that has enforced the existing sanctions. And they would empower those hardline ayatollahs, giving them a pretext to stop progress, giving that to the very people who reject any cooperation and regularly demand death to America and death to Israel. Congress must not impede the diplomatic alternative to war. Ultimately, diplomacy may not be successful, it may not achieve a final verifiable agreement, but we should make every reasonable effort toward that end. There are no more important issues considered in this Capitol building, undertaken by this Congress than the questions of war and peace. Just as I do not trust Iran, I do not trust war as the best way to prevent a nuclear Iran. And war is the true alternative offered by those here who would interfere or limit these negotiations. Starting a war in Iraq cost us so very dearly, and it did not make us safer. Let’s not repeat that deadly mistake. Congress should commend Secretary of State John Kerry, Under Secretary Wendy Sherman, and President Barack Obama for their leadership through tough, persistent diplomacy through the wise use of American power.
01.13.2014	January 13, 2014 Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett spoke on the House floor of the importance of giving diplomacy a chance to succeed with Iran. Next Monday, January 20, when our country honors the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Iran will roll back parts of its nuclear program as negotiations begin on a permanent agreement. Hope for a nonviolent resolution of our conflict with Iran will appropriately advance on a day honoring nonviolence. To prevent a nuclear-armed Iran and to ensure the safety of our families, a measurable, verifiable negotiated agreement is the wiser course over the unknowable, unlimited risk of war. You can view the speech here or read it below. January 13, 2014 Remarks by Rep. Lloyd Doggett Next Monday, when our country honors an apostle of nonviolence, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Iran will begin reducing its nuclear stockpile. This important action is part of an international agreement to begin implementing the interim Joint Plan of Action that was announced in November. Hope for a nonviolent resolution of our conflict with Iran will appropriately advance on a day that honors nonviolence. Some in Congress have been unwilling to accept these negotiations or to acknowledge that the Administration has been successful in uniting other countries around the world in enforcing sanctions against Tehran. Indeed, in what appears to have been largely a partisan outcry, some of our colleagues condemned the November agreement late on the Saturday night when it was announced without knowing what was in it other than President Obama had approved it. As a Member myself who has consistently voted here to impose tough economic sanctions on Iran, I believe those sanctions have worked. The choice is not between sanctions and no sanctions. It is between recognizing that our sanctions have the potential to realize our goals and not give up on them without really trying. The Iranians are well aware that this Congress can act almost instantly to add even more stringent sanctions if they waver from diplomacy. Can we trust the current Iranian regime? Of course not. That is why the painstaking task of verifying every operational detail of any final agreement is so important. If done with the thoroughness required, this is a task that may well take more than six months. But as negotiations for a permanent agreement get underway, we will have new, regular inspections to verify compliance—something we have not had in the past. To prevent a nuclear-armed Iran and to ensure the safety of our families and families around the world, a measurable, verifiable negotiated agreement is the wiser course over the unknowable, unlimited risk of war. Those who would intrude on these fragile negotiations now only increase the danger of Iran becoming a nuclear-armed power. They would undermine the international coalition that has enforced the existing sanctions. And they would empower those hardline ayatollahs, giving them a pretext to stop progress, giving that to the very people who reject any cooperation and regularly demand death to America and death to Israel. Congress must not impede the diplomatic alternative to war. Ultimately, diplomacy may not be successful, it may not achieve a final verifiable agreement, but we should make every reasonable effort toward that end. There are no more important issues considered in this Capitol building, undertaken by this Congress than the questions of war and peace. Just as I do not trust Iran, I do not trust war as the best way to prevent a nuclear Iran. And war is the true alternative offered by those here who would interfere or limit these negotiations. Starting a war in Iraq cost us so very dearly, and it did not make us safer. Let’s not repeat that deadly mistake. Congress should commend Secretary of State John Kerry, Under Secretary Wendy Sherman, and President Barack Obama for their leadership through tough, persistent diplomacy through the wise use of American power.
01.08.2014	January 8, 2014 Rep. Doggett: While cold temperatures are breaking records, too many Americans are still getting the cold shoulder from House Republicans. Yesterday, the Senate took the first step toward restoring federal Unemployment Insurance, but the House has not done the same. If Speaker Boehner permitted a vote, the House would promptly vote to assure that those Americans, actively seeking work, receive the protection of extended benefits. As happened so often last year, what is stopping progress is another House Republican roadblock, which prevents a majority of the House from renewing this law. In Texas, we still have more than 64,000 individuals who have been unable to get a job after six months of actively seeking work. Senators Cornyn and Cruz strongly opposed the Senate’s effort and no Texas Republican Representative has yet indicated support for the Senate’s legislation.
01.06.2014	January 6, 2014 The FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) for the 2014-15 School Year is now available. You can find instructions from the Department of Education on how to fill the application out by clicking on the link below. I successfully included language in the last Higher Education Reauthorization Act that allows individuals to automatically import their tax data from the IRS, reducing, at least a little, of this application’s previous complexity. Dept. of Education: How to fill out the FAFSA
12.16.2013	December 16, 2013 Today, Rep. Doggett accepted a “Friend of the National Parks” award from the National Parks Conservation Association for his voting record and for his efforts to expand the Missions National Historical Park in San Antonio. This National Park preserves the largest collection of Spanish colonial resources anywhere in America. It is an educational, historical and cultural resource that each year brings over a million people to enjoy and learn from it. The park is important to the understanding of Texas and the United States, and has a very strong positive economic impact for San Antonio and Bexar County.
12.12.2013	December 12, 2013 There are no more important issues in Congress than war and peace. Today, I spoke on the House floor in support of diplomacy with Iran. I believe that the sanctions, which I have consistently supported, worked to get Iran to the negotiating table. Now we need to allow our diplomats an opportunity to move from an interim agreement to a much more difficult comprehensive, permanent agreement to avoid nuclear weapons in Iran. View speech here.
12.12.2013	December 11, 2013 As you may have heard, Rep. Paul Ryan and Sen. Patty Murray recently reached an agreement on how to address the federal budget for the next two years. While the likelihood of avoiding government shutdown is good news, as I said on MSNBC earlier this evening, only when measured by the low, low standards of this “Do Nothing Congress” – does this “Do Little” budget deal represent any progress. Its modest increase may be a slight improvement, but it continues to invest too little in priorities like education, research, and transportation. And, this still leaves unresolved the issue of protecting the full faith and credit of the United States when the debt limit comes up in February.
12.09.2013	December 8, 2013 Examiner.com: Women's, retiree groups ask voters to take sequester remedy action on Dec. 12 On December 12, several prominent community advocacy organizations, including the National Women’s Law Center, the Alliance for Retired Americans, the National Disability Rights Network, 9to5, the AFL-CIO and Americans for Tax Fairness, are asking voters to take action across this nation and contact their elected officials in Washington, D.C. The request to our representatives is to tell them to address the next round of expected 2014 federal sequester cuts. First started this past March, the sequester cuts are, some say, ham-handed, across-the-board cuts to federal spending and hit Latinos and women the hardest. There is little debate that the effects of the sequestration cuts are not good for the country, adversely impacting everything from Head Start programs for low-income children to health care research. Due to sequestration cuts, the National Institutes of Health has been forced to cut $1.75 billion from its budget, for example. According to the National Women’s Law Center today, “Congress can fix this! Closing tax loopholes will raise the revenue needed to end the sequester and protect programs like Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid from the chopping block. That’s why we’re joining forces with other organizations to tell Congress to end the sequester and close corporate tax loopholes.” One of the organizations leading the charge for the Day of Action this month is Americans for Tax Fairness. The group is a diverse coalition of more than 325 national and state organizations that collectively represent millions of members. Founders started the organization believing that “the country needs comprehensive, progressive tax reform that results in greater revenue to meet our growing needs." The Sequester Delay and Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act of 2014 Americans for Tax Fairness, along with the U.S. Public Interest Research Group (U.S. PIRG) and the Financial Accountability & Corporate Transparency (FACT) Coalition this week released a letter signed by 42 organizations calling on members of the U.S. House of Representatives to co-sponsor the Sequester Delay and Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act, which was introduced today by Reps. Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) and Lloyd Doggett (D-TX). According to its press release, Americans for Tax Fairness explains, “The bill would solve the single most pressing issue in Congress by fully eliminating the automatic discretionary spending cuts known as the sequester for 2014 and 2015 and reduce the cuts by $38.6 billion in 2016. " In order to achieve this goal, the legislation would raise $220 billion over 10 years by closing numerous tax loopholes that encourage U.S. corporations to move jobs, profits and operations offshore and avoid paying their fair share of taxes. In some years large, profitable corporations have used offshore tax loopholes to avoid paying any federal income taxes at all. "By eliminating the sequester cuts, the legislation would prevent further weakening of government services that have sustained American families during the prolonged economic downturn. While American corporations book record profits and many of them hide profits offshore, American families still struggle in an economy with weak job growth. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that if the sequester is allowed to go into effect it would cost an additional 800,000 jobs. The legislation announced today would help prevent job loss and would stimulate the economy.” The December 12 Day of Action is an opportunity, according to these women's and other groups to stand up for women and families by closing tax loopholes to raise the revenue needed to end the sequester and protect programs like Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid from cuts. Federal Times talks to the sequester and the impending FBI cutbacks Sean Reilly writes in the Federal Times on Dec. 1, 2013, in the article titled, “Sequester in 2014 will be worse, report warns,” “When the first round of sequester-related budget cuts hit in March, agencies sought help from Congress, juggled funds and resorted to bookkeeping gimmicks to cushion the impact. "Those options will be harder to come by if a second round of sequester cuts strikes early next year, a liberal-leaning think tank warns in a new report. Agencies implemented the fiscal 2013 sequester on the assumption that it was 'a short-term glitch' that Congress would soon fix, the Center for American Progress analysis said. "But if annual sequesters become the new normal, 'all of those quick fixes will have only made things worse for the American people,' the report added. "In fiscal 2013, for example, Congress let the Justice Department apply more than $300 million in expired funds toward its share of the sequester, even though that money couldn’t be spent anyway, the analysis said. That won’t be possible this time around. "At the FBI, all employees could be furloughed for somewhere between 10 and 15 days, Reynaldo Tariche, president of the FBI Agents Association, said in an interview last week citing information from bureau management." To get more information about one campaign sponsored by the National Women’s Law Center to encourage Americans to tell the members of the U.S. House of Representatives to stop the sequestration measures, visit the Thunderclap or the Center’s websites. No matter what your political affiliation, consider joining the online Federal Budget Day of Action on December 12 to let your elected officials know your opinion. Do lobbyists already run America? I would say no. Civic engagement on the part of ordinary people this Thursday is essential and will make a difference. “Lobbyists now run America, own America, rule America. Forget the 537 politicians you thought we elected to the White House, Senate and Congress to run America for us. No, they're mere puppets, pawns for the "Happy Conspiracy," an oligopoly, plutocracy, cabal, monopoly all-in-one -- a private club of America's richest few on Wall Street, in Washington and in Corporate America.” – Paul Farrell of The Wall Street Journal’s Marketwatch.com, Sept. 9, 2009
12.02.2013	December 2, 2013 Rep. Doggett spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives today, calling on Speaker Boehner to bring comprehensive immigration reform to the floor. “The only thing preventing a bipartisan response to the immigration problems we have in this country is the unwillingness of the Speaker to permit a bipartisan vote on reform legislation.” View the floor speech here.
11.27.2013	As we give thanks, let us recall those who still seek the security of a steady job. I joined with U.S. Rep. Sanchez and Senator Reed and other to urge Congress to extend emergency Unemplyment Insurance to help the long-term unemployed. You can view my remarks below.
11.22.2013	November 22, 2013 Low-interest federal disaster loans are now available for qualifying homeowners or renters in Central Texas for damage arising from the recent flooding. You can find more information about eligibility, benefits, and the application process by clicking on the following link: U.S. SBA Fact Sheet - Disaster Loans
11.20.2013	Rep. Doggett Extend Benefits to Help Long-Term Unemployed As we count our blessings with our families around the Thanksgiving table next week, many Americans will be counting the weeks that they have been searching for a job. Over one million, who have been unable find a job after more than six months of searching will undoubtedly remain thankful for that small federal benefit they receive. If after a year of doing so little, the Republicans take their three-week holiday beginning in mid-December, while letting this vital program expire, that small measure of hope will also expire. Without prompt congressional action, assistance will be stopped next month for over a million individuals. The long-term unemployed—the 36 percent of unemployed workers, who have been jobless for more than six months, are disproportionately older and also face bias because they have been unemployed so long. Though the unemployment rate has been reduced over the last four years, the Times reports that long-term joblessness is up by 213%. According to a report by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, the chance of an individual who has been unemployed for six months finding a new job in any given month is one in 10. In Texas, the total weeks of unemployment benefits available since the height of the recession have been reduced by 40%. But we still have more than 68,000 individuals who have been unable to get a job after six months of actively seeking work. Withholding benefits from those actively seeking work in a poor economic climate makes as much sense as withholding aid from those hurt by a poor climate. Cutting benefits can batter a household like a storm can tear at a house. Creating new jobs, and training the unemployed to move into new jobs both are important, but we should also preserve this vital lifeline for folks who are actively searching for work.
11.15.2013	November 13, 2013 Great opportunity to have dinner last evening with the most recent recipient of the Medal of Honor, Captain William Swenson, a U.S. Army Ranger. Captain Swenson received the Medal of Honor for his courageous actions, by standing guard over a wounded soldier as a medical helicopter arrived in the middle of a battle, while serving in Afghanistan in 2009. Captain Swenson provided a moving presentation of the Gettysburg Address, which followed an insightful discussion with Lincoln biographer, Michael Burlingame in the Great Hall of the Library of Congress. This is the fourth in a series of lectures about great American presidents—Washington, Jefferson, and Lincoln. Rare copies of the Gettysburg Address and the Inaugural addresses in Lincoln’s long hand were exhibited. Now open to the public at the Library is a fine display about the Civil War tragedy that is now estimated to have taken over 750,000 lives in a country with only about one tenth the population of present day America.
11.08.2013	November 8, 2013 Austin, TX – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D), a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, announced that $316,667 in federal funds is available to Central Texas Community Health Centers (CommUnityCare) in Travis County from the Department of Health and Human Services under the Affordable Care Act. CommUnityCare will use the funds to assist with the repurposing of a 68,000 square foot building that was formerly the Veteran’s Administration Outpatient Clinic as the new Southeast Health and Wellness Center. Slated to open in fall of 2014, the center will house primary and specialty health care services under one roof, and will have the capacity to serve 20,000 patient visits. “These funds are just the start and lay the foundation for a new medical home for thousands of our neighbors,” said Rep. Doggett. “When southeast Travis County is experiencing so many challenges due to the flood, this good news of the first new money to begin this project comes at the right time.” “The Southeast Health and Wellness Center is a new health center model intended to be the home for the widest range of health and wellness services we can possibly provide. This grant is critical to providing those services for our community and particularly southeast Travis County; one of the most medically underserved areas in the county,” Central Health President & CEO Patricia A. Young Brown said. “CommUnityCare is excited about receiving this grant and is working to expand and deliver care in this new model. We are committed to providing quality care to those that need it. We hope to serve an additional 20,000 visits with this grant. It will allow us to increase access to services for all our patients,” CommUnityCare CEO George Miller said. These New Access Point grants, which are administered by HHS’s Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), support community health centers and continue improving access to health care services across the county. CommUnityCare will use funds through February 28, 2014, and will have a option of additional funding, based on HRSA’s evaluation of the completed work and projected need. ###
10.29.2013	October 29, 2013 Washington, DC – Today, I questioned Marilyn Tavenner, the Administrator for CMS, who oversees many aspects of the Affordable Care Act. By clicking here, you can watch the video. Republicans in Congress and Texas are attempting to obstruct the law’s implementation at every turn. So far the Administration’s response has been in adequate, we need more help to enroll Texans.
10.18.2013	Washington Post: Could a child abuse registry have saved Adrian Peterson’s son? Few news reports are more depressing than those chronicling the death of a child. Perhaps the only thing more heartbreaking is when such a death was preventable. While the full details of the death of NFL star Adrian Peterson’s 2-year-old son are still being uncovered, here is what we do know. Joseph Robert Patterson, who was living with the boy’s mother, has been charged with aggravated assault on an infant. He had previously pleaded guilty to assault in a case involving a woman and a young child. Among the most serious allegations, his former romantic partner accused him of injuring her child during spankings and becoming violent with her when she intervened. Patterson was also subsequently arrested for violating an order of protection instructing him to stay away from the woman and her family. By agreeing to attend counseling, Patterson was able to avoid jail time. One year later Adrian Peterson’s son is dead. Consider this: If Joseph Robert Patterson had been found guilty of a sex crime against a young child, he would have been listed in the National Sex Offender Registry , but presently no such national registry exists for child abusers. Although the launch of such a registry has been discussed for years, efforts have consistently bogged down over concerns about cost, privacy and debates over states’ rights. At present, each state has its own system for tracking abusers, but there is no national uniformity, meaning someone listed in a database in Nebraska can relocate to New York and his or her record is unlikely to follow. Further complicating matters, some states do not track abusers by state but by county, meaning an abuser doesn’t even have to cross state lines to try to outrun his or her past. Because states often vary the language in their penal codes, creating a national registry would require a measure of cooperation and faith in the federal government that seems laughable given the current tone of discourse in Washington. But a move toward a national child abuse registry could save lives. When asked specifically what could possibly have been done differently to save the life of Peterson’s son, Teresa Huizar, executive director of the National Children’s Alliance, replied: “It’s not just a matter of looking at what went wrong with this case. It’s a matter of looking at what does this case tells us about what goes wrong for the 1,500 kids who are abused to death every single year. The dynamic isn’t so different [for those kids]. Somehow a child was left with a caregiver who was completely overwhelmed and unable to care for that child and had shown no impulse control in the past.” She continued, “I think that the takeaway ought to be for all of us that these deaths are preventable. If we know that someone has previously victimized a child, that should be our first clue that that person may not be able to be safely left caring for other children, and their contact with children may need to be supervised by another adult.” Huizar added that the move toward “differential” strategies for addressing allegations of abuse and neglect has created new challenges in the movement to end child abuse. Because of concern that families were being broken up over abuse allegations that could have been resolved through parenting classes and family counseling, many states have begun to move away from cataloguing what are deemed minor abuse allegations. This means that if a parent or caregiver engages in what is considered a lower-level form of abuse or neglect, but eventually acknowledges the behavior was inappropriate and agrees to counseling or classes, then he or she may not be included in the state’s abuse registry. From Huizar’s perspective, this can lead to disaster. “One of the things we know about child abuse fatalities is typically there’s a pattern of escalating violence over time,” she said. “So it may start out with striking the child, then striking the child and leaving a bruise, then shaking the child, then eventually breaking a bone, and then eventually the child is killed.” Patterson’s case showed precisely that kind of escalation. Huizar drew parallels to domestic violence between partners. “We don’t say, ‘Well, it’s nothing because he only slapped her’ or, ‘It’s not important because he only shoved her,’ because the shove or the slap today is the strangulation or homicide of tomorrow, and we have to think about child abuse the same way,” she said. “If there’s repeated and escalating violence we have to be able to identify it, to track it, to intervene, so those children are protected.” Huizar is hopeful that the passage of the Protect our Kids Act, which was signed into law by President Obama in January, will make a difference. The law establishes a national commission focused on reducing child abuse fatalities and should help reignite conversation about a national child abusers registry. Trying to prevent child abuse seems to be one of the few issues that leaders and legislators from both major parties can agree on. Huizar noted that the Protect Our Kids Act was championed by a bipartisan coalition that included Sen. Max Baucus (D-Mont.), Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) and Reps. Lloyd Doggett (D-Tex.) and Dave Camp (R-Mich.). Former Democratic Massachusetts senator John Kerry, now secretary of state, also was a lead sponsor. “We are fortunate that there are people that care about this,” Huizar said. But then she added: “The unfortunate part is when there is partisan bickering on the Hill about other matters, whether it’s budgetary or health care [or] these other things, the easiest thing to get pushed aside are children’s issues. I think it’s important for folks to remember that while all of these other big policies are important, there are still children dying every day in the U.S. from having been abused to death, and they deserve attention and they deserve the attention of the Congress.” – Keli Goff Link to article.
10.11.2013	October 11, 2013 Just came from participating at the Capitol in our Fiscal Working Group. Contrary to the illusions of some Texas Republican colleagues that ignoring next week’s debt ceiling appears to be no big deal, J.P. Morgan financial experts say “effects of a default could be substantial.” With federal default looming on October 17, “… Americans’ confidence in the economy has deteriorated more in the past week than any since 2008. … Federal debt default would rank as one of the more unprecedented economic and financial events in the country’s history.” To preserve economic security, we must overcome the shutdown/default caucus. – Rep. Doggett
10.07.2013	Reuters: Pentagon recalls most civilian defense employees idled by shutdown Washington - The Pentagon said on Saturday it would recall the vast majority of around 350,000 civilian Defense Department employees sent home during the U.S. government shutdown, a move that could greatly lessen the impact of Washington infighting on the U.S. armed forces. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said a legal review of the "Pay Our Military Act," signed by President Barack Obama on Monday on the eve of the shutdown, would allow him to bring most civilians back to work next week. "I expect us to be able to significantly reduce - but not eliminate - civilian furloughs under this process," Hagel said. "Employees can expect to hear more information from their managers starting this weekend." In a telephone briefing to reporters, Pentagon Comptroller Robert Hale estimated that the no more than a few tens of thousands of employees would remain on furlough. "And it may be substantially less than that," he said, adding that furloughed personnel who did not qualify to return included legislative affairs personnel and some employees working in public affairs. Hale estimated the number of civilian personnel now furloughed at roughly 350,000, down from previous estimates by U.S. defense officials of about 400,000 workers. Since the start of the shutdown, American troops have felt the fallout from the feuding in Washington despite legislation meant to protect them. Republicans in the House of Representatives have tried to defund or delay Obama's signature healthcare law as a condition of funding the government, leading to the impasse. With the shutdown, sailors have complained about delays in annual payments of re-enlistment bonuses, military academies have scaled back classes and key Pentagon offices - including ones dealing with intelligence matters - have been hollowed out. Even U.S. commissaries selling groceries to military families have been shuttered. Although the return of civilian employees will lessen the blow of the government shutdown, Hale cautioned that the Pentagon was still unable to pay death gratuities on time to families of active duty troops who die during the shutdown. Officials also cautioned that, in the event of a prolonged shutdown, the "Pay Our Military Act" did not allow for the Defense Department to buy new supplies necessary for many Pentagon employees to do their jobs. "Critical parts, or supplies, will run out, and there will be limited authority for the Department to purchase more," Hagel said. "If there comes a time that workers are unable to do their work, I will be forced once again to send them home." For many affected civilians, it was the second time in as many months that they were forced to take unpaid leave. More than 600,000 civilian U.S. defense employees were required to take unpaid leave in early August in a bid to reduce spending after across-the-board budget cuts went into force in March. "This has been a very disruptive year for our people," Hagel said. To read the rest of the article, click here.
09.30.2013	September 30, 2013 At this point on Monday morning, I believe we will probably experience a partial federal government shutdown beginning tomorrow. Like the manufactured debt crisis that cost us over $1 billion last year and the manufactured fiscal cliff crisis on New Year's Day, Republicans are forcing us to lurch from crisis to crisis. This shutdown may go on for only a few days or it may become entangled with our need to approve debt ceiling legislation by October 17 in order to preserve the full faith and credit of the United States. Just the process of shutting down government services will cost an estimated $150 million a day. This is "partial" because there have been a number of changes in the law since the Newt Gingrich Republican shutdown shortly after I began serving in Congress. The immediate impact will be felt mainly by much of the federal workforce and by those who use a range of federal services. This scheme is not just about stopping the government from paying its bills; it will keep some Central Texas families from paying their own bills. You can read more about the specifics here. Instead of participating in a number of local events this past weekend, I was in Washington as Republicans rejected a continuing resolution to keep the government functioning and insisted upon another attack on the Affordable Care Act. Today it is expected that they will continue to say no, perhaps with some other ploy. Republicans seem prepared to do almost anything to ensure families are denied their right to obtain private insurance coverage through the new health insurance marketplaces and to share in the other benefits of the Affordable Care Act. They have rejected an offer to correct shortcomings in that law, insisting that we vote over and over again to repeal it without advancing any meaningful legislative alternative. For more information about what new opportunities are available for your family to access health insurance, please click here. My offices in San Antonio, Austin, and Washington will remain open and ready to be responsive.
09.19.2013	From the Austin American-Statesman: Nutrition program is government that works By Miguel Ferguson, Stacey Borasky, Scott Harding Published: Tuesday, Sept. 10, 2013 What if you learned that a group of domestic troublemakers was planning to destabilize the U.S. economy and invite ruinous hardship on millions of Americans, mainly women, children, the disabled and the elderly? What if you discovered that their plan was to increase unemployment, hunger, homelessness, poverty and poor health? To slow local economies still reeling from a sluggish (or nonexistent) recovery, and push deprivation to Third World levels? Would you sit idly by and let this happen? Or would you fight back? We suspect that most Americans would do what they could to oppose this scheme. Unfortunately, this nightmare scenario is not a fictional plot. The subversive plan in question is the House Republicans’ stated goal of cutting $40 billion from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, traditionally referred to as food stamps, over the next 10 years. Born in the Great Depression and strengthened by Democratic and Republican administrations alike, the nutrition program is a modern anti-poverty marvel. It improves access to healthy meals for more than 20 million children each year — that’s nearly 1 in 3 children in the U.S. It also reduces chronic illness and hospitalizations among children in low-income households and significantly reduces poverty and the severity of poverty among recipient households. The positive effects of the program’s nutrition benefits are often evident years later. American farmers produce ample amounts of food, and providing it to low-income and poor families keeps kids healthier, happier and better prepared to do their best in school. The nutrition program also acts as a powerful economic stimulus. Use of the program expands when and where need is greatest and contracts when local economies begin to recover. Households with the lowest incomes and limited assets receive higher levels of assistance, though the monthly benefit is quite modest (about $133 per month per eligible member). By providing resources that must be spent at local grocery stores and retail outlets on basic food items, the nutrition program stimulates the farm-to-market nexus and provides the basis for hundreds of thousands of private-sector jobs in the farming, transportation and retail industries. It helps grocery stores stay open, especially in small towns and rural areas where the economy has been particularly hard-hit by the recession. Thanks in part to the nutrition program, small businesses continue to employ your friends, family and neighbors. And finally, contrary to what Republicans often claim, the nutrition program is one of the most efficient government programs, with a rigorous application process, high rates of payment accuracy and low rates of misuse (about 1 cent on the dollar). The main limitation of the nutrition program is not that it helps feed too many people or costs too much. Instead, its greatest weakness is that nationwide almost 30 percent of eligible individuals do not receive benefits. This problem is especially acute among the elderly. When potential recipients of food assistance are discouraged from applying for benefits, local economies are deprived of billions of dollars. One would think that pro-business Republicans looking to curry the favor of the private sector would be sensitive to this enormous loss of revenue. In Texas, for example, where Gov. Rick Perry trumpets a business friendly environment, low take-up rates left over $2 billion off the table in 2011; California lost over $3 billion in unutilized federal funds. These figures are even more confounding since the federal government pays 100 percent of the SNAP benefits for each state. The failure to utilize these resources also strains the capacity of state and local government, while leaving an under-resourced network of charities, food banks, and soup kitchens to fill the gap. Ultimately, those who suffer most will be the 47 million Americans — almost half of them children — who will be denied access to an adequate amount of food. Americans pride themselves on fighting for the underdog, yet too often we sit back and watch as the economy is undermined and our most vulnerable citizens are pushed further to the margins. In this case, the problem is simply too important to ignore. When Congress reconvenes and rogue Republicans attempt once again to dismantle SNAP and our local economies, let’s let them know that we will not let food be denied to our children. Ferguson is an associate professor in the School of Social Work at the University of Texas at Austin. Borasky is chair of the Department of Social Work, Sociology and Criminology at St. Edward’s University. Harding is an associate professor in the School of Social Work at the University of Connecticut.
09.05.2013	Doggett hesitant on U.S. intervention in Syria San Antonio Express-News:September 4, 2013 (link) Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, an Austin Democrat with an independent streak, said Wednesday he's leaning against supporting a proposed congressional resolution backing U.S. military intervention in Syria. Addressing a Greater San Antonio Chamber of Commerce luncheon, Doggett said he's eager to get a classified briefing next week on the situation in Syria, but isn't on board yet with President Barack Obama's plan to punish the civil war-ravaged nation with airstrikes. “The question is: Is there a military mission that is well defined and planned where we're not limiting our military to accomplish that mission ... and I've yet to be convinced that there is,” Doggett said, answering an audience member's question. The comments came the day that the Senate Foreign Relations Committee voted to authorize military force against Syria in response to a deadly chemical weapons attack. The full Senate is expected to vote on the measure next week, when Doggett and other House members reconvene from their August recess. Doggett, whose District 35 includes part of Bexar County and the Interstate 35 corridor, regrets the slow pace of formulating a U.S. response. “I think we should have been in Washington last week instead of next week,” Doggett said. Obama recently delayed U.S. action when he opted to first consult with Congress, but the president said waiting to strike Syria wouldn't diminish the effect of the response. Doggett joined in condemning Syria's treatment of civilians but questioned Obama's approach and the wisdom of intervening. “I'm horrified like everyone else by what I see there,” Doggett told about 200 guests at the chamber's congressional luncheon series. He pointed out that thousands of Syrians died from being “sprayed with bombs and mortars” before the chemical attacks that prompted Obama to propose airstrikes. “What he wanted to do was a shot across the bow of the (President Bashar) Assad government. It seems to me to be a very dangerous and costly way to send a message,” Doggett said. “I would like to send him a message, but I'd like to do it in a way that does not involve us in a regional civil war and that does not have America — either our military families that have been called upon to sacrifice so much, or our taxpayers — having to bear all the burden,” Doggett said. Doggett, in Congress since 1994, focused his remarks on his legislative priorities including education, immigration reform, health care and the federal budget, but he warned that long-running gridlock is still a frustrating factor. “We are in the midst of a congressional recess, though for most people it's hard to tell the difference,” Doggett said.
08.14.2013	Ethically Corrupt And Unashamed Express-News Editorial Board: August 12, 2013 (link) We know many will tell us to just grow up. And, still, the gall is something to behold. “In 2011, both houses of the Texas Legislature were controlled by large Republican majorities, and their redistricting decisions were designed to increase the Republican Party's electoral prospects at the expense of the Democrats,” writes the office of Attorney General Greg Abbott. “It is perfectly constitutional for a Republican-controlled legislature to make partisan redistricting decisions, even if there are incidental effects on minority voters who support Democratic candidates.” This is in a response filed by the state in the redistricting case now before a panel of three federal judges in San Antonio. What is supposed to be a defense of the state Legislature reads more like an indictment of the redistricting process. Put aside for the moment what Abbott considers “incidental effects.” Texas minorities have contributed about 90 percent of the state's growth, but the maps do not reflect that. What's most galling here is how unabashedly unashamed is the state's top lawyer in detailing the partisan aspect of a process that should not be as substantively so. It is written matter-of-factly, as if the public must just numbly accept it. “Perfectly constitutional” can cover a variety of sins, but here the meaning is clear; legislators keep themselves in power because they can. And if values such as fairness, compactness, competitiveness and communities of interest (when this isn't code for “safe districts”) get included, that's purely coincidental. The fact that Democrats were just as unabashedly partisan in recent memory is a sorry excuse. It is, however, reason to take redistricting out of legislators' hands altogether. It gets worse. “The district of Congressman Lloyd Doggett — the only white Democrat in the Texas congressional delegation elected in a majority-white district — was completely dismantled in an attempt to drive him from office,” Abbott's office wrote, the emphasis his. Or this bit of honesty: “The district of state Senator Wendy Davis — another white Democrat — was also altered significantly in an effort to unseat her.” And the claim that these two “were treated worse (the document's emphasis) than the black incumbent members of Congress” is offered as proof that there was no discrimination afoot. A bill authored by U.S. Rep. Alan Lowenthal, D-Calif., would require all congressional districts be crafted by independent commissions. And there was a homegrown version in the last regular session of the Texas Legislature. Rep. Mark Strama, D-Austin, introduced legislation that would let Texans vote on a constitutional amendment creating a seven-member redistricting commission. It wasn't approved and it will not surprise us if the proposal in the U.S. House isn't either. The attorney general's response in the redistricting case makes it clear why. Constitutional? Yuck, but we guess. We are entirely certain, however, that it is also ethically corrupt.
08.14.2013	Ethically Corrupt And Unashamed Express-News Editorial Board: August 12, 2013 (link) We know many will tell us to just grow up. And, still, the gall is something to behold. “In 2011, both houses of the Texas Legislature were controlled by large Republican majorities, and their redistricting decisions were designed to increase the Republican Party's electoral prospects at the expense of the Democrats,” writes the office of Attorney General Greg Abbott. “It is perfectly constitutional for a Republican-controlled legislature to make partisan redistricting decisions, even if there are incidental effects on minority voters who support Democratic candidates.” This is in a response filed by the state in the redistricting case now before a panel of three federal judges in San Antonio. What is supposed to be a defense of the state Legislature reads more like an indictment of the redistricting process. Put aside for the moment what Abbott considers “incidental effects.” Texas minorities have contributed about 90 percent of the state's growth, but the maps do not reflect that. What's most galling here is how unabashedly unashamed is the state's top lawyer in detailing the partisan aspect of a process that should not be as substantively so. It is written matter-of-factly, as if the public must just numbly accept it. “Perfectly constitutional” can cover a variety of sins, but here the meaning is clear; legislators keep themselves in power because they can. And if values such as fairness, compactness, competitiveness and communities of interest (when this isn't code for “safe districts”) get included, that's purely coincidental. The fact that Democrats were just as unabashedly partisan in recent memory is a sorry excuse. It is, however, reason to take redistricting out of legislators' hands altogether. It gets worse. “The district of Congressman Lloyd Doggett — the only white Democrat in the Texas congressional delegation elected in a majority-white district — was completely dismantled in an attempt to drive him from office,” Abbott's office wrote, the emphasis his. Or this bit of honesty: “The district of state Senator Wendy Davis — another white Democrat — was also altered significantly in an effort to unseat her.” And the claim that these two “were treated worse (the document's emphasis) than the black incumbent members of Congress” is offered as proof that there was no discrimination afoot. A bill authored by U.S. Rep. Alan Lowenthal, D-Calif., would require all congressional districts be crafted by independent commissions. And there was a homegrown version in the last regular session of the Texas Legislature. Rep. Mark Strama, D-Austin, introduced legislation that would let Texans vote on a constitutional amendment creating a seven-member redistricting commission. It wasn't approved and it will not surprise us if the proposal in the U.S. House isn't either. The attorney general's response in the redistricting case makes it clear why. Constitutional? Yuck, but we guess. We are entirely certain, however, that it is also ethically corrupt.
08.05.2013	Washington— U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, reintroduced the Smuggled Tobacco Prevention (STOP) Act (H.R. 2990), legislation that would collect hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue, decrease the consumption of tobacco, and combat criminals and terrorists who profit from the illegal trade of tobacco. Identical language was included in the Tobacco Tax and Enforcement Reform, S. 826, introduced in April by late Senator Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ), and supported by Senators Dick Durbin (D-IL), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), and Tom Harkin (D-IA). Rep. Peter King (R-NY) is the lead co-sponsor of the bill, joined by 39 other Members of Congress. The STOP Act addresses the serious and growing problem of illegal tobacco trafficking by requiring that packages of tobacco products be uniquely marked to aid law enforcement efforts to track and trace tax payments on tobacco products. It bans the sale, lease, and importation of tobacco product manufacturing equipment to unlicensed persons. The bill prevents the illegal re-entry of tobacco products intended for export by requiring export warehouse proprietors to file reports with the Treasury Department. It also increases penalties for violating the law and establishes new offenses. “Tobacco products are the single largest, illegally trafficked, legal product on the planet. But current federal laws to stop smugglers are outdated and fail to give law enforcement officials the tools they need to enforce the law,” said Congressman Doggett. “Snuffing out smuggled tobacco, whether sold here or shipped across our borders, can cut crime, raise revenue and boost health.” The U.S. Department of Justice has estimated that tobacco smuggling in the United States costs federal and state governments at least $5 billion in lost revenue annually. The STOP Act mandates that packages of tobacco products manufactured in or imported to the United States bear a unique, high-tech identification marking similar to that which the State of California is already using. This requirement, along with increased permit and record-keeping requirements throughout the supply chain, will enable enforcement officials to distinguish real tax markings from even the most advanced counterfeits, identify who applied the marking and initially sold and purchased the product, and obtain other information useful for tracking, tracing, and enforcement purposes. These requirements will help states and the federal government increase their tobacco tax receipts without raising taxes. The bill is supported by the American Cancer Society-Cancer Action Network, the American Heart Association, the American Lung Association, and the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids (see attached letter), as well as Corporate Accountability International, and Action on Smoking & Health.
07.09.2013	NYT: Immigration in the House [excerpts] July 7, 2013 Now that the Senate has passed its version of reform — a comprehensive bill with a long but real citizenship path — the ball is in the House. It might be stuck there: the speaker, John Boehner, has ruled out voting on the Senate bill, or on any immigration bill not supported by the majority of his caucus. That is a recipe for failure, but the House has nothing else to offer right now, no other solutions to match the scale of the problem. … If only enough House Republicans could see that the bill is one that embraces many of their own priorities. It shrinks the deficit and satisfies big-business interests with more visas for agricultural and information-technology workers. It ushers millions of shadow workers into the higher-earning, taxpaying, aboveground economy, a sure recipe for jobs and growth. And it heaps billions on defense contractors to supply the surveillance tools and weaponry to fortify the border. The coalition behind comprehensive reform is large. It includes evangelicals and Catholics, law-enforcement and business groups, and Republicans like Jeb Bush and former President George W. Bush. Immigrant-rights advocates and Democrats are solidly lined up, too, even those who want a shorter path to citizenship and less money thrown at the border buildup. Mr. Boehner has a choice. He can let reform go forward with bipartisan support — House Republicans and Democrats together could pass a good bill. This would infuriate the hotheads in his caucus but save the Republican Party from itself. Or he can stand back and let his party kill reform. As the issue festers, a nation is watching to see whether the Republicans can work out their Steve King problem and do something difficult for their own good, and the country’s.
07.01.2013	By Associated Press, Published: June 30 Rep. Bob Goodlatte, the Virginia Republican who leads the House Judiciary Committee, said he does not foresee a [comprehensive immigration] proposal that could provide a simple mechanism for immigrants here illegally to earn full standing as U.S. citizens, as many Democrats have demanded. Goodlatte’s committee members have been working on bills that address individual concerns but have not written a comprehensive proposal to match the Senate’s effort. … Illustrating the strong opposition among conservative lawmakers in the House, Rep. Trey Gowdy, R-S.C., said flatly: “The Senate bill is not going to pass.” … House Speaker John Boehner has ruled out taking up the Senate bill and said the Republican-controlled chamber would chart its own version of the legislation with a focus on border security. … “Will he allow a small group, maybe even a majority of his caucus, to control the debate and the future on this issue?” asked Rep. Luis Gutierrez, D-Ill. “If he decides to do that, we will then end in a stalemate and an impasse once again.” But an immigration bill could be trouble for Boehner’s rank-and-file members. “They fear Republican primaries from the right if they vote ‘yes,’” said Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y. But Democrats were unlikely to yield on their principles, warned Schumer, who helped write the Senate bill. “No Democrat will vote for any bill without a path to citizenship,” Schumer said. Democrats in the House, though, urged their GOP colleagues to keep working toward an immigration overhaul despite its political risks and fierce intraparty infighting. “I know it’s going to be a tough slog in the House. I’ve seen what’s been going on in that place,” said Rep. Donna Edwards, D-Md. “But we can get this done and have to get it done for the country.” Goodlatte and Gutierrez spoke to CNN’s “State of the Union.” Pelosi was interviewed on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” Gowdy, McCain and Schumer were on “Fox News Sunday.” Edwards appeared on ABC’s “This Week.”
06.21.2013	Despite the persistent opposition of both of our Texas Senators reflected in the attached articles, the Senate continues to make progress on comprehensive immigration reform. In Politico: Senate kills John Cornyn border security amendment By: Burgess Everett June 20, 2013 12:44 PM EDT The Senate voted to scrap an amendment from the Senate’s No. 2 Republican on Thursday that would have added a hard trigger on border security as a requirement to undocumented immigrants’ pathway to citizenship. The amendment to the Gang of Eight’s bipartisan immigration bill from Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) was narrowly tabled 54-43, on a mostly party-line vote. A “yea” vote was to table to the amendment. The Gang of Eight mostly stayed together — with the exception of Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), who voted against killing the Cornyn provision. The other three Gang Republicans, Sens. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, Jeff Flake of Arizona and John McCain of Arizona, voted to table the Cornyn amendment, as did Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.)…. The minority whip’s amendment would have required a 90 percent border apprehension rate, increased surveillance, a biometric exit system and national E-Verify system as prerequisites for newly documented immigrants to gain green-card status. Ted Cruz: Oppose immigration reform in name of `our humanity’ By Greg Sargent, Updated: June 19, 2013 The news that the Congressional Budget Office found that immigration reform would dramatically reduce the deficit has deprived diehard reform foes of one of their last remaining arguments: Rewarding the “takers” would sock it to the American taxpayer. But that hasn’t stopped foes of reform from pressing forward with still more arguments. The trouble is that in the wake of the CBO news their case looks ever more absurd and desperate. Case in point: Ted Cruz, on the Senate floor today, made the argument that we should oppose immigration reform for the sake of undocumented immigrants. He stood before a blown-up picture of a graveyard as he solemnly eulogized on behalf of unnamed souls who had been killed crossing the border: “No one who cares about our humanity would want to maintain a system where the border isn’t secure,” Cruz said, noting that ”vulnerable women and children” are being preyed upon by drug dealers and are being “left to die in the desert.” “This is a system that produces human tragedy,” Cruz continued. “And the most heartbreaking aspect of this gang of eight bill is it will perpetuate this tragedy. It will not fix the problem. It will not secure the borders.” In fact, the gang of eight bill would allot billions of dollars to border security, require the Department of Homeland Security to produce a security plan, and mandate the creation of a border security commission if security benchmarks aren’t met. Democrats are also very likely to agree to Republican demands that the security plan be taken out of DHS’s hands and that its specifics be determined by Congress. Cruz has introduced amendments to beef up the gang of eight bill’s border security measures. But make no mistake: For all his professed concern about the unnamed dead, his position, for all practical purposes, is to do nothing at all to fix the system that, by his lights, perpetuates all of the tragedy he lamented today. Cruz has introduced an amendment to strip the path to citizenship out of the bill entirely. Without a path to citizenship, we aren’t getting reform. Such amendments are designed to kill reform completely – period, full stop — yet here is Cruz, claiming that his actions are all about protecting the undocumented immigrants who would benefit from it. Indeed, Cruz’s professed sympathy for the plight of the undocumented is particularly striking in light of his efforts to tie immigration reform’s prospects to a conservative cause that isn’t related to border security at all. He recently vowed to attach an amendment to the immigration bill that would allow states to require proof of citizenship as a condition for registering to vote, contra the Supreme Court decision striking down Arizona’s voting law. Cruz isn’t the only one. Senator Jeff Sessions, another diehard opponent of reform, is now dismissing the CBO’s finding that reform would help the economy by arguing that any economic benefits would go to business owners, rather than the poor. As Ezra Klein dryly noted: “Sessions doesn’t typically vote against bills because the benefits accrue to business owners or because they’ll make life harder for Americans who can’t find work. Quite the opposite, actually.” In Sessions’ case, fortunately, the true motive here is on full display. He has openly made it known that the real goal of all of his procedural objections to reform is to stall long enough to build up public opposition in hopes of killing it. As he puts it: “The longer it lays in the sun, the more it smells, as they say about the mackerel.” Cruz, to my knowledge, hasn’t been quite this forthcoming. But it isn’t hard to figure out that his opposition to reform is about anything but “our humanity.”
06.18.2013	Washington—While it was raining in Washington, nothing could dampen the spirit and resolve of all those gathered today to call on House Republicans’ to stop the onslaught of anti-immigrant legislation and pass comprehensive immigration legislation. Click here to see a clip from the press conference.
06.06.2013	Full transcript below: REP. DOGGETT: Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of young DREAMers, young people brought as children without proper documentation to this country. Young people willing to work hard to share in the American Dream; young people who have so much to offer America. Today, 220 House Republicans said no to their dream by voting to terminate the program that allows them to stay legally. These Republicans, by their votes, said no to an essential element of comprehensive immigration reform at the very time the Senate is about to take up that measure. To those Republicans who say, “No, we can’t,” we need more and more Americans who insist, “Yes, we can.” When we harness the energy of these youth, when we reform our immigration laws in a comprehensive way, we will create an America as good as their dream.
06.03.2013	Washington—Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett was named the 2013 Recipient of the Bud Cramer Award from the National Children’s Alliance. The Alliance is a professional membership organization made up of thousands of child advocacy organizations across the country, including ChildSafe in San Antonio and the Center for Children Protection, the Children’s Advocacy Centers of Texas, and the University of Texas’ Institute on Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault in Austin, dedicated to helping local communities respond to allegations of child abuse in ways that are effective and efficient. “It is an honor to be recognized by the Alliance, such a dedicated group of advocates who deserve much more recognition than they receive for the work they do in our communities and here in Washington,” Rep. Doggett said. Pictured with Kim Abernethy and Randy McGibeny of ChildSafe, Michael Torres of the Center for Child Protection, and Karen Kalergis of UT Austin. Rep. Doggett was honored for his work as the Ranking Member of the Human Resources Subcommittee, which oversees issues related to child care, child and family services, child support, foster care, and adoption. Earlier this year, President Obama signed into law Rep. Doggett’s Protect Our Kids Act, a bill to establish a national commission to develop recommendations to reduce child abuse and neglect. “This issue was particularly important to me—Texas has the highest rate of child abuse and neglect fatalities in the nation,” Rep. Doggett said. “We are aware that there are so many, many children across the country who lose their lives or are permanently scarred by abuse from a caretaker. The commission established by the Protect Our Kids Act provides us with the opportunity to establish an accessible blueprint that communities and good organizations like the National Children’s Alliance and its members can use to improve the protection of our most vulnerable children from violence at the hands of abusive parents or caregivers.”
05.28.2013	All of our neighbors who were affected by the severe flooding that hit Bexar, Comal, and Guadalupe counties this weekend remain in my thoughts and prayers. Thank you to all the emergency personnel who have risked their lives to assist others. My office stands ready to help. If you need assistance, you can call my office at 210-704-1080, email me at Lloyd.Doggett@mail.house.gov, or stop by my district office at 217 W. Travis.
05.17.2013	Full transcript below:REP. DOGGETT: Thank you Mr. Chairman. What happened here is outrageous and inexcusable and unless those of us who strongly disagree with the Tea Party on many issues defend it from any impairment and allow it to be as wrong as it wants to be, we impair our democracy. Mr. George, many charges have been made here this morning. You as Inspector General under Title 5 section 2 have a statutory responsibility as Inspector General to prevent and detect fraud and abuse in the programs and operations of the IRS, do you not? Inspector General J. Russell George: That is correct, sir. REP. DOGGETT: And as best I can determine, sir, you have fulfilled that responsibility faithfully and forthrightly. Let me ask you if using the extensive audit and investigation powers you have as Inspector General you have found any evidence of corruption at the IRS. IG George: No, not at this time, sir.REP. DOGGETT: And let me ask you sir, with your extensive powers, if you have found that our tax system is rotten at the core?IG George: No, definitely not rotten at the core, sir.REP. DOGGETT: And let me ask you sir, if you have, using your statutory powers and fulfilling your responsibility, determined that the IRS picks who wins and who loses in America. IG George: I don’t believe that is the case.REP. DOGGETT: No sir. You have not. And the statements that were made and the very inflammatory charges at the beginning of this hearing—it is obvious have no basis in fact, at least any fact that has yet been demonstrated this morning. It is important that in addressing and fully correcting one wrong, we not commit and be involved in other wrongs, such as encouraging the proliferation of secret corporate money, not just the proliferation and pollution of our democracy by that money, but that it be tax-subsidized secret corporate money. That we not permit those who have a fundamental disagreement with the progressive tax system using this incident as a basis for shifting even more of the burden of financing our defense and our central government services onto working people. That we not permit those who have an agenda that is now been voted 37 times to try to undermine the full and effective implementation of the Affordable Health Care Act so that the health care crisis is ended for families across this country. That’s what’s at stake here, that’s what’s been discussed here. It is not based on any fact associated with this investigation to this date, as indicated by the Republican-appointed Inspector General whose job it was to determine whether any of these charges had merit. Let me move to an area where I disagree with some of my Democratic colleagues and their comments this morning. I don’t believe there’s any lack of clarity in the statute here. The statute that is in effect, has been in effect for decades and it requires that before there is tax-exempt status, as Mr. Lawrence O’Donnell, as the Crew Group, the Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington has pointed out in a petition, you are to be denied this status if you are not exclusively engaged in social welfare according to the statute, is that not correct? The statute is explicit. It uses the word “exclusively.” The regulation the IRS adopted 30 or 40 years ago uses different language. IG George: Mr. Doggett, I have to demure the Secretary; that’s a tax policy question and I’m not in a position-REP. DOGGETT: I’m not asking you for tax policy, I’m just asking for a clear reading of the statute. And a clear reading of the statute that has been in place for decades and is in place today says that there should be a denial of tax-exempt status to any group that is not exclusively engaged in social welfare operations and it was only after a regulation adopted long ago, long before any of you were at the IRS, that changed exclusively to primarily, that there was any discretion for this section to be involved in this operation. IG George: Mr. Doggett, I do know that we have indicated that some clarification from those in the policy area of the Department of the Treasury might be needed in this area to help clarify again.REP. DOGGETT: Well, in April, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington filed a petition with the Treasury Department and the IRS to address that. If the statute, the clear wording of the statute had been followed, we would not be having to deal today with selective enforcement, we wouldn’t have any problems with enforcement in this area at all. And I hope that that petition is honored and responded to promptly, as I believe you have fulfilled your responsibilities, Mr. George, as Inspector General. Thank you for your testimony and, Mr. Miller, thank you for yours and for stepping aside. ###
05.17.2013	Full transcript below:REP. DOGGETT: Thank you Mr. Chairman. What happened here is outrageous and inexcusable and unless those of us who strongly disagree with the Tea Party on many issues defend it from any impairment and allow it to be as wrong as it wants to be, we impair our democracy. Mr. George, many charges have been made here this morning. You as Inspector General under Title 5 section 2 have a statutory responsibility as Inspector General to prevent and detect fraud and abuse in the programs and operations of the IRS, do you not? Inspector General J. Russell George: That is correct, sir. REP. DOGGETT: And as best I can determine, sir, you have fulfilled that responsibility faithfully and forthrightly. Let me ask you if using the extensive audit and investigation powers you have as Inspector General you have found any evidence of corruption at the IRS. IG George: No, not at this time, sir.REP. DOGGETT: And let me ask you sir, with your extensive powers, if you have found that our tax system is rotten at the core?IG George: No, definitely not rotten at the core, sir.REP. DOGGETT: And let me ask you sir, if you have, using your statutory powers and fulfilling your responsibility, determined that the IRS picks who wins and who loses in America. IG George: I don’t believe that is the case.REP. DOGGETT: No sir. You have not. And the statements that were made and the very inflammatory charges at the beginning of this hearing—it is obvious have no basis in fact, at least any fact that has yet been demonstrated this morning. It is important that in addressing and fully correcting one wrong, we not commit and be involved in other wrongs, such as encouraging the proliferation of secret corporate money, not just the proliferation and pollution of our democracy by that money, but that it be tax-subsidized secret corporate money. That we not permit those who have a fundamental disagreement with the progressive tax system using this incident as a basis for shifting even more of the burden of financing our defense and our central government services onto working people. That we not permit those who have an agenda that is now been voted 37 times to try to undermine the full and effective implementation of the Affordable Health Care Act so that the health care crisis is ended for families across this country. That’s what’s at stake here, that’s what’s been discussed here. It is not based on any fact associated with this investigation to this date, as indicated by the Republican-appointed Inspector General whose job it was to determine whether any of these charges had merit. Let me move to an area where I disagree with some of my Democratic colleagues and their comments this morning. I don’t believe there’s any lack of clarity in the statute here. The statute that is in effect, has been in effect for decades and it requires that before there is tax-exempt status, as Mr. Lawrence O’Donnell, as the Crew Group, the Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington has pointed out in a petition, you are to be denied this status if you are not exclusively engaged in social welfare according to the statute, is that not correct? The statute is explicit. It uses the word “exclusively.” The regulation the IRS adopted 30 or 40 years ago uses different language. IG George: Mr. Doggett, I have to demure the Secretary; that’s a tax policy question and I’m not in a position-REP. DOGGETT: I’m not asking you for tax policy, I’m just asking for a clear reading of the statute. And a clear reading of the statute that has been in place for decades and is in place today says that there should be a denial of tax-exempt status to any group that is not exclusively engaged in social welfare operations and it was only after a regulation adopted long ago, long before any of you were at the IRS, that changed exclusively to primarily, that there was any discretion for this section to be involved in this operation. IG George: Mr. Doggett, I do know that we have indicated that some clarification from those in the policy area of the Department of the Treasury might be needed in this area to help clarify again.REP. DOGGETT: Well, in April, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington filed a petition with the Treasury Department and the IRS to address that. If the statute, the clear wording of the statute had been followed, we would not be having to deal today with selective enforcement, we wouldn’t have any problems with enforcement in this area at all. And I hope that that petition is honored and responded to promptly, as I believe you have fulfilled your responsibilities, Mr. George, as Inspector General. Thank you for your testimony and, Mr. Miller, thank you for yours and for stepping aside. ###
05.17.2013	Rep. Doggett’s full remarks as delivered follow below:Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the Patients’ Rights Repeal Act. Like a broken record repeating the same old scratchy, sad verse, these Republicans cannot stop repeating their record of indifference to the healthcare crisis. They have given up on “repeal and replace” because all they ever cared about was the repeal part. As the party of No, this year, they have not advanced a single health care proposal as an alternative.I only wish that the Affordable Health Care Act were as good as they think it is bad. But to the millions who have received refunds from insurance company monopolies for overcharging, to the millions who are no longer denied coverage by the fine print in an insurance policy they didn’t write, to the seniors who are getting some help on their prescription drugs and preventive care, to the millions more who will be able to finally apply in October for coverage they do not have now, for the small businesses who will receive assistance in supplying their employees with the coverage they have been unable to afford in the past, you know this Obamacare? It works pretty well. Together, we could make it better. We could make it more accessible for more individuals, like the many people in Texas who will be denied by Governor Perry’s decision to refuse 100% of the costs of Medicaid protection. Together, we could provide more cost-effective care and do something more about spiraling healthcare costs. But really, the only true Republican alternative to Obamacare is Nothingcare. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"> ###
05.17.2013	Rep. Doggett’s full remarks as delivered follow below:Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the Patients’ Rights Repeal Act. Like a broken record repeating the same old scratchy, sad verse, these Republicans cannot stop repeating their record of indifference to the healthcare crisis. They have given up on “repeal and replace” because all they ever cared about was the repeal part. As the party of No, this year, they have not advanced a single health care proposal as an alternative.I only wish that the Affordable Health Care Act were as good as they think it is bad. But to the millions who have received refunds from insurance company monopolies for overcharging, to the millions who are no longer denied coverage by the fine print in an insurance policy they didn’t write, to the seniors who are getting some help on their prescription drugs and preventive care, to the millions more who will be able to finally apply in October for coverage they do not have now, for the small businesses who will receive assistance in supplying their employees with the coverage they have been unable to afford in the past, you know this Obamacare? It works pretty well. Together, we could make it better. We could make it more accessible for more individuals, like the many people in Texas who will be denied by Governor Perry’s decision to refuse 100% of the costs of Medicaid protection. Together, we could provide more cost-effective care and do something more about spiraling healthcare costs. But really, the only true Republican alternative to Obamacare is Nothingcare. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"> ###
05.07.2013	
05.07.2013	
05.07.2013	Washington—The Department of Education announced today the preliminary Title I allocations for school districts in central and south Texas for the 2013-2014 school year. The number for each district reflects both the five percent cut required by the automatic spending cuts that went into effect on March 1 and changes in enrollment. District<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"> 2012-2013 SY ($) 2013-2014 SY ($) Change % Change AUSTIN INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 31,787,647 28,656,945 -3,130,702 -9.85% DEL VALLE INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 3,566,268 3,389,009 -177,259 -4.97% SAN MARCOS CISD 2,310,860 2,079,774 -231,086 -10.00% HAYS CONSOLIDATED INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 1,523,727 1,569,164 45,436 2.98% LOCKHART INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 973,512 911,560 -61,952 -6.36% SAN ANTONIO INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 32,305,492 30,690,565 -1,614,927 -5.00% HARLANDALE INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 6,128,169 5,821,761 -306,408 -5.00% NORTH EAST INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 13,516,384 12,193,016 -1,323,369 -9.79% JUDSON INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 4,639,755 4,300,802 -338,953 -7.31% FORT SAM HOUSTON ISD 120,561 102,506 -18,055 -14.98% EAST CENTRAL INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 1,898,374 1,880,744 -17,629 -0.93% SCHERTZ-CIBOLO-UNIVERSAL CITY ISD 917,354 820,884 -96,470 -10.52% NEW BRAUNFELS INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT 1,354,132 1,219,078 -135,054 -9.97%
04.30.2013	
04.25.2013	Since 2009, the American Opportunity Tax Credit has helped students seeking higher education after high school. Originally authored by Congressman Doggett and enacted as part of the 2009 Recovery Act, the American Opportunity Tax Credit was extended through 2017 as part of the year-end budget deal. In his Budget, President Obama has proposed making the credit permanent. The American Opportunity Tax Credit Permanence and Consolidation Act of 2013 would implement President Obama’s proposal in a cost-effective and efficient manner, while also simplifying the tax code and making the credit work better for students who receive Pell Grants. This new legislation makes the American Opportunity Tax Credit permanent, with a cost-of-living adjustment for inflation, while also simplifying and streamlining the tax code. The permanent American Opportunity Tax Credit is a partially refundable tax credit of $2,500 for tuition, fees, and course materials for higher education. The credit is available for students who are enrolled both more than and less than half-time, though the credit is calculated in different ways for the two situations. There is no limit on the number of years that the credit may be claimed, but there is a lifetime limit of $15,000 per student. This legislation also improves the law by fixing an inconsistency in the code that currently disadvantages students who receive Pell Grants by allowing the American Opportunity Tax Credit to count toward education costs that Pell Grants do not cover. “This legislation makes permanent an important incentive for higher education and streamlines the tax code, replacing three higher education tax credits and a tax deduction with a single, unified tax credit to benefit all. This improved American Opportunity Tax Credit will be easier for families to claim. And for the first time, it will help students who receive Pell Grants cover their unmet college expenses,” said Rep. Doggett.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office">
04.17.2013	Rep. Doggett’s full testimony, as prepared for delivery, follows below: I am here today solely on behalf of an existing national park and an important one— the San Antonio Missions National Park. I appreciate this opportunity from you, from Ranking Member Grijalva and my colleagues. The Spanish Missions in San Antonio are really a unique treasure for Texans and for all of America. The Missions National Historic Park preserves the largest collection of Spanish colonial resources anywhere in America. It is an educational, historical and cultural resource that is each year bringing over a million people to enjoy and learn from it. The park is important to the understanding of Texas and of the development of the United States, and of course it has a very strong positive economic impact for San Antonio and Bexar County. HR 885 is a bill that would expand the boundary of the park, as shown on the map, by 137 acres. It has the support of all five of us who represent any portion of Bexar County. Most people of course know San Antonio from the Alamo. The Alamo is not on the map that I have here, it is to the north of that area. You can see Mission Concepcion, Mission San Jose which is on the map —you can see the green area that represents the small amount, the 137 acres, that would be added to the existing park. Thanks to the leadership of Judge Nelson Wolff there is a now a trail called Mission Reach so that you can get on downtown at about the Alamo and walk or bike all the way down to Mission Espada as this trail is completed in the very near future. After Mission San Jose, where we will be celebrating with thousands of people Mission Fest in a couple of Sundays, you get to Mission San Juan. That mission has just been restored with private funds — it’s more narrow than our hearing room. It’s a beautiful white stucco building, beautiful with its simplicity and goes back to a time that the Spanish were interacting with the Native Americans in San Antonio. A tremendous amount of private resources have gone into the restoration of Mission San Juan, Mission San Jose and now soon to be completed Mission Espada. This bill is one that enjoys the support of the Archdiocese of San Antonio. I was just recently with Archbishop Gustavo Garcia-Siller and Father David Garcia as we re-opened Mission San Juan. There has been other involvement of local officials. The line just north of Mission San Juan is our new veterans memorial bridge with the support of state Rep. Joe Farias. The legislation also enjoys the support of the National Parks Conservation Association, a group called “Los Compadres,” which is a group of citizens throughout the area that helps raise resources to promote the park, and the National Park Service. This committee is familiar with this legislation because it has considered similar legislation before. And what I’ve tried to do in the bipartisan bill before you today is to include every provision that this committee wanted such as: no federal purchase of land, no condemnation, that type of thing, with one exception. And that is that the bill as filed includes a study to explore the possibility of expanding the park to include some old ranch lands that were associated with the Missions. I understand that there is some objection on the committee to that and let me say our goal is to get this additional 137 acres connected to the park. If the committee feels that the study stands in the way of passing this bipartisan bill please amend it and give us the rest of the bill. This bill will not become law without the support of Sen. Cornyn and Sen. Cruz over in the United States Senate. I believe it will have that, but as you know they talk longer and take a little longer to consider things over there, and it would be really helpful to us with this broad support to get it over to them as soon as possible. I served on this committee myself under Chairman Hansen many years ago. I understand the views are as strongly felt as they are this morning on different issues concerning natural resources before the committee. But I believe we have a bill that committee understands; it’s a modest step that will really enhance a national treasure and I hope you can move on it promptly. I stand ready to answer any questions you might have and I think some of my colleagues will be submitting written testimony in support of the bill aware that the committee is very familiar with its provisions.
04.17.2013	Rep. Doggett’s full testimony, as prepared for delivery, follows below: I am here today solely on behalf of an existing national park and an important one— the San Antonio Missions National Park. I appreciate this opportunity from you, from Ranking Member Grijalva and my colleagues. The Spanish Missions in San Antonio are really a unique treasure for Texans and for all of America. The Missions National Historic Park preserves the largest collection of Spanish colonial resources anywhere in America. It is an educational, historical and cultural resource that is each year bringing over a million people to enjoy and learn from it. The park is important to the understanding of Texas and of the development of the United States, and of course it has a very strong positive economic impact for San Antonio and Bexar County. HR 885 is a bill that would expand the boundary of the park, as shown on the map, by 137 acres. It has the support of all five of us who represent any portion of Bexar County. Most people of course know San Antonio from the Alamo. The Alamo is not on the map that I have here, it is to the north of that area. You can see Mission Concepcion, Mission San Jose which is on the map —you can see the green area that represents the small amount, the 137 acres, that would be added to the existing park. Thanks to the leadership of Judge Nelson Wolff there is a now a trail called Mission Reach so that you can get on downtown at about the Alamo and walk or bike all the way down to Mission Espada as this trail is completed in the very near future. After Mission San Jose, where we will be celebrating with thousands of people Mission Fest in a couple of Sundays, you get to Mission San Juan. That mission has just been restored with private funds — it’s more narrow than our hearing room. It’s a beautiful white stucco building, beautiful with its simplicity and goes back to a time that the Spanish were interacting with the Native Americans in San Antonio. A tremendous amount of private resources have gone into the restoration of Mission San Juan, Mission San Jose and now soon to be completed Mission Espada. This bill is one that enjoys the support of the Archdiocese of San Antonio. I was just recently with Archbishop Gustavo Garcia-Siller and Father David Garcia as we re-opened Mission San Juan. There has been other involvement of local officials. The line just north of Mission San Juan is our new veterans memorial bridge with the support of state Rep. Joe Farias. The legislation also enjoys the support of the National Parks Conservation Association, a group called “Los Compadres,” which is a group of citizens throughout the area that helps raise resources to promote the park, and the National Park Service. This committee is familiar with this legislation because it has considered similar legislation before. And what I’ve tried to do in the bipartisan bill before you today is to include every provision that this committee wanted such as: no federal purchase of land, no condemnation, that type of thing, with one exception. And that is that the bill as filed includes a study to explore the possibility of expanding the park to include some old ranch lands that were associated with the Missions. I understand that there is some objection on the committee to that and let me say our goal is to get this additional 137 acres connected to the park. If the committee feels that the study stands in the way of passing this bipartisan bill please amend it and give us the rest of the bill. This bill will not become law without the support of Sen. Cornyn and Sen. Cruz over in the United States Senate. I believe it will have that, but as you know they talk longer and take a little longer to consider things over there, and it would be really helpful to us with this broad support to get it over to them as soon as possible. I served on this committee myself under Chairman Hansen many years ago. I understand the views are as strongly felt as they are this morning on different issues concerning natural resources before the committee. But I believe we have a bill that committee understands; it’s a modest step that will really enhance a national treasure and I hope you can move on it promptly. I stand ready to answer any questions you might have and I think some of my colleagues will be submitting written testimony in support of the bill aware that the committee is very familiar with its provisions.
04.17.2013	Washington—Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett was presented with the Child Welfare League of America’s Advocate of the Year award for his work on behalf of children as Ranking Democrat of the Human Resources Subcommittee. Specifically, the League praised his work on the Protect Our Kids Act, a new law to establish a national commission to develop recommendations to reduce child abuse and neglect. “This issue is particularly important to me,” Rep. Doggett said. “Texas has the highest rate of child abuse and neglect fatalities in the nation. We are aware that there are so many, many children across the country who lose their lives or are permanently scarred by abuse from a caretaker. This commission provides us with the opportunity to take an important step forward in developing a national strategy to protect our most vulnerable children from violence.”<?xml:namespace prefix = o>
04.17.2013	Washington—Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett was presented with the Child Welfare League of America’s Advocate of the Year award for his work on behalf of children as Ranking Democrat of the Human Resources Subcommittee. Specifically, the League praised his work on the Protect Our Kids Act, a new law to establish a national commission to develop recommendations to reduce child abuse and neglect. “This issue is particularly important to me,” Rep. Doggett said. “Texas has the highest rate of child abuse and neglect fatalities in the nation. We are aware that there are so many, many children across the country who lose their lives or are permanently scarred by abuse from a caretaker. This commission provides us with the opportunity to take an important step forward in developing a national strategy to protect our most vulnerable children from violence.”<?xml:namespace prefix = o>
04.01.2013	
03.19.2013	Early childhood education is not just a policy for my family, it is a tradition. My wife Libby was a first grade bilingual teacher before becoming a national leader in pre-k education. Currently, she connects some our most vulnerable families to a range of services to better ensure their children are healthy and prepared for school and life. My daughter Cathy is also a leader in early childhood education. Investing in education is the key to keeping Texas and America on the cutting-edge and competitive. San Antonio has made pre-k a priority—and I am sure that this effort, coupled with my commitment to these initiatives at the federal level, can make a real difference for some of our youngest Texans. More education is a key to “more opportunity” in life. In previous State of the Union addresses, Obama spoke of his support for my “more education”— or American Opportunity Tax Cut that is good for $2,500 toward the cost of tuition and textbooks for students seeking more education after high school at places like the University of Texas at San Antonio and Alamo Colleges. Though this vital tax cut was recently extended for five years in legislation to avert the so-called “fiscal cliff,” it is my hope that Congress can come together on a bipartisan basis to make it permanent. Every student should be able to achieve as much education for which he or she is willing to work. Finding a balanced solution on sequestration to avoid education cuts is important. I expect that on both sides, there's been some overstatement, but I believe that the effect on public services like our vital neighborhood public schools over the next several months is a significant one and that we can avoid it if we have a combination of spending and revenue changes. Texas will lose approximately $67.8 million in funding for primary and secondary education. Head Start and Early Head Start services would be eliminated for about 4,800 children in Texas. I recently voted against the Republican's bill to continue to fund the government through the end of the fiscal year because it locked these spending cuts, or sequestration, in place. Instead, I continue to work on a balanced solution to end the sequester immediately. Whether working to ensure the federal dollars for Texas schools actually go to help in our classrooms or funding more programs like Head Start and Early Head Start in San Antonio, I am committed to putting our students first. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett is congressman for Texas' 35th Congressional District that includes parts of the San Antonio metropolitan area.
03.19.2013	Early childhood education is not just a policy for my family, it is a tradition. My wife Libby was a first grade bilingual teacher before becoming a national leader in pre-k education. Currently, she connects some our most vulnerable families to a range of services to better ensure their children are healthy and prepared for school and life. My daughter Cathy is also a leader in early childhood education. Investing in education is the key to keeping Texas and America on the cutting-edge and competitive. San Antonio has made pre-k a priority—and I am sure that this effort, coupled with my commitment to these initiatives at the federal level, can make a real difference for some of our youngest Texans. More education is a key to “more opportunity” in life. In previous State of the Union addresses, Obama spoke of his support for my “more education”— or American Opportunity Tax Cut that is good for $2,500 toward the cost of tuition and textbooks for students seeking more education after high school at places like the University of Texas at San Antonio and Alamo Colleges. Though this vital tax cut was recently extended for five years in legislation to avert the so-called “fiscal cliff,” it is my hope that Congress can come together on a bipartisan basis to make it permanent. Every student should be able to achieve as much education for which he or she is willing to work. Finding a balanced solution on sequestration to avoid education cuts is important. I expect that on both sides, there's been some overstatement, but I believe that the effect on public services like our vital neighborhood public schools over the next several months is a significant one and that we can avoid it if we have a combination of spending and revenue changes. Texas will lose approximately $67.8 million in funding for primary and secondary education. Head Start and Early Head Start services would be eliminated for about 4,800 children in Texas. I recently voted against the Republican's bill to continue to fund the government through the end of the fiscal year because it locked these spending cuts, or sequestration, in place. Instead, I continue to work on a balanced solution to end the sequester immediately. Whether working to ensure the federal dollars for Texas schools actually go to help in our classrooms or funding more programs like Head Start and Early Head Start in San Antonio, I am committed to putting our students first. U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett is congressman for Texas' 35th Congressional District that includes parts of the San Antonio metropolitan area.
03.13.2013	[Remarks as prepared for delivery follow below]: Mr. Speaker, I believe in the value of work. I voted for the 1996 welfare law because I supported moving people from welfare to work. Our laws should foster job creation. In this important effort, today’s bill is not so much malevolent as irrelevant to those poor people. Because of the way the TANF program is currently structured, only about one percent of the working-age adults across America who are poor are participating in TANF work activities. To most living at the bottom of the economic ladder, this bill and this program are largely irrelevant. Whether or not waivers are granted will make no difference in the lives of the overwhelming number, who are struggling to find a good job and climb out of poverty. And today, a higher proportion of our population lives near the bottom of that economic ladder than when welfare reform was enacted. In 2011, the poverty rate was 15% or 46.2 million Americans. The census bureau estimates about 350,000 of these individuals are in the San Antonio area. Amidst this rising poverty, we have the lowest level of poor children receiving direct cash assistance from TANF in almost 50 years. In my home state of Texas, only about one of every 20 poor children receive any such TANF aid. And when they do get help, it’s not very much. Short term extensions like today’s bill and its predecessors offer convenient political opportunities to reinforce old welfare Cadillac stereotypes and blame the poor for being poor. A previous extension focused on prohibiting any withdrawals of cash assistance at strip clubs, liquor stores, and casinos. While I certainly didn’t object to that restriction, it did not even attempt to address the core issue of how to get more Americans out of poverty. Nor does today’s bill. Poverty should be viewed as a major national problem to be resolved, together, not a weapon to be used for scoring political points. It’s the poverty of cooperation on solving the bigger problems, a poverty of balance that is resulting in so many children and their parents seeing so little progress. If you evaluate how TANF has operated over the last decade and a half based upon the number of poor people to whom it denies any assistance, it has been a great success. But if you evaluate it based upon the number of poor people, who have been able to utilize it to secure a good, long term job, at a livable wage, its success is, at best, spotty. I think that the responsibility for those failures is shared by many: states who did not do their part, an Administration that did not come forward with its own plan, and Republicans here in Congress who have continued to build on old false stereotypes as this TANF reauthorization has been considered. The only focus of our latest short-term extension has been on attempting to limit the Administration and giving the states added flexibility. In my opinion, in some areas, they have too much flexibility already and basically use TANF as a slush fund to fund some of the social services that they should be providing themselves, and were in some cases providing themselves, to assist those who were poor to move into the workforce and to develop better skills. I believe that today’s attempt to restrict state authority to strengthen welfare to work initiatives totally contradicts what is happening this very moment with a blockheaded Republican budget that would block grant unbridled authority to the states to weaken health care. As to whether States need additional flexibility with regards to TANF, there’s some good argument that they should, but what we really should be doing is a broad reauthorization of this program, looking at whether it fulfills its original purpose and whether we can make it work better for the taxpayer and for those that it is designed to provide temporary assistance to. I think all of us want to see fewer people receive assistance because they found a good job, but this is no indication that these folks that are not receiving assistance found a good job, and no one should consider it a success when fewer and fewer very poor children and families have access to a program meant to serve them. Instead of focusing on waivers and simply waving good-bye to the many people in America who are economically disadvantaged and want a better opportunity, who want some hope to get out of poverty, let’s try to do more to assist those people in more productive, long-term programs. Mr. Speaker, we have a lot of work to do to improve TANF and I wish that had been the focus of this legislation, and the focus of more attention from the Administration. We should measure the success of TANF on getting recipients into jobs, rather than simply measuring how many have been denied assistance. The TANF program needs to be part of the puzzle in addressing poverty in our country, instead of the broken link that it has become. Our focus should be on helping people find work, rather than trying to perpetuate myths about welfare queens. We need to conduct a thorough and careful review of more than just the work requirements to help make TANF satisfy its original objective. ###
03.13.2013	[Remarks as prepared for delivery follow below]: Mr. Speaker, I believe in the value of work. I voted for the 1996 welfare law because I supported moving people from welfare to work. Our laws should foster job creation. In this important effort, today’s bill is not so much malevolent as irrelevant to those poor people. Because of the way the TANF program is currently structured, only about one percent of the working-age adults across America who are poor are participating in TANF work activities. To most living at the bottom of the economic ladder, this bill and this program are largely irrelevant. Whether or not waivers are granted will make no difference in the lives of the overwhelming number, who are struggling to find a good job and climb out of poverty. And today, a higher proportion of our population lives near the bottom of that economic ladder than when welfare reform was enacted. In 2011, the poverty rate was 15% or 46.2 million Americans. The census bureau estimates about 350,000 of these individuals are in the San Antonio area. Amidst this rising poverty, we have the lowest level of poor children receiving direct cash assistance from TANF in almost 50 years. In my home state of Texas, only about one of every 20 poor children receive any such TANF aid. And when they do get help, it’s not very much. Short term extensions like today’s bill and its predecessors offer convenient political opportunities to reinforce old welfare Cadillac stereotypes and blame the poor for being poor. A previous extension focused on prohibiting any withdrawals of cash assistance at strip clubs, liquor stores, and casinos. While I certainly didn’t object to that restriction, it did not even attempt to address the core issue of how to get more Americans out of poverty. Nor does today’s bill. Poverty should be viewed as a major national problem to be resolved, together, not a weapon to be used for scoring political points. It’s the poverty of cooperation on solving the bigger problems, a poverty of balance that is resulting in so many children and their parents seeing so little progress. If you evaluate how TANF has operated over the last decade and a half based upon the number of poor people to whom it denies any assistance, it has been a great success. But if you evaluate it based upon the number of poor people, who have been able to utilize it to secure a good, long term job, at a livable wage, its success is, at best, spotty. I think that the responsibility for those failures is shared by many: states who did not do their part, an Administration that did not come forward with its own plan, and Republicans here in Congress who have continued to build on old false stereotypes as this TANF reauthorization has been considered. The only focus of our latest short-term extension has been on attempting to limit the Administration and giving the states added flexibility. In my opinion, in some areas, they have too much flexibility already and basically use TANF as a slush fund to fund some of the social services that they should be providing themselves, and were in some cases providing themselves, to assist those who were poor to move into the workforce and to develop better skills. I believe that today’s attempt to restrict state authority to strengthen welfare to work initiatives totally contradicts what is happening this very moment with a blockheaded Republican budget that would block grant unbridled authority to the states to weaken health care. As to whether States need additional flexibility with regards to TANF, there’s some good argument that they should, but what we really should be doing is a broad reauthorization of this program, looking at whether it fulfills its original purpose and whether we can make it work better for the taxpayer and for those that it is designed to provide temporary assistance to. I think all of us want to see fewer people receive assistance because they found a good job, but this is no indication that these folks that are not receiving assistance found a good job, and no one should consider it a success when fewer and fewer very poor children and families have access to a program meant to serve them. Instead of focusing on waivers and simply waving good-bye to the many people in America who are economically disadvantaged and want a better opportunity, who want some hope to get out of poverty, let’s try to do more to assist those people in more productive, long-term programs. Mr. Speaker, we have a lot of work to do to improve TANF and I wish that had been the focus of this legislation, and the focus of more attention from the Administration. We should measure the success of TANF on getting recipients into jobs, rather than simply measuring how many have been denied assistance. The TANF program needs to be part of the puzzle in addressing poverty in our country, instead of the broken link that it has become. Our focus should be on helping people find work, rather than trying to perpetuate myths about welfare queens. We need to conduct a thorough and careful review of more than just the work requirements to help make TANF satisfy its original objective. ###
03.11.2013	By Jeremy Gerlach The U.S. Department of Transportation has provided $296,000 to the city of San Antonio to expand both its B-cycle program and signage for Mission Park. “This funding will help provide San Antonio residents and visitors who want to experience the beauty of the missions with better ways to travel to and through the national park,” said U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett. “I'm pleased that this federal funding will support these Southside treasures.” Since the Bexar County Congressional Delegation proposed on March 1 to enlarge the San Antonio Missions National Park by 137 acres, an effort now moving through Congress, San Antonio's B-cycle Director Cindi Snell said that this funding comes at a crucial time. “We're looking to add at least five to six B-cycle stations to 'fill in the gaps' between Missions Conception and Espada,” Snell said after a bike ride from the San Antonio Zoo to the Witte Museum Thursday. “We know that 27 percent of our users are actually people on the Southside stations, so we are already talking about massive usage down there.” While the pricing — $10 a day, $24 a week, and $60 a year — isn't changing any time soon, Snell added that B-cycle already offers various holiday promotions and discounts. She pointed out her department is also exploring more flexible options. “We're actually talking to a similar bike-share program in Minneapolis to figure out a 'pay-as-you-go' system,” Snell said. “The price already looks pretty affordable in terms of the annual membership, but we're always trying to make it more accessible to people on the fly — the world is our oyster, so to speak.” While the bike share program already operates more than 300 bikes at 35 stations, Snell said that B-cycle is aiming to potentially increase those figures to 500 at 50 stations, respectively, by the end of 2013. In addition to B-cycle's expansion, Doggett's office pointed out that $137,000 of the grant will go towards improved signage and maps for park rangers to hand out to guests. A partnership with VIA may be considered, but transit representatives couldn't say whether it would take the form of additional or extended bus routes along the Mission trail.
03.03.2013	WASHINGTON — A bill to expand the San Antonio Missions National Historical Park has drawn the support of both Democrat and Republican lawmakers representing the Alamo City, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett said Friday. Doggett filed a bill that would add 137 acres to the national park, an architectural and cultural gem of San Antonio showcasing the Spanish colonial missions. “I am on a mission, together with my colleagues, to ensure that the missions national park receives this long-awaited expansion,” said Doggett, D-Austin. “You can't overstate the economic and cultural importance of the park to South Side San Antonio,” said Doggett, whose congressional district includes the park. Scattered parcels to be added to the park are owned by local entities and would be donated for the expansion. The bill also contains authorization for a National Park Service study, estimated at about $400,000, to identify additional properties that could be added. Having all five members of the San Antonio congressional delegation support the bill is “a real positive step,” Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff said. “I think we have a good chance to get it passed with bipartisan support,” Wolff said. Expansion of the San Antonio missions park could also help it receive World Heritage Site status and the financial benefits that could come from the designation. The missions were nominated by the United States for World Heritage Site status, which will be determined by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization in 2015. The San Antonio missions park is the only Texas park nominated for World Heritage status. Expansion of the 826-acre park would include land near Missions San José, San Juan and Espada. “Espada is inextricably tied to the rich culture of our community, and after many years, families still regularly congregate here,” said Rep. Pete Gallego, D-Alpine, whose district includes the southernmost mission. In addition to Doggett and Gallego, other lawmakers supporting the bill are Rep. Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio, Rep. Henry Cuellar, D-Laredo, and Rep. Joaquín Castro, D-San Antonio. Smith, the only Republican in the local delegation, said he was pleased that San Antonio lawmakers “can once again come together across party lines to support an issue that promotes our city and benefits our constituents.” There is no companion legislation in the Senate. Wolff said he is working with Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, to develop it. Last year, the Senate passed a missions expansion bill sponsored by Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas, but it died for lack of action in the House. The House bill was troubled by a split in the San Antonio delegation when Rep. Francisco “Quico” Canseco, R-San Antonio, stripped funding for a study from the expansion legislation. Democrats favored the Hutchison legislation, and Wolff sought the study to help expedite more improvements to the park. “The problem hasn't been in the Senate, it's been in the House,” Wolff said. The House bill filed by Doggett restores the study and is supported by the entire delegation. “We are strongest when we work together,” Doggett said. The National Park Service supports expansion of the missions park.
03.03.2013	WASHINGTON — A bill to expand the San Antonio Missions National Historical Park has drawn the support of both Democrat and Republican lawmakers representing the Alamo City, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett said Friday. Doggett filed a bill that would add 137 acres to the national park, an architectural and cultural gem of San Antonio showcasing the Spanish colonial missions. “I am on a mission, together with my colleagues, to ensure that the missions national park receives this long-awaited expansion,” said Doggett, D-Austin. “You can't overstate the economic and cultural importance of the park to South Side San Antonio,” said Doggett, whose congressional district includes the park. Scattered parcels to be added to the park are owned by local entities and would be donated for the expansion. The bill also contains authorization for a National Park Service study, estimated at about $400,000, to identify additional properties that could be added. Having all five members of the San Antonio congressional delegation support the bill is “a real positive step,” Bexar County Judge Nelson Wolff said. “I think we have a good chance to get it passed with bipartisan support,” Wolff said. Expansion of the San Antonio missions park could also help it receive World Heritage Site status and the financial benefits that could come from the designation. The missions were nominated by the United States for World Heritage Site status, which will be determined by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization in 2015. The San Antonio missions park is the only Texas park nominated for World Heritage status. Expansion of the 826-acre park would include land near Missions San José, San Juan and Espada. “Espada is inextricably tied to the rich culture of our community, and after many years, families still regularly congregate here,” said Rep. Pete Gallego, D-Alpine, whose district includes the southernmost mission. In addition to Doggett and Gallego, other lawmakers supporting the bill are Rep. Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio, Rep. Henry Cuellar, D-Laredo, and Rep. Joaquín Castro, D-San Antonio. Smith, the only Republican in the local delegation, said he was pleased that San Antonio lawmakers “can once again come together across party lines to support an issue that promotes our city and benefits our constituents.” There is no companion legislation in the Senate. Wolff said he is working with Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, to develop it. Last year, the Senate passed a missions expansion bill sponsored by Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas, but it died for lack of action in the House. The House bill was troubled by a split in the San Antonio delegation when Rep. Francisco “Quico” Canseco, R-San Antonio, stripped funding for a study from the expansion legislation. Democrats favored the Hutchison legislation, and Wolff sought the study to help expedite more improvements to the park. “The problem hasn't been in the Senate, it's been in the House,” Wolff said. The House bill filed by Doggett restores the study and is supported by the entire delegation. “We are strongest when we work together,” Doggett said. The National Park Service supports expansion of the missions park.
03.01.2013	"San Antonio is a wonderful city with a strong military history and rich religious heritage. At the heart of the city's heritage are the five missions founded in 1717, including the Mission of San Antonio de Valero, which we know today as the Alamo. San Antonio Missions National Historical Park is not just a Texas landmark, it’s a national treasure. I am pleased to be a cosponsor of this bipartisan bill that helps preserve and enhance the San Antonio missions for residents and visitors. This legislation is important for our culture and community. And I’m pleased that members of the San Antonio delegation can once again come together across party lines to support an issue that promotes our city and benefits our constituents," said Rep. Smith.“This legislation will go a long way to expand and protect the cultural and historical heritage of San Antonio,” said Rep. Castro. “This proposed expansion will ensure that all of our residents have more access to the missions, and can enjoy these cultural landmarks for generations to come.”“The San Antonio missions are a crucial piece of the history of the State of Texas, and we have to make sure that the National Parks Service has the ability to make needed improvements to the park and the ability to expand the areas under its protection. The lands operated by the National Parks Service reflect our nation’s historical treasures and tell the story of our country, and it is important that Texas’ history is preserved and included among them,” said Rep. Cuellar."Mission Espada is a treasure to San Antonio and to the 23rd Congressional District. Espada is inextricably tied to the rich culture of our community, and after many years, families still regularly congregate here. Mission Espada serves as a book-end on one part of CD 23, Mission Ysleta in El Paso as the other. I will work with my colleagues so that land surrounding the Mission is added to the designated park land," said Rep. Gallego.The entire Bexar County delegation will continue to work closely together to make this improvement to the park a reality.
03.01.2013	Austin unveiled another city landmark Friday afternoon. It's the African American Heritage and Cultural Center The center has been some seven years in the works and after times of not knowing if it would be built it has been and will honor African-American history in Austin. The mayor and U.S. Representative Lloyd Doggett who lives on the east side along with other dignitaries took part in today's ribbon cutting. The culture and heritage facility was a $4.4 million project helped along by a 2006 bond election and federal grants. People came in from California, Chicago, Detroit and several cities in Texas to be part of the grand opening. The center will marry progress and history in east Austin. It will also serve as a hub for the capital city African American Chamber of Commerce and play in the development of business, culture and the arts. "It's the culmination of a dream from many years ago and a lot of effort since that time that you've heard today so it really is a great occasion. I'm glad I had a small role in it, I can't tell you how happy I am for the folks who live on the eastside and it's a proud day for everybody," said Austin City Manager Marc Ott. "This was a rundown building that sat here for years, so like much of East Austin we've seen it transform into a place of beauty where we keep the old but we add around it and we hope to see more of that in east Austin," said Rep. Doggett. There are a couple of things to see at the center including a mosaic designed by Reginald Adams. He used hundreds of thousands of pieces of porcelain and glass. It's a tribute to the movers and shakers in Austin's African American community over the decades. Also the restored Dedrick-Hamilton house is a point of interest. It was owned by one of the first freed slaves Thomas Dedrick as early as 1880. FOX 7 caught up with Darwin Hamilton, whose great-grandfather lived in this home along with many generations including Darwin. "It's with great honor and appreciation that the city finally made this project come to fruition. It took about 10 years in all. My dad was born in this house, my grandma was born here I lived next door. I'm honored was completed and the city fulfilled its promise," he said. Darwin, who now lives in Pflugerville, ate many Thanksgiving Day dinners in that home.
02.28.2013	Washington-- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett released the following video message on the passage of the Violence Against Women Act reauthorization:
02.27.2013	We all want to find permanent loving homes for children who are placed in the foster care system, and we have some progress upon which to build. Our federal Adoption Incentives program, which provides financial awards to States that increase the number of children adopted out of foster care above a certain baseline, is an important part of this effort. These awards are due to expire at the end of September, and I am hopeful that we can work to reauthorize this program. Under adoption incentives, States become eligible for awards if they increase the number of: total adoptions; children over age 9 that are adopted; and the adoption of children with special needs. If sufficient funding is available, States also are granted awards for increasing the rate of adoption out of foster care. The goal of the Adoption Incentives program is to incentivize States to increase adoptions out of foster care and to quickly move children, who are unable to return to their parents, to a permanent home. States must reinvest those payments back into services – such as post adoption services – for children and families that are generally provided under the child welfare system. $43 million a year is available in the program through the end of FY 2013. Since the program was created, more than $375 million has been awarded and every State has earned some funding.In FY 2011, Texas received nearly $7 million in Adoption Incentives, the largest amount earned by any State. San Antonio has been viewed as a particular model of success for adoption. Bexar County has been creative in safely moving children into permanent homes. Each month the county hosts an adoption day event that allows dozens of families to complete their adoptions in a single day. These proceedings have allowed countless children to have shorter stays in foster care and move more quickly into stable homes with a new family that they can call their own.Judges in Bexar County understand that they are responsible for getting children who experience abuse and neglect into a safe foster environment AND responsible for placing that child with a permanent family if it does not become safe for that child to return home.These improvements to the local adoption system, encouraged and utilized by local child advocates like District Judge Peter Sakai –who has been a leader in this area for well over a decade– and CASA San Antonio have allowed faster and more efficient placement of foster youth into permanent families.We will soon hear from Nicole Dobbins who will discuss concerns she has about the lack of clarity regarding how States use these award payments. While some are using the awards to promote adoption and support newly adopted families, it’s important that these funds aren’t simply used to supplant money that would otherwise be spent on adoption activities. The inclusion of a maintenance-of-effort requirement as part of reauthorization could help ensure that these funds are used to improve child welfare in the States.I welcome the opportunity to discuss how we can continue to increase adoptions for children in foster care, but a good first step would be to avoid cuts in adoption programs that are set to occur within a few days under the sequester.Cutting funding for this program could mean less funding for post-adoption services for families that have adopted a foster child, or less funding to recruit adoptive homes through online adoption exchanges and promotional materials, or less support for training adoption workers.Another issue that deserves our attention is the Family Connection Grants program which is also scheduled to expire at the end of September.This program provides $15 million each year in grant funding to State agencies and community organizations that support activities that connect – or reconnect – children with their biological relatives when it is safe and appropriate to do so. This small program is fairly new and preliminary results show that it has the potential to have a positive impact in improving the lives of at-risk children. I look forward to hearing from today’s witnesses and working with all of my colleagues to continue to improve the well-being of all children in foster care.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office">
02.27.2013	We all want to find permanent loving homes for children who are placed in the foster care system, and we have some progress upon which to build. Our federal Adoption Incentives program, which provides financial awards to States that increase the number of children adopted out of foster care above a certain baseline, is an important part of this effort. These awards are due to expire at the end of September, and I am hopeful that we can work to reauthorize this program. Under adoption incentives, States become eligible for awards if they increase the number of: total adoptions; children over age 9 that are adopted; and the adoption of children with special needs. If sufficient funding is available, States also are granted awards for increasing the rate of adoption out of foster care. The goal of the Adoption Incentives program is to incentivize States to increase adoptions out of foster care and to quickly move children, who are unable to return to their parents, to a permanent home. States must reinvest those payments back into services – such as post adoption services – for children and families that are generally provided under the child welfare system. $43 million a year is available in the program through the end of FY 2013. Since the program was created, more than $375 million has been awarded and every State has earned some funding.In FY 2011, Texas received nearly $7 million in Adoption Incentives, the largest amount earned by any State. San Antonio has been viewed as a particular model of success for adoption. Bexar County has been creative in safely moving children into permanent homes. Each month the county hosts an adoption day event that allows dozens of families to complete their adoptions in a single day. These proceedings have allowed countless children to have shorter stays in foster care and move more quickly into stable homes with a new family that they can call their own.Judges in Bexar County understand that they are responsible for getting children who experience abuse and neglect into a safe foster environment AND responsible for placing that child with a permanent family if it does not become safe for that child to return home.These improvements to the local adoption system, encouraged and utilized by local child advocates like District Judge Peter Sakai –who has been a leader in this area for well over a decade– and CASA San Antonio have allowed faster and more efficient placement of foster youth into permanent families.We will soon hear from Nicole Dobbins who will discuss concerns she has about the lack of clarity regarding how States use these award payments. While some are using the awards to promote adoption and support newly adopted families, it’s important that these funds aren’t simply used to supplant money that would otherwise be spent on adoption activities. The inclusion of a maintenance-of-effort requirement as part of reauthorization could help ensure that these funds are used to improve child welfare in the States.I welcome the opportunity to discuss how we can continue to increase adoptions for children in foster care, but a good first step would be to avoid cuts in adoption programs that are set to occur within a few days under the sequester.Cutting funding for this program could mean less funding for post-adoption services for families that have adopted a foster child, or less funding to recruit adoptive homes through online adoption exchanges and promotional materials, or less support for training adoption workers.Another issue that deserves our attention is the Family Connection Grants program which is also scheduled to expire at the end of September.This program provides $15 million each year in grant funding to State agencies and community organizations that support activities that connect – or reconnect – children with their biological relatives when it is safe and appropriate to do so. This small program is fairly new and preliminary results show that it has the potential to have a positive impact in improving the lives of at-risk children. I look forward to hearing from today’s witnesses and working with all of my colleagues to continue to improve the well-being of all children in foster care.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office">
02.25.2013	Full text of Rep. Doggett’s statement follows below: You only need to look at the weekly reports on voting records here in Congress to see the dramatic contrast between where I stand in expressing our values and those of others who are elected in districts in the central and south Texas area, as well as our United States Senators. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"> I just don’t believe that we can grow American through cuts alone. Yes, I want to see our budget achieve better balance and fiscal responsibility. But across the board cuts that will total some $85 billion beginning next Friday, seem to me not the way to do it. I think we should be looking at a combination of revenue and more reasoned spending cuts instead of slashing everything from the Border Patrol to educational assistance so students can achieve their full potential and so our public schools have a little bit of help after the devastating cuts of Governor Perry and those that are pending in the Legislature now. I’d say let’s get a little revenue from the giant oil companies, by closing some of their tax loopholes. Let’s recognize that corporations as a whole didn’t add a dime of new revenue back on New Year’s Day when we reached agreement over the “fiscal cliff.” In fact, some of them received some major tax cuts. So I believe closing tax loopholes, ending some of these egregious offshore tax dodging schemes would help us with the revenues that we need to avoid cuts that really get into vital public services. I would use a combination of revenue and reasoned spending cuts. Why don’t we go ahead and do that? Because as has been true in the past, we cannot consider any measure, we cannot vote or debate on the floor of the House any measure without the approval of the Republican House Speaker. From 2009 until New Year’s Day, he wouldn’t permit major legislation to go to the floor that relied on Democratic votes and a few reasonable Republicans. We resolved the crisis on New Year’s Day with just that combination and as long as Republicans insist on across the board cuts to give them a little more leverage with the President, a little more bargaining room and deny Democrats and some Republicans to come together in resolving this problem, we face some major economic challenges. I’d say we’re lurching from the New Year’s Day fiscal cliff to perhaps an April Fools fiscal cliff. It will take determined efforts to overcome Republican intransigence to solve that problem and we need the continued input and counsel and demands of a concerned public to get Republicans to work with us to resolve the economic challenges we face in a balanced way where everyone participates in resolving the problem.
02.13.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union Address:<?xml:namespace prefix = o> “Deficit reduction—definitely, but cuts alone cannot grow America. From pre-K to post-grad, we must maintain our commitment to encouraging individual opportunity and strengthening the competitiveness of our workforce. Reforming immigration now for tax-paying, law-abiding immigrants will strengthen our economy. Making the DREAM Act a reality for promising young immigrants is only one part of what we need to accomplish.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"> “Corporations contributed no new revenues in the recent fiscal cliff deal. They ought to help a little. Closing corporate loopholes and limiting offshore tax gimmicks can provide revenue needed for vital investments and a balanced budgetary approach.”
01.31.2013	From the City of San Antonio: (San Antonio, TX) Tax season has arrived – the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) Program is ready to help.<?xml:namespace prefix = o> Twenty-three VITA sites opened across the city on Wednesday, January 30. Individuals and households who earned up to $55,000 in total income last year are eligible for free income tax preparation and electronic filing through April 15. The VITA program is sponsored by the IRS and a city-wide coalition of non-profit organizations and businesses led by the City of San Antonio, United Way of San Antonio and Bexar County, and Catholic Charities of San Antonio, Inc. “The VITA Program offers a crucial economic resource for San Antonio’s hard-working families,” said Melody Woosley, Interim Director of the Department of Human Services. “The City and our partners save our taxpayers millions in paid preparer fees while helping them take advantage of valuable tax credits.” VITA volunteers electronically file basic federal income tax returns for families and individuals. Volunteers are trained and certified by the IRS. Tax filers who receive a refund can check its delivery status by visiting the IRS website (www.irs.gov) and clicking on “Where’s My Refund?” or by using the IRS2Go smartphone app available for iPhone and Android. Filers can visit any VITA site through April 15 on a walk-in basis. “As a nonprofit organization responsible for ensuring our donors’ dollars are invested in effective and efficient programs and services, our volunteers think that VITA is one of our most valuable investments of time and resources,” said Toni-Marie Van Buren, senior vice president of United Way of San Antonio and Bexar County. “VITA facilitates the availability of free volunteer income tax assistance for low-income and underserved populations, and strengthens local families’ abilities to forgo tax preparation fees, pay bills, and save for the future,” she added. When visiting a VITA site for free tax preparation, all filers must bring the following with them: - Valid photo identification - Social Security Card(s) or Individual Tax Identification Number(s) for all family members - All W-2 Forms - Copy of prior year tax return (if applicable) - 1099 Forms (if applicable) - If filing jointly, spouse must be present to review/sign completed return VITA sites experience peak customer volume throughout February and again in April near tax deadline. All filers should arrive early and allow plenty of time when visiting a VITA site for tax preparation. “As a community-wide partnership, VITA brings everyone together – volunteers, banks, financial institutions, corporate sponsors, nonprofit agencies – to provide valuable, cost-free services and help strengthen working families. VITA is a significant return on investment for everyone involved, especially the clients,” said Catholic Charities Interim President/CEO Barb Dampman. Qualifying VITA filers who receive tax refunds also have the opportunity to earn extra dollars through the SaveUSA match-savings program. Eligible filers who open a SaveUSA account with all or part of their refund ($200 or more) for one year can earn a 50-percent match on top of their savings up to $500. Additionally, U.S. savings bonds are available at all VITA sites. For more information or to find a nearby VITA site and its business hours, tax filers can go online to www.vitasa.org or call the United Way Helpline at 2-1-1. Last year, VITA filed over 34,000 tax returns and recovered an estimated $65 million in refunds and credits for San Antonio taxpayers while saving them an estimated $9 million in tax preparation fees. San Antonio’s VITA Program is nationally recognized as one of the top performing programs across the country. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"> ### <?xml:namespace prefix = v ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:vml">
01.30.2013	By Juan Castillo American-Statesman Staff With bipartisan momentum building in the U.S. Senate for a sweeping overhaul of the nation’s immigration system, President Obama laid out broad principles for reform Tuesday, declaring “most Americans agree that it’s time to fix a system that’s been broken for way too long.” The president said immigration reform must allow those already in the country illegally the chance to apply for citizenship, while at the same time cracking down on security at the border and enforcement in the workplace. To a large degree, the president’s speech echoed cornerstones of a plan offered Monday by a bipartisan group of eight senators. Perhaps predictably on a complex, multifacted issue that for years has vexed lawmakers and at least two presidents, Central Texans’ reaction to the president’s remarks, as well as the Senate proposal, covered the spectrum. Previous attempts at immigration reform have cratered, most notably over the issue of a pathway to citizenship, which opponents view as amnesty for illegal behavior. U.S. Rep. Lamar Smith, a Republican who represents parts of Austin and Travis County and who serves on the House Judiciary Committee’s immigration subcommittee, said the nation’simmigration laws aren’t broken. “They just aren’t enforced,” Smith said in a statement on his website. On Monday, Smith blasted calls for a path to citizenship, saying it would only lead to more illegalimmigration. U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, said the president had broken promises to deliver immigrationreform before. “Let’s hope the president is finally willing to work with both houses of Congress in a transparent way to secure the border, enforce current law and address our broken immigration system,” Cornyn said in a statement. But U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, said the president’s remarks and the Senate bipartisan plan offered a good start. Doggett said he supports reforms that include a path to citizenship “for taxpaying, law-abiding immigrants and, of course, the DREAM Act,” legislation that would allow some unauthorized immigrants brought here as children the opportunity to apply for citizenship. “But I think the president and the Senate need to lead, because there are so many House Republicans who cling to their anti-immigrant fervor,” Doggett said. U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Austin, said any attempt at immigration reform must emphasize border security and must employ more agents as well as use of enhanced technology, drones and sensor surveillance systems used in Iraq and Afghanistan. “Until the administration creates a comprehensive border security plan that includes a reasonable definition of operational control we can measure, we cannot quantify success or failure,” McCaul said in a statement. The bipartisan Senate plan wouldn’t allow a path to citizenship until the border is deemed secure. Some critics were quick to question that provision. “That’s problematic for a couple of reasons: How do you measure that, and who gets to decide,” said Dan Kowalski, an Austin-based immigration attorney and an advocate of comprehensive reform. Kowalski said the provision could be used as a tactic to push the issue aside “so it never happens. But I take that with a grain of salt. It’s just a starting point, not a bill.” Ahead of the president’s speech, the White House issued a fact sheet noting that President Obama has doubled the number of Border Patrol agents since 2004. “Today border security is stronger than it has ever been. But there is more work to do,” it said. Employer groups which rely on immigrants for a significant share of their workforce applauded the president’s address and calls for immigration reform, including a pathway to citizenship. “The residential construction industry is one of the most intense users of immigrant labor, and it’s also labor that in many instances is very high-skilled,” said Harry Savio, public policy vice president with the Home Builders Association of Greater Austin. The Texas Association of Business, which represents about 3,500 members and businesses and about 200 chambers of commerce, voted to support comprehensive immigration reform, said Bill Hammond, the group’s president. “We think the only way you can secure the border is by allowing enough legal immigration so that the Border Patrol can focus on those who are lawbreakers, criminals, cartels, coyotes, and we won’t be chasing somebody who wants to work in a restaurant down in the middle of the desert in the middle of the night,” Hammond said.
01.30.2013	San Antonio-- On Tuesday, January 29, 2013, Rep. Doggett hosted an open house at his new San Antonio office located at 217 West Travis Street near Santa Rosa Hospital. “My new office here can help you with a federal agency. We also provide some of our talented students with nominations to each U.S. Service Academy. The most important part of my job is listening. Let me know how I can make your priorities my priorities.” said Rep. Doggett.
01.29.2013	Washington-- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee issued the following statement on President Obama and the Senate's announcement of a blueprint for comprehensive immigration reform: "I strongly support prompt action on comprehensive immigration reform, including a path to citizenship for taxpaying, law-abiding immigrants and making the DREAM Act a reality. The President and the Senate must lead because too many House Republicans still cling to their anti-immigrant fervor. We need much more public engagement to overcome intransigence."
01.28.2013	San Antonio-- On January 29 from 5:00—6:00 p.m., U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett and his staff will host an open house at his new San Antonio office located at 217 West Travis Street near Santa Rosa Hospital to discuss how he can be of assistance on federal matters. People who would like to attend are asked to RSVP to 704-1080 orLloyd.Doggett@mail.house.gov. "My new office here can help you with a federal agency. We also provide some of our talented students with nominations to each U.S. Service Academy. The most important part of my job is listening. Drop by and help me make your priorities my priorities," said Rep. Doggett. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office">
01.23.2013	Washington-- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett spoke at a Ways and Means Committee Hearing on the importance of honor our commitment to seniors and students as debt negotiations continue.
01.23.2013	Washington-- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett spoke at a Ways and Means Committee Hearing on the importance of honor our commitment to seniors and students as debt negotiations continue.
01.12.2013	San Antonio, TX-- Today, Rep. Doggett announced that his new federal office in San Antonio is open at 217 West Travis Street:
01.04.2013	According to data from the Texas Department of Family and Protective Services, 231 children died from abuse or neglect in Texas in 2011, representing a 124 percent increase in the past 15 years. The state saw only a 19 percent growth in its child population during the same period, said Madeline McClure of TexProtects, an Austin child advocacy group. Advocates say child deaths from abuse or neglect are a major concern in Bexar County, which saw a record number of such fatalities — 20 — in fiscal year 2011. Last year witnessed numbers almost as grim: 19 children died from maltreatment in 2012. McClure, who testified before Congress in support of the bill, said the commission will come up with standardized definitions and measures of what constitutes maltreatment that leads to death. “We know that shaking a baby until it dies is abuse, but what about the mother who falls asleep and her 4-year-old runs out the door and gets hit by a car?” she said. “More important, members will look at the root causes of abuse and neglect. We now have real data coming out of the social sciences, so they'll be able to identify and propose more effective interventions.” The most recent high-profile case in Bexar County involved the Dec. 27 death of 5-year old Josiah Williams, who officials say was beaten and starved. Police arrested Charleston Williams, the boy's biological father, and his stepmother, Crystal Williams, on felony injury to a child charges two days after the boy's death. According to police, the medical examiner found signs of serious abuse, malnutrition and neglect, including bruising all over Josiah's body. Commission members will make recommendations on ways to reduce child maltreatment deaths, according to Doggett, who originally authored the legislation in 2011 and introduced an improved version in 2012. The bill was passed by the House on Dec. 19. “It's definitely something that is needed here in Bexar County,” said Yolanda Valenzuela, vice president of Child Advocates San Antonio, which advocates for neglected and abused children in the Child Protective Services system. “When you bring 12 heads together, hopefully they will come up with better prevention strategies,” Valenzuela said. “What's happening now is we're just reacting after abuse or deaths have taken place, instead of preventing it from happening. We need to catch (abuse) early, vs. putting a Band-Aid on it after the fact.” The bipartisan commission will include six members appointed by President Barack Obama, three by the House and three by the Senate. Each member will be required to have experience in one or more areas relevant to child maltreatment. mstoeltje@express-news.net
01.04.2013	According to data from the Texas Department of Family and Protective Services, 231 children died from abuse or neglect in Texas in 2011, representing a 124 percent increase in the past 15 years. The state saw only a 19 percent growth in its child population during the same period, said Madeline McClure of TexProtects, an Austin child advocacy group. Advocates say child deaths from abuse or neglect are a major concern in Bexar County, which saw a record number of such fatalities — 20 — in fiscal year 2011. Last year witnessed numbers almost as grim: 19 children died from maltreatment in 2012. McClure, who testified before Congress in support of the bill, said the commission will come up with standardized definitions and measures of what constitutes maltreatment that leads to death. “We know that shaking a baby until it dies is abuse, but what about the mother who falls asleep and her 4-year-old runs out the door and gets hit by a car?” she said. “More important, members will look at the root causes of abuse and neglect. We now have real data coming out of the social sciences, so they'll be able to identify and propose more effective interventions.” The most recent high-profile case in Bexar County involved the Dec. 27 death of 5-year old Josiah Williams, who officials say was beaten and starved. Police arrested Charleston Williams, the boy's biological father, and his stepmother, Crystal Williams, on felony injury to a child charges two days after the boy's death. According to police, the medical examiner found signs of serious abuse, malnutrition and neglect, including bruising all over Josiah's body. Commission members will make recommendations on ways to reduce child maltreatment deaths, according to Doggett, who originally authored the legislation in 2011 and introduced an improved version in 2012. The bill was passed by the House on Dec. 19. “It's definitely something that is needed here in Bexar County,” said Yolanda Valenzuela, vice president of Child Advocates San Antonio, which advocates for neglected and abused children in the Child Protective Services system. “When you bring 12 heads together, hopefully they will come up with better prevention strategies,” Valenzuela said. “What's happening now is we're just reacting after abuse or deaths have taken place, instead of preventing it from happening. We need to catch (abuse) early, vs. putting a Band-Aid on it after the fact.” The bipartisan commission will include six members appointed by President Barack Obama, three by the House and three by the Senate. Each member will be required to have experience in one or more areas relevant to child maltreatment. mstoeltje@express-news.net
01.04.2013	“Texas has the highest rate of child abuse and neglect fatalities in the nation,” Doggett said in a statement. “The Protect Our Kids Act will help provide thoughtful consideration of the steps we can take to better protect vulnerable children.” Just because few Doggett-sponsored bills have become law doesn’t mean he has been ineffectual, said James Henson, director of the Texas Politics Project at the University of Texas at Austin. “Congressman Doggett receives a lot of attention for being a constant political target, but the partisan politics of redistricting lead some people to forget that, whether you agree with his politics or not, he is an active and effective legislator,” Henson said. “He has seniority and the knowledge of the process that comes along with such experience, and he uses these assets in the process.” Cal Jillson, a political science professor at Southern Methodist University, said that Congress has been passing more omnibus legislation that incorporates several measures and has passed fewer individual bills as a result, Jillson said. Sarah Dohl, a spokeswoman for Doggett, noted that recent legislation to avoid a spill off the fiscal cliff included an extension of higher education tax credit, which was proposed by Doggett in 2009. Doggett was the lead Democrat on a bill last year to improve and extend key child welfare programs, Dohl said. The Austin Democrat also passed a provision in 2010 to help people such as veterans, domestic violence victims and people with disabilities get better access to the justice system. Other returning members of Congress representing Austin and four surrounding Central Texas counties include U.S. Reps. Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio; Michael McCaul, R-Austin; John Carter, R-Round Rock; Blake Farenthold, R-Corpus Christi; and Bill Flores, R-Waco. Newly elected U.S. Rep. Roger Williams, R-Austin, also joined the delegation on Thursday. By Tim Eaton American-Statesman Staff
01.04.2013	January 4, 2013 It has been an eventful week for U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett. On Thursday, the Austin Democrat was sworn in for the ninth time as a member of Congress. And earlier in the week, Doggett witnessed the rare occurrence of one of his measures getting successfully voted out of Congress. The Doggett-sponsored measure, the Protect Our Kids Act, is on its way to the president’s desk, and if President Barack Obama signs the bill, it will mark the fourth time since 1995 that one of the bills sponsored by Doggett becomes law. The bill, House Resolution 6655, would establish a national commission to come up with recommendations to reduce the number of children who die from abuse and neglect, according to a press release from Doggett’s office. “Texas has the highest rate of child abuse and neglect fatalities in the nation,” Doggett said in a statement. “The Protect Our Kids Act will help provide thoughtful consideration of the steps we can take to better protect vulnerable children.” Just because few Doggett-sponsored bills have become law doesn’t mean he has been ineffectual, said James Henson, director of the Texas Politics Project at the University of Texas at Austin. “Congressman Doggett receives a lot of attention for being a constant political target, but the partisan politics of redistricting lead some people to forget that, whether you agree with his politics or not, he is an active and effective legislator,” Henson said. “He has seniority and the knowledge of the process that comes along with such experience, and he uses these assets in the process.” Cal Jillson, a political science professor at Southern Methodist University, said that Congress has been passing more omnibus legislation that incorporates several measures and has passed fewer individual bills as a result, Jillson said. Sarah Dohl, a spokeswoman for Doggett, noted that recent legislation to avoid a spill off the fiscal cliff included an extension of higher education tax credit, which was proposed by Doggett in 2009. Doggett was the lead Democrat on a bill last year to improve and extend key child welfare programs, Dohl said. The Austin Democrat also passed a provision in 2010 to help people such as veterans, domestic violence victims and people with disabilities get better access to the justice system. Other returning members of Congress representing Austin and four surrounding Central Texas counties include U.S. Reps. Lamar Smith, R-San Antonio; Michael McCaul, R-Austin; John Carter, R-Round Rock; Blake Farenthold, R-Corpus Christi; and Bill Flores, R-Waco. Newly elected U.S. Rep. Roger Williams, R-Austin, also joined the delegation on Thursday. By Tim Eaton American-Statesman Staff
01.03.2013	The bill was considered and passed in the House on Wednesday, December 19, and was passed by the Senate last night. The commission established in the bill will contain 12 members, with six appointed by the President, three by the House (two majority, one minority), and three by the Senate (two majority, one minority). Each member will be required to have experience in one or more areas relevant to child maltreatment. The commission will study a variety of issues, including data on fatalities, prevention methods, and the adequacy of current programs, and then make recommendations to reduce child maltreatment deaths. In a Ways & Means Human Resources Subcommittee hearing last year on the issue of child deaths stemming from neglect and abuse, Rep. Doggett concluded that “We are aware that there are so many, many children across the country who lose their lives or are permanently scarred by abuse from a caretaker. We know that there are many reasons why this happens—but [our goal] must be to improve our understanding of these causes and what we can do to prevent this kind of maltreatment of children.”
12.21.2012	December 21, 2012 Washington – Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, hailed House passage of the Medicare Identity Theft Prevention Act (H.R. 1509) to authorize the phased removal of Social Security numbers from Medicare cards. The measure was sponsored by Rep. Sam Johnson (R-Texas), Chairman of the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee and Rep. Doggett. Congressman Doggett originally authored and obtained House approval of the Medicare Identity Theft Protection Act in 2008, but the Senate failed to act on it. The legislation responded to a report from the Social Security Administration Office of Inspector General that urged the removal of SSNs from all Medicare cards. “With identity thieves becoming more sophisticated, a little prevention can save a lot of heartache,” said Rep. Doggett. “Millions of Americans carry in their wallet or purse something that makes them needlessly more vulnerable to identity theft – it’s their Medicare card. Seniors have spent a lifetime building their financial security. Their savings and credit should not be put at risk if someone steals their Medicare card.”Video of Congressman Doggett’s remarks can viewed here.The bill was considered and approved by a voice vote on the House Floor on Thursday. It would require the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to ensure Social Security numbers (SSNs) are not displayed, coded, or embedded on the Medicare card. Apart from the Social Security card itself, the Medicare card is the most frequently issued government document containing a person’s Social Security number. Private insurance companies, the Veterans Administration and the Department of Defense have already begun taking action to remove Social Security numbers from their cards.The report which prompted Rep. Doggett to introduce this measure concluded that “Despite the increasing threat of identity theft, CMS continued to display SSNs on identification cards it issued to Medicare beneficiaries. Displaying such information on Medicare cards unnecessarily places millions of individuals at-risk for identity theft. This is particularly troubling because CMS instructs individuals, many of whom are elderly, to carry their Medicare card with them when away from home. We do not believe a Federal agency should place more value on convenience than the security of its beneficiaries’ personal information.”
12.19.2012	Washington-- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett spoke on the House floor about his bipartisan Medicare Identify Theft Prevention Act to protect 48 million Medicare beneficiaries from identity theft:
12.19.2012	Washington-- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, the Ranking Member of the Human Resources Subcommittee, delivered the following speech on his bipartisan Protect Our Kids Act:
12.19.2012	December 18, 2012Washington—Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, Ranking Member of the Human Resources Subcommittee, joined his colleagues to call for the extension of the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Program as debt negotiations continue.“It is almost the night before Christmas and once again, I gather with my colleagues seeking assistance for 2.1 million jobless Americans who would be left without hope, wondering whether they will be able to put food on the table during the New Year if Congress fails to continue the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Program. Three unemployed workers, surrounded by scores of other folks who have lost their jobs, told their stories at today’s press conference and wiped tears from their eyes as they discussed the importance of these benefits to their families. One woman who survived breast cancer and is now raising her 14-year-old grandson discussed how she is not sure where they will live if she loses the lifeline of unemployment insurance while she continues to search for work. Unfortunately, these stories are all too common. In Texas, more than 110,000 people remain unemployed. As debt negotiations between Congress and the White House continue, we must work together to ensure these folks continue to have insurance. We must not push them over the cliff,” he said.
12.19.2012	
12.17.2012	Washington-- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, Ranking Member of the Human Resources Subcommittee, spoke about his bipartisan Protect Our Kids Act and the need to take real action to prevent child abuse and neglect deaths:
12.13.2012	President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, We salute your leadership in seeking tax fairness for all. Furthermore, we understand the importance of balancing fiscal responsibility with the responsibility to meet fundamental public needs. We certainly agree that the Bush tax cuts should be allowed to expire for the top 2 percent of American taxpayers, returning to the Clinton Administration level. This change would occur automatically if Congress failed to act by the end of the year. Some of our colleagues, who have long questioned the value of Medicare, have urged that in return for allowing these tax rates to return to their prior levels, we should terminate Medicare for millions of seniors. As Minority Leader Pelosi put it so eloquently, “It was their trophy in the talks on the fiscal cliff -- the price they asked seniors to pay before they voted to ask the wealthiest to pay their fair share.” This would be unacceptable. Raising the Medicare age doesn’t cut costs—it simply shifts those costs to those who depend on Medicare, to younger Americans who buy insurance through the new health insurance exchanges, and to states. The Kaiser Family Foundation estimates that the costs to states and the private sector would betwice as large as the savings-- $11.4 billion in costs versus $5.7 billion in net federal savings. For our colleagues to consider raising the eligibility age illustrates that their desire has less to do with addressing rising longer health care costs than it does being able to claim an ideological triumph. As the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities recently concluded on raising the Medicare eligibility age: “The goal should be to slow the growth of health care costs system-wide, while extending coverage to all Americans. This proposal does just the opposite on both fronts — raising costs system-wide and increasing the ranks of the uninsured.” Our nation’s older Americans have worked a lifetime for the promise of Social Security and Medicare. For those 65-and 66-year-olds who would now be denied the security of Medicare, their out-of-pocket costs would increase by $3.7 billion. Paying more for their health care isn’t the only negative impact on our nation’s older Americans. Raising the Medicare eligibility age to 67 would also increase the population of uninsured seniors by at least 270,000 people. While the House Republican budget phased in this change for those 54 and below, this only delays the pain. And such a phased approach would produce no budget savings for the next decade. It only indicates that this Republican proposal is about ideology, not deficit reduction. Even though we have made great progress addressing long-term rising health care costs with the passage of the Affordable Health Care Act, and even though the eligibility age for Social Security benefits is gradually increasing, it will do great harm to our economy and millions of seniors to raise the Medicare eligibility age or enact other significant cost-shifting alternatives. We do understand it is important to meet the challenge of rising health care costs, that is why we were willing to vote for changes to Medicare and in doing so, extended the solvency of the Medicare Trust Fund by almost another decade. As we continue to work to develop a response to rising health care costs and make Medicare stronger, we urge you in the strongest possible terms against changing the eligibility age of this vital part of retirement security. Sincerely, Lloyd DoggettJoe Courtney John Larson Louise Slaughter John Lewis Jan Schakowsky Allyson Schwartz Raul Grijalva Frank Pallone Barney Frank John Tierney Danny Davis Henry Waxman Bobby Scott Kathy Castor Earl Blumenauer Mel Watt Bill Pascrell Elijah Cummings Al Green Janice Hahn Jim McDermott Sheila Jackson Lee Judy Chu Robert Brady Charles Rangel Gene Green Rosa DeLauro Marcia Fudge Corrine Brown Eddie Bernice Johnson Eleanor Holmes Norton John Yarmuth Karen Bass Anna Eshoo Brad Miller Peter DeFazio Mike Honda Ted Deutch Yvette Clarke Sam Farr Adam Schiff Jose Serrano Bennie Thompson Bobby Rush Alcee Hastings Jim Langevin Keith Ellison Rush Holt Paul Tonko Tim Bishop Peter Welch Bill Keating Chellie Pingree Colleen Hanabusa Jim McGovern Jerrold Nadler Steve Cohen Donna Edwards John Sarbanes Linda Sanchez Doris Matsui Carolyn Maloney Emanuel Cleaver Grace Napolitano Suzanne Bonamici Loretta Sanchez John Garamendi David Cicilline Donald Payne Barbara Lee Lois Capps Jackie Speier Maxine Waters Laura Richardson Zoe Lofgren David Curson Lynn Woolsey Russ Carnahan Maurice Hinchey John Olver Betty Sutton Marcy Kaptur Mike Michaud Nick Rahall, II Gwen Moore John Conyers Dave Loebsack
11.14.2012	November 13, 2012 Rep. Doggett: Last weekend, I spoke at a Veterans Day Parade in Austin that honored Vietnam veterans. We celebrated all our brave men and women of the armed forces and their families for their service, and pledged our continued commitment to them. Rep. Doggett with veterans in front of the state Capitol in Austin, TX. On far right: John Miterko, legislative liaision for Texas Coalition of Veterans Organizations. You can view more photos of the event on Flickr.
11.09.2012	Best of Austin 2012 Best Elected Official: Lloyd Doggett (Readers Poll, Politics & Personalities) Longtime Austin Congressman Doggett has been targeted so many times by GOP redistricters that he has his mail sent to "General Delivery, Texas." This time they strung him out along I-35 to San Antonio – where he inspired a new generation of loyal Doggett supporters. We're happy to share him with the other River City, as long as his roots remain here – and we can celebrate the defeat of the DeLayers one more time. Doggett's been under sustained political and personal attack all those years, while still fighting the good fight for health care, education, and the interests of all Texans – it’s understandable he’s now won “Best Elected Official” seven times. The elephants have failed to defeat him, and more importantly, Doggett continues to fight for peace, justice, and equity – always with relentless energy and real courage.
11.09.2012	November 9, 2012 Best of Austin 2012 Best Elected Official: Lloyd Doggett (Readers Poll, Politics & Personalities) Longtime Austin Congressman Doggett has been targeted so many times by GOP redistricters that he has his mail sent to "General Delivery, Texas." This time they strung him out along I-35 to San Antonio – where he inspired a new generation of loyal Doggett supporters. We're happy to share him with the other River City, as long as his roots remain here – and we can celebrate the defeat of the DeLayers one more time. Doggett's been under sustained political and personal attack all those years, while still fighting the good fight for health care, education, and the interests of all Texans – it’s understandable he’s now won “Best Elected Official” seven times. The elephants have failed to defeat him, and more importantly, Doggett continues to fight for peace, justice, and equity – always with relentless energy and real courage.
10.26.2012	Austin–More than 30,000 Texas National Guardsmen and women have been deployed over the past few years to keep us safe at home and abroad. While armed to protect us, a KVUE Defenders investigation uncovered they may not be armed with the best system to track military equipment. KVUE News The number of property loss investigations at the Texas National Guard has increased more than 222 percent over the past five years. It includes equipment lost, missing or damaged during deployment and training. Some of the equipment includes $8,900 radio transmitters, night vision devices that cost $3,000 each, and one unaccounted for $497 handgun the Defenders found in randomly selected investigative reports. The total loss totals $3.5 million, out of $2.45 billion worth of all equipment maintained by the guard. Col. Amy Cook, a spokeswoman for the Texas military institution, attributes the spike to several reasons. She says a large part of the increase involves thousands of soldiers returning home from deployments who misplace to damage equipment assigned to them. “Yes, the turbulence of sending folks overseas and bringing them back does cause more financial liability investigations,” said Col. Cook. Some of that personal equipment includes $500 body armor vests and $336 binoculars the Defenders found unaccounted for in one property loss investigative report. Col. Cook also credits an improved tracking system that uses electronic cards to identify missing equipment. “So, it makes it easier in the electronic age to track who has what property and if something happens to that property – lost, damaged, destroyed – to figure out what happened to it,” contends Col. Cook. The increase also includes old property loss investigations that have been reopened by the guard. U.S. Representative Lloyd Doggett of Austin says more accountability is needed. “That increase in investigations may suggest some increase in policing to see if taxpayer funds are held accountable, but there are still too many of those that are going unresolved; too much property lost in action, but some of it may have been stolen,” said Rep. Doggett. If a solider is found liable for losing equipment, the guard does require that solider to pay a portion of that cost back to the DOD, but it’s usually a fraction of the original cost. The Department of Defense sets policies on how the Texas National Guard and other military institutions track equipment. For years though, federal auditing agencies say that tracking system needs improvement. A June, DOD Inspector General's report recently highlighted missing night vision devices within the U.S. Army that showed "Department of Defense contractors did not maintain complete accountability." In 2009, an audit found $2 billion in U.S. military equipment was accidentally shipped off to other countries "that could be used to threaten national security." “It's a defense department-wide problem. The defense department cannot pass the kind of audit we ask of other government agencies,” argued Rep. Doggett. Potential budget cuts could make it worse. If Congress can't reach a deficit-reduction deal early next year, thousands of soldiers could lose their jobs. What's unknown is whether staff in charge of tracking equipment are included in those cuts. “It's been one year after another, one part of the Defense Department after another, that while doing truly vital jobs for our national security, have not done an adequate job of assuring accountability,” continued Rep. Doggett. As a member of the House Budget Committee, Rep. Doggett plans to make further inquiries about this issue. Congress has set a deadline for the DOD to put in place policies for it to pass a basic audit in three to four years, just as other agencies already do. –By Andy Pierrotti, Erin Coker
10.26.2012	Austin–More than 30,000 Texas National Guardsmen and women have been deployed over the past few years to keep us safe at home and abroad. While armed to protect us, a KVUE Defenders investigation uncovered they may not be armed with the best system to track military equipment. KVUE News The number of property loss investigations at the Texas National Guard has increased more than 222 percent over the past five years. It includes equipment lost, missing or damaged during deployment and training. Some of the equipment includes $8,900 radio transmitters, night vision devices that cost $3,000 each, and one unaccounted for $497 handgun the Defenders found in randomly selected investigative reports. The total loss totals $3.5 million, out of $2.45 billion worth of all equipment maintained by the guard. Col. Amy Cook, a spokeswoman for the Texas military institution, attributes the spike to several reasons. She says a large part of the increase involves thousands of soldiers returning home from deployments who misplace to damage equipment assigned to them. “Yes, the turbulence of sending folks overseas and bringing them back does cause more financial liability investigations,” said Col. Cook. Some of that personal equipment includes $500 body armor vests and $336 binoculars the Defenders found unaccounted for in one property loss investigative report. Col. Cook also credits an improved tracking system that uses electronic cards to identify missing equipment. “So, it makes it easier in the electronic age to track who has what property and if something happens to that property – lost, damaged, destroyed – to figure out what happened to it,” contends Col. Cook. The increase also includes old property loss investigations that have been reopened by the guard. U.S. Representative Lloyd Doggett of Austin says more accountability is needed. “That increase in investigations may suggest some increase in policing to see if taxpayer funds are held accountable, but there are still too many of those that are going unresolved; too much property lost in action, but some of it may have been stolen,” said Rep. Doggett. If a solider is found liable for losing equipment, the guard does require that solider to pay a portion of that cost back to the DOD, but it’s usually a fraction of the original cost. The Department of Defense sets policies on how the Texas National Guard and other military institutions track equipment. For years though, federal auditing agencies say that tracking system needs improvement. A June, DOD Inspector General's report recently highlighted missing night vision devices within the U.S. Army that showed "Department of Defense contractors did not maintain complete accountability." In 2009, an audit found $2 billion in U.S. military equipment was accidentally shipped off to other countries "that could be used to threaten national security." “It's a defense department-wide problem. The defense department cannot pass the kind of audit we ask of other government agencies,” argued Rep. Doggett. Potential budget cuts could make it worse. If Congress can't reach a deficit-reduction deal early next year, thousands of soldiers could lose their jobs. What's unknown is whether staff in charge of tracking equipment are included in those cuts. “It's been one year after another, one part of the Defense Department after another, that while doing truly vital jobs for our national security, have not done an adequate job of assuring accountability,” continued Rep. Doggett. As a member of the House Budget Committee, Rep. Doggett plans to make further inquiries about this issue. Congress has set a deadline for the DOD to put in place policies for it to pass a basic audit in three to four years, just as other agencies already do. –By Andy Pierrotti, Erin Coker
10.02.2012	October 2, 2012 Washington – Today, the First Focus Campaign for Children, a national, bipartisan child advocacy group, recognized Representative Lloyd Doggett as a “Champion for Children” for leadership on issues important to children during the 112th Congress (2011-2012). “Lots of politicians talk about kids’ issues, but few back it up,” said Bruce Lesley, president of the Campaign for Children. “Representative Doggett delivered for kids.” Rep. Doggett was one of only 50 Members of Congress whose extraordinary efforts to protect and improve the future of America’s next generation earned recognition as a Champion. “It is an honor to receive this recognition from a group that does such good work advocating for the needs of our youngest Americans. The budget and policy decisions made in Washington need to be focused on the impact on the health and well-being of our children. I will continue advocating for common-sense policies to protect children in these tough economic times,” said Congressman Doggett. In selecting Champions, the First Focus Campaign for Children noted leaders who introduced, co-sponsored, and voted for legislation to meet children’s needs. In addition, the organization considered Members who demonstrated extraordinary initiative by spearheading activities such as sponsoring hearings or garnering the support of their colleagues to improve the health and well-being of children. This is the Campaign for Children’s third annual class of Champions for Children. ### The First Focus Campaign for Children is a 501(c)(4) nonprofit organization affiliated with First Focus, a bipartisan children’s advocacy organization. The Campaign for Children advocates directly for legislative change in Congress to ensure children and families are a priority in federal policy and budget decisions. For more information, visit www.ffcampaignforchildren.org.
09.27.2012	September 23, 2012 Rep. Doggett: Reaching more of our neighbors through American Sign Language, I recently appeared on ACCESS News with Tamara Suiter-Ocuto (and signing provided by Jennifer Stoker).The program already aired on KLRU and will run again on Channel 19 of the ACC Network. Video courtesy of ACCESS News
09.20.2012	September 20, 2012 Washington—Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett spoke on the House floor during debate on TANF waivers in strong opposition to a Republican resolution that would undermine attempts by states to implement new and better ways to move individuals from welfare to work. “Every able-bodied person who has the capacity to work, should work yet unfortunately, Republicans talk work for everyone else, but they just don’t do much work in this Congress,” said Rep. Doggett. [Rep. Doggett’s full remarks, as drafted, follow below] “As one who believes in the value of work, I voted for the 1996 law to transform welfare to workfare. Now as the Ranking Democrat on the Subcommittee overseeing this law, I want to strengthen reform and ensure that every able-bodied American who can work is working, —say, someone like Mitt Romney’s father, who long ago was on a form of welfare himself before becoming wealthy. Those are the people who should be working. Unfortunately, Republicans talk work for everyone else, but they just don’t do much work in this Congress. Just like the expired federal education law. They have been in power for over 20 months, but no administrative waivers would be needed here, if Republicans had simply done their own work to renew workfare. The real question is not whether we emphasize work but how--how we achieve the most effective ways to get more people working. The Administration has simply responded to Republican Governors and some Democrats, who are seeking more flexibility and less paper work, who sought better ways to get more people working. Even the Republican staff director who wrote much of the original Welfare Reform law and who recently spoke with 42 state TANF directors, says these Republican attacks are “exaggerated.” So why would Republicans be here today when there is so much other work this Congress has failed to do? Why would they present what is really an anti-work resolution masquerading as pro-work? Because particularly during this week, such a difficult week for Mitt Romney, they are a little desperate. They think they can hoodwink enough Americans to turn on their neighbors by falsely dividing us, dividing us between the “makers and takers,” “manufacturers and moochers,” “producers and parasites.” That is not America. Whenever they bump into an inconvenient fact, like what actually is actually involved in this legislation, they just ignore it. They have made this Congress largely a fact-free zone. When confronted with reality, they hold up those signs that say “Believe”— they left a word off, what they really mean is “Make Believe.” And fantasy, that is what they bring with this legislation. Fantasy is a mighty poor way to govern America.”
09.20.2012	September 20, 2012 Washington—Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett spoke on the House floor during debate on TANF waivers in strong opposition to a Republican resolution that would undermine attempts by states to implement new and better ways to move individuals from welfare to work. “Every able-bodied person who has the capacity to work, should work yet unfortunately, Republicans talk work for everyone else, but they just don’t do much work in this Congress,” said Rep. Doggett. [Rep. Doggett’s full remarks, as drafted, follow below] “As one who believes in the value of work, I voted for the 1996 law to transform welfare to workfare. Now as the Ranking Democrat on the Subcommittee overseeing this law, I want to strengthen reform and ensure that every able-bodied American who can work is working, —say, someone like Mitt Romney’s father, who long ago was on a form of welfare himself before becoming wealthy. Those are the people who should be working. Unfortunately, Republicans talk work for everyone else, but they just don’t do much work in this Congress. Just like the expired federal education law. They have been in power for over 20 months, but no administrative waivers would be needed here, if Republicans had simply done their own work to renew workfare. The real question is not whether we emphasize work but how--how we achieve the most effective ways to get more people working. The Administration has simply responded to Republican Governors and some Democrats, who are seeking more flexibility and less paper work, who sought better ways to get more people working. Even the Republican staff director who wrote much of the original Welfare Reform law and who recently spoke with 42 state TANF directors, says these Republican attacks are “exaggerated.” So why would Republicans be here today when there is so much other work this Congress has failed to do? Why would they present what is really an anti-work resolution masquerading as pro-work? Because particularly during this week, such a difficult week for Mitt Romney, they are a little desperate. They think they can hoodwink enough Americans to turn on their neighbors by falsely dividing us, dividing us between the “makers and takers,” “manufacturers and moochers,” “producers and parasites.” That is not America. Whenever they bump into an inconvenient fact, like what actually is actually involved in this legislation, they just ignore it. They have made this Congress largely a fact-free zone. When confronted with reality, they hold up those signs that say “Believe”— they left a word off, what they really mean is “Make Believe.” And fantasy, that is what they bring with this legislation. Fantasy is a mighty poor way to govern America.”
09.07.2012	September 7, 2012 Rep. Doggett: I greatly enjoyed interviewing with Tamara Suiter-Ocuto for her American Sign Language (ASL) news program on ACCESS News. Jennifer Stoker, pictured on the right, kindly translated for both of us. This unique ASL program airs with captions and a voiceover. We covered many topics, and I am thankful for their efforts to help communicate to all our neighbors. I have been involved in the Texas deaf community since my work as a young state senator, and authored a Texas law expanding the rights of deaf persons to interpreters in civil, administrative, and criminal proceedings. The episode is scheduled to air on KLRU-TV on September 23 at 1:00 p.m. and thereafter on Channel 19 of the ACC Network.
09.05.2012	Since 2008, I have led a bipartisan effort to remove Social Security numbers from Medicare cards to help protect seniors and people with disabilities from identity theft. This article from the Wall Street Journal demonstrates the unnecessary hassle and risk created by keeping Social Security numbers on Medicare cards. Wall Street Journal Readers' Tips for Medicare Cards By TOM HERMAN Q: I have been complaining for some time about the fact that my Social Security number is on my Medicare card, and the system absolutely doesn't seem to care [about the risk this poses for identity theft, which has been the subject of recent columns in this space]. So here is a suggestion on how to reduce the risk of identity theft: I simply made a color copy of my card with the number deleted, and that's what I carry. After four years, no problems yet. Isn't government great? D.C., San Diego A: Many thanks to you and many other readers for this and similar suggestions. Several readers say they have used this photocopying technique for many years without any problems. Some readers made copies of their Medicare card after eliminating the entire Social Security number. Others made copies after eliminating the last four digits. "For the last couple of years, I have been carrying my Medicare card with the last four digits of my [Social Security] number cut out," says another California reader. "I have not found any problem in providing that information when asked for it by a medical provider and feel I have reduced any dangers associated with carrying around a piece of ID that normally contains my full [Social Security] number." For more tips on how to reduce your chances of identity theft, check out the website of Privacy Rights Clearinghouse. Look under "Fact Sheets" for Fact Sheet 17. Here is one suggestion from that fact sheet that's worth considering: "If you feel you must carry your health insurance or Medicare card with you at all times, try this. Photocopy the card and cut it down to wallet size. Then remove or cut out the last four digits of the [Social Security number]. Carry that with you rather than the actual card. But be sure to carry your original Medicare card with you the first time you visit your health-care provider. They are likely to want to make a photocopy of it for their files." "Exactly right," says Sally Hurme, an elder-law attorney with AARP. "That's what I do: I made a photocopy of my Medicare card and blacked out the last four numbers of my Social Security number. I've never had any problems, never had an issue." Rep. Sam Johnson, a Texas Republican, and Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat, have introduced legislation that would require elimination of the Social Security number from Medicare cards.
08.17.2012	August 17, 2012 Washington—Today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett, a senior member of the House Ways and Means and Budget Committees, announced $149,000 in federal funds is available for Texas State University from the National Science Foundation. The funds will help enhance the undergraduate computer science curriculum to better prepare students for real-world deployment of their computer programming skills. Outreach activities associated with this curriculum improvement will help to increase the participation of female and Hispanic Central Texas students in the computer science field. “Continued investments in STEM education ensure that Central Texas remains on the cutting edge of our economy,” said Rep. Doggett. “We must prepare all of our students for the global workforce with the best education possible, especially in the science and technology fields.” Texas State Assistant Professor of Computer Science Apan Qasem also noted the importance of the funding. "The enhanced curriculum will equip computer science students with skills that are highly sought after by the computing industry. The project bears special significance as it will leverage Texas State's diverse student body to broaden the participation of both female and Hispanic students; two traditionally underrepresented groups in STEM disciplines," he said. Texas State’s Department of Computer Science will use the funds to develop course material to introduce parallel computing concepts in earlier computer science courses and to design a new upper-level course focused on parallel computing. The new materials allow students to learn both traditional sequential programming and more modern parallel programming throughout their curriculum. Funding from the National Science Foundation is critical to developing STEM education and to ensuring students are taught the modern skills and thinking patterns required in this career field. These funds will also help increase diversity in this fast-growing area of study.
08.15.2012	August 15, 2012 Washington—Claims made by Governor Romney that President Obama is somehow ending work requirements in welfare by giving States more flexibility to increase work by welfare recipients has failed all independent reviews of truthfulness. “The American people want to trust their leaders,” said Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sandy Levin (D-MI). “Governor Romney is quickly losing this trust by continuing to say things he knows, or should know, are false. Every independent fact checker has said his claims about the President eliminating work requirements under welfare are dishonest.” “Getting people back to work is precisely what this innovative approach is designed to achieve,” said Ways and Means Human Resources Subcommittee Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett (D-TX). “The only real threat to putting people to work is Romney’s promise to return to the Bush-Cheney economic policies.” Here are some of the reviews of the Romney campaign’s claims from those instrumental in creating the 1996 welfare reform law, as well as independent fact checkers. • President Clinton, who enacted the 1996 welfare law, said Romney’s ad saying the Administration is weakening work requirements for welfare was “not true” and that the Administration “has taken important steps to ensure that the work requirement is retained.” • Ron Haskins, the lead Republican Congressional staffer in charge of drafting the 1996 welfare reform law, has said “there is merit to what the Administration is proposing, and I don’t see how you can get to the conclusion that the waiver provision undermines welfare reform.” He also stated, “I think – and now remember I’m a Republican – that the [Romney] ad is very misleading.” • Politifact declared that Romney’s claim that the Administration’s waiver proposal would eliminate work requirements for welfare recipients was “pants on fire” false. The fact checker said the contrary was true, stating: “by grating waivers to states, the Obama administration is seeking to make welfare-to-work efforts more successful, not end them.” • FactCheck.org says the Romney TV add on the issue “distorts the facts” and is “simply not true.” It reiterates that work requirements are not being dropped under the waiver proposal, and that “benefits still won’t be paid beyond an allotted time.” • The Fact Checker at the Washington Post rated Romney’s “over-the-top” ad on welfare as deserving four Pinocchios for being so dishonest. ###
08.03.2012	August 3, 2012 Beginning August 15, 2012, you may access the deferred action application online at www.uscis.gov. The following is a message from Rep. Lloyd Doggett on the importance of applying and the work that remains to be done. The Immigration Policy Center estimates that 226,700 young people in Texas will be eligible to apply. The following information is from United We Dream, a network of youth-led immigrant organizations around the country. This information can be accessed on their website by clicking here. Rep. Doggett urges DREAMers to be cautious of people calling themselves lawyers, advocates, or notaries who are offering their help to young immigrants applying for deferred action under the new Obama policy. For information on upcoming events in our area, please visit the University Leadership Initiative’s website by clicking here. v\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} o\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} w\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} .shape {behavior:url(#default#VML);} What you should do · Make use of free or low-cost legal clinics from non-profit organizations, especially if you don’t have a difficult case (no criminal history or any other issues that may cause your application to be denied. Use the American Immigration Lawyer's Association directory to find a lawyer. · Make sure your lawyer is a member of her/his state’s bar association before you use him/her (you can search for your state bar association membership directory online). What you should NOT do · Don’t give anybody money yet! There is no application process at this time. Keep visiting unitedwedream.org and we will update you as the situation changes. · Don’t use the services of anyone calling themselves a notario or an unlicensed lawyer. · Don’t use the services of anyone promising to get you a green card as the result of the new Obama policy. · Don’t use a lawyer’s services just because they advertise somewhere or they are a friend of your family. If you have become the victim of a scam by a lawyer or notario you should report it to federal or state consumer protection agencies. For more information you can visit https://www.stopnotariofraud.org. · Pingback: Frequently Asked Questions over Deferred Action for DREAMers. « Arkansas Coalition for DREAM · Pingback: Warning on Lawyers and Notarios Background What does Obama’s June 15th announcement mean? On June 15th President Obama announced that the Department of Homeland Security will stop deporting young immigrants who meet certain conditions. In mid-August you will be able to submit an application to US Customs and Immigration Service (USCIS). If they approve your application, you will be able to get something called “deferred action”. You will be eligible for a work permit, a social security number, and some protection against being deported. Your application will need to be renewed every two years. What is deferred action? If USCIS approves your application, you will be granted deferred action. Deferred action means that the government has chosen not to pursue your case right now even though you are deportable under the law. Deferred action does not create a path to legalization. It does not allow you to petition for relatives to get any sort of legal status either. There is no new law to protect young immigrants from deportation. You will only be protected if USCIS decides that you qualify for deferred action and Department of Homeland Security personnel follow the new policy. You will not be given a legal right protecting you from being detained, so you cannot sue or appeal if the government ignores this policy. Didn’t the Obama administration try this before? In the past, the Obama administration has announced other policies to stop deportations. In June of 2011, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) said it would review 300,000 pending deportation cases and give deferred action to immigrants who have community and family ties if they don’t have criminal records. The results of the policy were poor: only 1.5% of people in deportation proceedings were given deferred action. According to the New York Times, only 500 immigrant youths had their deportations stopped as a result. We believe that the new policy will be more effective at stopping deportations. Unlike past efforts, the new policy does not require you to be in deportation proceedings. Instead, you can apply for it proactively. Criteria for eligibility are much clearer than those in the past. The new policy has also been given much more publicity by the White House than past efforts, which suggests that they are more serious about enforcing it. How is this different from the DREAM Act? The DREAM Act is a bill that was first proposed in 2001 and has not yet passed. If it were to become a law, the DREAM Act would offer young immigrants brought to the US as children a pathway to get green cards and eventually to become citizens. Unlike the DREAM Act, the Obama announcement is not a law and does not create a pathway to citizenship. Most of the same people who would have been eligible for the DREAM Act – young immigrants brought to the United States as children who are pursuing education or military service – are eligible for deferred action under Obama’s plan. Couldn’t Congress or a new president end the deferred action program? It is possible that Congress or a new president could end the deferred action program at any time. But we think the new program will not end in the near future unless it is replaced by the DREAM Act or another immigration reform law. Polls show that Obama’s deferred action policy has widespread support among voters. Presidential candidate Mitt Romney has not rejected the program and said he would replace it with a permanent law, though he has not given specific details about his platform. Eligibility Will I be eligible? You should be eligible if you meet the following criteria: Age · Under 31 years old on June 15, 2012 · Arrived in the US before age 16 · You must be at least 15 years old to apply · If you are already in removal proceedings, you are supposed to be protected under this policy even if you are less than 15 years old Continuous Presence · You must have lived in the United States continuously for five years, between June 15, 2007 and June 15, 2012. · You must have been present in the United States on June 15, 2012 Education or military service At least one is true: · You are currently in school · You have a high school diploma · You have a general equivalency diploma (GED) · You were honorably discharged from the US Coast Guard or Armed Forces No criminal history · You have not been convicted of anything below: · A felony · A significant misdemeanor · Three or more misdemeanors of any sort · The Department of Homeland Security does not consider you · A public safety threat · A national security threatFor more on eligibility, please click here. The Application Process How do I apply? There is no application process yet – USCIS is still figuring out the details. The government has said that the process will be available by mid-August. Do I need a lawyer? You may not need a lawyer, depending on how complicated the application process is and your personal situation. Do not pay a lawyer for anything in connection with this announcement at this time! No application process exists yet and we believe it would be unethical for a lawyer to take your money at this point. Even when there is a process, you should be able to get legal help for little or no cost from a non-profit organization. See our warning on lawyers and notarios. Beware of scams. Do not go to a notario. Do not go to anyone claiming they can get you a green card as a result of the Obama announcement. See our warning on lawyers and notarios. If my application is denied, will I be at risk for deportation? You will be at risk for deportation if you have a criminal record or if the government believes there is evidence of fraud in your application. Even if your application is denied, your case should not be referred for deportation unless there is evidence of a criminal history or fraud. Can I appeal if my case is denied? If your case is denied you will have no legal right to appeal. It is not clear if USCIS will let you apply again. What should I do right now? At this point, there are three things you should do: 1. Collect any documents that can prove the date you entered the United States and remained here between June 15, 2007 and June 15, 2012. These include: Financial records Examples: lease agreements, mortgage agreements, bank statements, checks, bills Medical records Examples: immunization records, a medical history report from your doctor School records. Examples: report cards, progress reports, diplomas, transcripts, GED certificates. You will also need to submit proof of current school enrollment, a high school diploma, or a GED certificate to qualify. Employment records Examples: pay stubs, employment contracts, direct deposit slips. Do not use employment records if they have fake information on them. Military records Other documents Any other records that will help your case from a church, union, or other organization2. Do a background check on your criminal history. Many states have systems for you to collect this information. In many cases, you can find it on your local county website or state government websites. Make sure you get them from all states where you believe you may have been arrested or convicted. You should not apply for deferred action without doing a background check even if there is just a small chance that you have any sort of criminal record. 3. Get involved with an immigrant youth group in your area. They will know the resources in your area and help you figure out the application process once it is available. 4. Attend a community education forum in your area. How much will it cost to apply? At this point, we don’t know how much it will cost to apply for deferred action under the policy announced on June 15. At the least, the cost will include a $380 fee for the employment authorization application. Additional fees may be applied. Applicants will be able to apply for a fee waiver depending on their economic means or situation. How long will it take to process the application? We don’t know yet. Currently, the processing time for an employment authorization document is about 80 days. Benefits Will I be able to get a driver’s license? This depends on your state. If you are approved for deferred action, you will receive an employment authorization document (EAD) and a social security number. You can call your state’s department of motor vehicles or visit its website to see what documents they require. Will I be able to pay in-state tuition for college? If you live in a state that offers in-state tuition rates for undocumented immigrants attending public colleges, you will should still be able to get those tuition rates if you have deferred action. These states include Maryland, New York, Texas, New Mexico, California, Utah, Oklahoma, Kansas, Washington, Nebraska, Illinois, Rhode Island, and Connecticut. Colorado just passed a law allowing undocumented residents to pay 150% of in-state tuition. For other states it is less clear if immigrants with deferred action will get in-state rates. It could also vary between schools. We will be looking into this in the coming weeks. Will I be eligible for financial aid? You will not be eligible for federal financial aid. The states of Texas and California offer financial aid without regard to immigration status. For other states the law is less clear. There are also private scholarships that may be available to you – many only require a social security number which you will be able to get if you are granted deferred action. Will I be eligible to join the US military? No. Will I be able to travel outside of the country? TBD.
08.02.2012	[Rep. Doggett’s remarks as delivered follow below] Reviewing this Republican resolution before us, I found much in its findings and purposes with which I fully agree. “The Tax Code is unfair….” “The tax code violates fundamental principles of equal justice….” “Exclusions, deductions, credits, and special rules make up tax expenditures that amount to over $1 trillion per year....” And then I reflected on who has been in charge of this Tax Code for 14 of the last 18 years, and it is the very people who offer us this bill today. And of the other 4 years, in 2 of those, President Bush was “the decider.” So they’ve had ample opportunity to correct these deficiencies in our Tax Code. But the problem is that rarely over the course of the last couple of decades have they mat a lobbyist peddling a loophole to whom they could say “no.” They talk to us about a fast track. Well that would, indeed, be a new track for them because they’ve had almost two decades to put in place a Tax Code that would resolve the problems about which they complain today, and they’ve been inactive through that period. Oh yes, there was a time when Republicans controlled essentially all three branches of the American Government, and they flirted with a flat tax. It had great appeal to the Flat Earth Society that dominates the Republican caucus on most issues, but they couldn’t make it work. Then they said they wanted a Fair Tax, and a fair tax sounded like something all of us could support. The only problem was that it would hike the cost of just about everything we buy—from food to a car to a home—by over 20 percent. And when you really get into the details, it wasn’t all that fair, except to hose at the top who have already benefited so much from the existing Tax Code. So Republicans have been in charge now for another year-and-a-half in this Congress. They’ve had an opportunity to come forward not with a pathway to something they would do after the election but with a specific plan of how they would reform our Tax Code. And instead of that specific plan for this Tax Code that has grown by hundreds, if not thousands, of pages under Republican rule of complexity and with exceptions for those lobbyists who were powerful enough to have their voice heard and acted upon in this Capitol. Instead, they come forward with this flimsy little bill, principles with which most Americans should agree; it’s just the action that counts. And they say, ‘We want to go on a fast track, but we’d rather wait until after the election to start the track.’ Well, haven’t we heard that story before when they were talking “fair,” when they were talking “flat”? Today they’re just talking about what they might do in the future. So we have to look for clues within this flimsy little bill of what, in fact, they would do if they were in the majority with President Romney, heaven forbid. And we got clue number one yesterday when they approved a bill to extend all of the tax breaks that President Bush approved for the very most privileged people in our society. And the effect of what they proposed and the approach they took was that those were sitting comfortably on top of the economic ladder, they would gain. If they were a millionaire, they’d gain by more in their tax breaks than a police officer or a nurse or a small business owner in San Marcos or Schertz or New Braunfels or Lockhart—more than they make in a whole year, these privileged few would get for themselves in lower taxes. But the Marine corporal, the single mom who is trying to get her daughter or son through college, they would actually see their taxes go up under this simplified fast-track Republican approach. So those who are trying to get their toehold, their foothold into the first or second rung of that economic ladder, they end up having to pay for more tax breaks for those at the top. And now today, through this bill, we see that what Mitt Romney was a part of is in exporting jobs abroad, he was really just getting started because what they propose is a “territorial” tax system. What is that? A territorial tax system is when you create jobs in somebody else’s territory. Here’s how it works. Here’s the plan that they’re talking about: you are a manufacturer, and you are trying to decide, where will I create my new plant locate it? I could locate it in San Antonio, Texas. I could locate it in Shanghai. Under their territorial plan, if you locate it in Shanghai, it’s tax free. Guess where the incentive is under their plan to create new jobs? It’s not in Texas. It’s not in America. It’s someplace else. That’s what the territorial tax system is all about. But of course with all the loopholes that their lobbyists have been able to get through the decades, many, many corporations aren’t paying the 35 percent statutory tax rate. Many of our largest corporations, like General Electric, they’re not only paying a lower tax rate than the hardware store in Lockhart or in Austin that’s selling their products, but they’re paying a lower tax rate than the cleaning crew that cleaned up the board room at General Electric. Because they found all these loopholes, we have hundreds of large no-tax corporations that are paying next to nothing in terms of their taxes already. They would simply expand that with great inequity.
08.02.2012	[Rep. Doggett’s remarks as delivered follow below] Reviewing this Republican resolution before us, I found much in its findings and purposes with which I fully agree. “The Tax Code is unfair….” “The tax code violates fundamental principles of equal justice….” “Exclusions, deductions, credits, and special rules make up tax expenditures that amount to over $1 trillion per year....” And then I reflected on who has been in charge of this Tax Code for 14 of the last 18 years, and it is the very people who offer us this bill today. And of the other 4 years, in 2 of those, President Bush was “the decider.” So they’ve had ample opportunity to correct these deficiencies in our Tax Code. But the problem is that rarely over the course of the last couple of decades have they mat a lobbyist peddling a loophole to whom they could say “no.” They talk to us about a fast track. Well that would, indeed, be a new track for them because they’ve had almost two decades to put in place a Tax Code that would resolve the problems about which they complain today, and they’ve been inactive through that period. Oh yes, there was a time when Republicans controlled essentially all three branches of the American Government, and they flirted with a flat tax. It had great appeal to the Flat Earth Society that dominates the Republican caucus on most issues, but they couldn’t make it work. Then they said they wanted a Fair Tax, and a fair tax sounded like something all of us could support. The only problem was that it would hike the cost of just about everything we buy—from food to a car to a home—by over 20 percent. And when you really get into the details, it wasn’t all that fair, except to hose at the top who have already benefited so much from the existing Tax Code. So Republicans have been in charge now for another year-and-a-half in this Congress. They’ve had an opportunity to come forward not with a pathway to something they would do after the election but with a specific plan of how they would reform our Tax Code. And instead of that specific plan for this Tax Code that has grown by hundreds, if not thousands, of pages under Republican rule of complexity and with exceptions for those lobbyists who were powerful enough to have their voice heard and acted upon in this Capitol. Instead, they come forward with this flimsy little bill, principles with which most Americans should agree; it’s just the action that counts. And they say, ‘We want to go on a fast track, but we’d rather wait until after the election to start the track.’ Well, haven’t we heard that story before when they were talking “fair,” when they were talking “flat”? Today they’re just talking about what they might do in the future. So we have to look for clues within this flimsy little bill of what, in fact, they would do if they were in the majority with President Romney, heaven forbid. And we got clue number one yesterday when they approved a bill to extend all of the tax breaks that President Bush approved for the very most privileged people in our society. And the effect of what they proposed and the approach they took was that those were sitting comfortably on top of the economic ladder, they would gain. If they were a millionaire, they’d gain by more in their tax breaks than a police officer or a nurse or a small business owner in San Marcos or Schertz or New Braunfels or Lockhart—more than they make in a whole year, these privileged few would get for themselves in lower taxes. But the Marine corporal, the single mom who is trying to get her daughter or son through college, they would actually see their taxes go up under this simplified fast-track Republican approach. So those who are trying to get their toehold, their foothold into the first or second rung of that economic ladder, they end up having to pay for more tax breaks for those at the top. And now today, through this bill, we see that what Mitt Romney was a part of is in exporting jobs abroad, he was really just getting started because what they propose is a “territorial” tax system. What is that? A territorial tax system is when you create jobs in somebody else’s territory. Here’s how it works. Here’s the plan that they’re talking about: you are a manufacturer, and you are trying to decide, where will I create my new plant locate it? I could locate it in San Antonio, Texas. I could locate it in Shanghai. Under their territorial plan, if you locate it in Shanghai, it’s tax free. Guess where the incentive is under their plan to create new jobs? It’s not in Texas. It’s not in America. It’s someplace else. That’s what the territorial tax system is all about. But of course with all the loopholes that their lobbyists have been able to get through the decades, many, many corporations aren’t paying the 35 percent statutory tax rate. Many of our largest corporations, like General Electric, they’re not only paying a lower tax rate than the hardware store in Lockhart or in Austin that’s selling their products, but they’re paying a lower tax rate than the cleaning crew that cleaned up the board room at General Electric. Because they found all these loopholes, we have hundreds of large no-tax corporations that are paying next to nothing in terms of their taxes already. They would simply expand that with great inequity.
08.01.2012	[Rep. Doggett’s remarks, as delivered, follow below] “Now is not the time to let the Republicans raise taxes on thousands of Texas families in order to provide more tax breaks for a privileged few. Republicans would hike the taxes by almost $500 for a married Marine corporal with four years of service and two children living in Schertz. That is wrong. Nor is this the time for Republicans to tax opportunity. A single mom, working as a nurse, who is helping her daughter attend an Alamo College or Texas State or ACC, would be denied the $2,500 higher education tax credit that I authored. All of this, in the very same bill that would give a Republican who earns a million dollars a tax cut next year that is larger than that Marine or that nurse would earn for an entire year. “If there were an Olympic medal for protecting those sitting atop the economic ladder, at the expense of those trying to get a foothold on the first couple of rungs, these Republicans would go gold without any competition. “Nor has this ‘trickle down’ Republican approach grown our jobs and our economy. Extending tax breaks for those at the very top, it was done in 2010 over my objection. It hasn’t grown jobs in the past year any more than it helped to avoid the Bush-Cheney recession. “As for this much ballyhooed Ernst and Young report, it was bought and paid for by the same millionaires that are going to get the tax break bigger than what the nurse or marine earns all of next year, along with a few large corporations who paid for the report. It is not credible. It is not just to see some Americans have to lose tax breaks in order to help the few gain even more.”
08.01.2012	[Rep. Doggett’s remarks, as delivered, follow below] “Now is not the time to let the Republicans raise taxes on thousands of Texas families in order to provide more tax breaks for a privileged few. Republicans would hike the taxes by almost $500 for a married Marine corporal with four years of service and two children living in Schertz. That is wrong. Nor is this the time for Republicans to tax opportunity. A single mom, working as a nurse, who is helping her daughter attend an Alamo College or Texas State or ACC, would be denied the $2,500 higher education tax credit that I authored. All of this, in the very same bill that would give a Republican who earns a million dollars a tax cut next year that is larger than that Marine or that nurse would earn for an entire year. “If there were an Olympic medal for protecting those sitting atop the economic ladder, at the expense of those trying to get a foothold on the first couple of rungs, these Republicans would go gold without any competition. “Nor has this ‘trickle down’ Republican approach grown our jobs and our economy. Extending tax breaks for those at the very top, it was done in 2010 over my objection. It hasn’t grown jobs in the past year any more than it helped to avoid the Bush-Cheney recession. “As for this much ballyhooed Ernst and Young report, it was bought and paid for by the same millionaires that are going to get the tax break bigger than what the nurse or marine earns all of next year, along with a few large corporations who paid for the report. It is not credible. It is not just to see some Americans have to lose tax breaks in order to help the few gain even more.”
07.24.2012	July 24, 2012 Washington—Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, introduced a bill that would extend the American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC) through 2013 to make college more affordable for millions of families. Without Rep. Doggett’s bill, the AOTC would expire at year’s end. “While rightly concerned with the federal deficit, we must also remain concerned with the ‘opportunity deficit,’ when students cannot develop their God-given potential to the fullest extent,” said Rep. Doggett. “Extending the ‘More Education’ tax cut will continue to close this gap, allowing more students to achieve all the education for which they are willing to work.” The American Opportunity Tax Credit, authored by Rep. Doggett, was enacted as part of the 2009 Recovery Act and has provided billions of dollars to working families and students seeking more education after high school. The tax credit provides up to $2,500 of the cost of tuition and related expenses paid during the taxable year. Forty percent of the tax credit—up to $1,000—would be refundable, meaning that families who need help the most will benefit from the credit. Also, for the first time since higher education tax credits were created, this tax cut expands the definition of a “qualified education expense” to include textbooks, making them more affordable for students. According to a report by the Treasury Department, the AOTC has significantly expanded aid nationwide to the 12.5 million students who took advantage of the program in 2009. In Texas, 671,000 students and families received over $1.1 billion. The AOTC was designed to replace and improve upon existing education tax benefits so that more students and their families could receive college tuition assistance and that assistance would be larger. It has accomplished this goal which is why the President has called on Congress to make the AOTC permanent, but at a minimum the credit should be extended for another year. “As college costs rise, much work remains to be done to increase accessibility and affordability for students seeking more higher education. With the enactment of the AOTC we have made strides in the right direction over the past three years by making one of largest investments in college aid in our history. We cannot afford to decrease our investment in education or increase taxes on hard working American families that are looking to get ahead,” said Rep. Doggett.
07.13.2012	July 12, 2012 Washington—Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett spoke about the new Texas Voter ID law and the current trial to determine its constitutionality.
07.13.2012	July 12, 2012 Washington—Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett accepted the Defender of Children Award from the First Focus Campaign for Children that works to improve the lives of children all across the U.S.
07.12.2012	July 12, 2012 Washington—Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett spoke with the Texas Tribune about the Republican Health Care Repeal Vote.
07.12.2012	[Rep. Doggett’s full remarks, as delivered, follow below]“I have lived through a terminal illness while struggling to get well and struggling to get and keep my insurance. I’ve been denied health insurance because of a pre-existing condition. I have lived this. It is very real for me. Today I breathe a little better—life is good because now I have hope.” That was the reaction of my constituent, Erin Foster, to the approval of the Affordable Care Act by the Supreme Court. And today’s legislation ought to be called the “Take Away Erin Foster’s Hope Act” because that’s what it is, replacing the Affordable Care Act with only tax breaks for Tylenol. In a few days, thousands of Texans will be receiving checks of almost $200 each, almost $200 million in rebates from private insurance companies that overcharged and abused them. This bill should be called the “Return to Sender Act” because it says those abusive health insurance companies get their money back if this act became law. There are seniors today who are trying to make use of the flawed Republican prescription drug act that is now law. They left a giant gap, sometimes referred to as a donut hole, in the coverage of that act. Our seniors, as a result of the Affordable Care Act, have seen their prescription costs go down and some of that donut hole plugged—eventually, we’ll fill it and provide them the protection that they have earned. This bill, if enacted, would double the cost of prescription drugs for those in the donut hole, about 2.25 million Texas seniors would also no longer receive free preventive services. This act should be called the “Charge Seniors More for Their Prescription Act” because that’s what it does. You see, the problem is that in their near fanatic determination to see President Obama fail on everything, Erin Foster, that senior, and that individual who is counting on one of those rebate checks, they are just collateral damage to these Republicans.
07.12.2012	[Rep. Doggett’s full remarks, as delivered, follow below]“I have lived through a terminal illness while struggling to get well and struggling to get and keep my insurance. I’ve been denied health insurance because of a pre-existing condition. I have lived this. It is very real for me. Today I breathe a little better—life is good because now I have hope.” That was the reaction of my constituent, Erin Foster, to the approval of the Affordable Care Act by the Supreme Court. And today’s legislation ought to be called the “Take Away Erin Foster’s Hope Act” because that’s what it is, replacing the Affordable Care Act with only tax breaks for Tylenol. In a few days, thousands of Texans will be receiving checks of almost $200 each, almost $200 million in rebates from private insurance companies that overcharged and abused them. This bill should be called the “Return to Sender Act” because it says those abusive health insurance companies get their money back if this act became law. There are seniors today who are trying to make use of the flawed Republican prescription drug act that is now law. They left a giant gap, sometimes referred to as a donut hole, in the coverage of that act. Our seniors, as a result of the Affordable Care Act, have seen their prescription costs go down and some of that donut hole plugged—eventually, we’ll fill it and provide them the protection that they have earned. This bill, if enacted, would double the cost of prescription drugs for those in the donut hole, about 2.25 million Texas seniors would also no longer receive free preventive services. This act should be called the “Charge Seniors More for Their Prescription Act” because that’s what it does. You see, the problem is that in their near fanatic determination to see President Obama fail on everything, Erin Foster, that senior, and that individual who is counting on one of those rebate checks, they are just collateral damage to these Republicans.
07.10.2012	[Rep. Doggett’s full remarks, as delivered, follow below] Rep. Doggett: Ms. Severino (Carrie Severino, Chief Counsel, Policy Director, Judicial Crisis Network), do you have health insurance yourself? Ms. Severino: Yes, I do Rep. Doggett: Mr. Casey (Lee A. Casey, Partner, Baker Hostetler), are you covered by a group health insurance policy? Mr. Casey: Yes, I am. Rep. Doggett: Mr. Bradbury (Steven G. Bradbury, Partner, Dechert LLP), are you also covered by group health insurance? Mr. Bradbury: Yes, sir. Rep. Doggett: I’d like to put a chart up and ask Mr. Dellinger (Walter Dellinger, Partner, O’Melveny & Myers LLP), are you covered by health insurance, sir? Mr. Dellinger: Mr. Doggett, I am eligible for Medicare, thank you. Rep. Doggett: I am impressed by that, as I am by all of your testimony. You really made the point of this chart, but I wanted to demonstrate it graphically, because all three of the experts who’ve offered insight this morning—some at the request of our Republican colleagues—are in the same situation as 98.8 percent of the American people in that they will not have to pay the tax of which they complain. You’ve just pointed out again a really big segment of our population, Mr. Dellinger, who like yourself, there is not a single person who is on Medicare or about to come on Medicare by the time that this Act becomes fully effective who would be subject to this tax, right? Mr. Dellinger: That is correct. Rep. Doggett: And anyone who is covered by group health insurance policy, whether through a public or private employer, they won’t be affected by this tax? Mr. Dellinger: I’ve always been struck by the notion that this relatively modest incentive to have insurance coverage was seen as the end of liberty as we know it. If you go to work in the economy and you earn $18,000 a year and are subject to federal income taxes and FICA taxes, you’re told you have to pay 7.5 percent to Social Security for your old age sustenance, you’re told you have another percentage to pay for Medicare for your health care after 65, and if you don’t have insurance coverage, you’re going to have to pay up to 2.5 percent as an additional sum to be paid… why would anybody look at that and say, “Well the 7.5 percent for Social Security is fine, the percentage for Medicare is fine, but this last percentage I would have to pay is the end of liberty as we know it and I would have to move to another country.” Rep. Doggett: Mr. Dellinger, your point is so significant and you have made it previously that while the names may have changed on the groups, the same crowd, the same thinking that opposed Social Security, that opposed Medicare is the same crowd that is out there opposing the Affordable Healthcare Act, even though less than 2 percent of the American people would be directly affected by what Justice Roberts, President Bush’s appointee to the Supreme Court, said was a tax rather than a penalty. Now, with reference to that tax, I understand Mr. Bradbury’s testimony to be that even for the less than 2 percent of the people that are covered, the tax is so low, so modest that Congress may choose to raise it in the future. From your testimony, I believe that in the first year, $95 is the total amount you would pay if you are among the approximately 2 percent who choose not to buy insurance even though you have the capacity to afford it yet prefer to shift your health care costs to somebody else. Mr. Dellinger: That is correct. Rep. Doggett: And with reference to the estimate of this 1.2 percent [who would pay the tax], that was done by the independent Congressional Budget Office on the final bill as it became law after it passed the Senate, so perhaps it goes up or goes down a little bit… it is only an estimate, but it is a very small number of people who are affected.
07.10.2012	[Rep. Doggett’s full remarks, as delivered, follow below] Rep. Doggett: Ms. Severino (Carrie Severino, Chief Counsel, Policy Director, Judicial Crisis Network), do you have health insurance yourself? Ms. Severino: Yes, I do Rep. Doggett: Mr. Casey (Lee A. Casey, Partner, Baker Hostetler), are you covered by a group health insurance policy? Mr. Casey: Yes, I am. Rep. Doggett: Mr. Bradbury (Steven G. Bradbury, Partner, Dechert LLP), are you also covered by group health insurance? Mr. Bradbury: Yes, sir. Rep. Doggett: I’d like to put a chart up and ask Mr. Dellinger (Walter Dellinger, Partner, O’Melveny & Myers LLP), are you covered by health insurance, sir? Mr. Dellinger: Mr. Doggett, I am eligible for Medicare, thank you. Rep. Doggett: I am impressed by that, as I am by all of your testimony. You really made the point of this chart, but I wanted to demonstrate it graphically, because all three of the experts who’ve offered insight this morning—some at the request of our Republican colleagues—are in the same situation as 98.8 percent of the American people in that they will not have to pay the tax of which they complain. You’ve just pointed out again a really big segment of our population, Mr. Dellinger, who like yourself, there is not a single person who is on Medicare or about to come on Medicare by the time that this Act becomes fully effective who would be subject to this tax, right? Mr. Dellinger: That is correct. Rep. Doggett: And anyone who is covered by group health insurance policy, whether through a public or private employer, they won’t be affected by this tax? Mr. Dellinger: I’ve always been struck by the notion that this relatively modest incentive to have insurance coverage was seen as the end of liberty as we know it. If you go to work in the economy and you earn $18,000 a year and are subject to federal income taxes and FICA taxes, you’re told you have to pay 7.5 percent to Social Security for your old age sustenance, you’re told you have another percentage to pay for Medicare for your health care after 65, and if you don’t have insurance coverage, you’re going to have to pay up to 2.5 percent as an additional sum to be paid… why would anybody look at that and say, “Well the 7.5 percent for Social Security is fine, the percentage for Medicare is fine, but this last percentage I would have to pay is the end of liberty as we know it and I would have to move to another country.” Rep. Doggett: Mr. Dellinger, your point is so significant and you have made it previously that while the names may have changed on the groups, the same crowd, the same thinking that opposed Social Security, that opposed Medicare is the same crowd that is out there opposing the Affordable Healthcare Act, even though less than 2 percent of the American people would be directly affected by what Justice Roberts, President Bush’s appointee to the Supreme Court, said was a tax rather than a penalty. Now, with reference to that tax, I understand Mr. Bradbury’s testimony to be that even for the less than 2 percent of the people that are covered, the tax is so low, so modest that Congress may choose to raise it in the future. From your testimony, I believe that in the first year, $95 is the total amount you would pay if you are among the approximately 2 percent who choose not to buy insurance even though you have the capacity to afford it yet prefer to shift your health care costs to somebody else. Mr. Dellinger: That is correct. Rep. Doggett: And with reference to the estimate of this 1.2 percent [who would pay the tax], that was done by the independent Congressional Budget Office on the final bill as it became law after it passed the Senate, so perhaps it goes up or goes down a little bit… it is only an estimate, but it is a very small number of people who are affected.
06.28.2012	June 28, 2012 Washington-- Outside the Supreme Court of the United States today, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, gave the following video statement on the Supreme Court's decision upholding the Affordable Care Act and the significant victory it represents for families, seniors, and small businesses:
06.27.2012	[Remarks as delivered follow below] Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Certainly if we can perfect our tax system so that it does more to reward work, we should do it. And, if we can ferret out any abuse of existing preferences or tax credits that are not being properly used in accordance with the law, we should do that and we should take corrective steps. But I must say respectfully that it is my belief that the focus of this hearing and the focus of the overall work this year and last year of the Ways and Means Committee in this area is misdirected. Let’s look at the facts: The richest 1/5 of Americans are reported to own 84 percent of the wealth of this country. While the bottom 40 percent are estimated to own about 3 or 4 percent of the wealth of this country. The Congressional Budget Office reports that over the last three decades after tax income for the top 1 percent soared by 277 percent, while 2/3 of the income gains from 2002-2007 flowed to the top 1 percent of households. The focus of this hearing is not on the 1,500 millionaires who paid zero income tax in a recent year. It is not on those corporations who not only paid zero, such as in some years General Electric, Boeing, Wells Fargo, and in some cases, actually received money back in credits from the government. It is not on the area where revenues are not flowing to our government. It is not about those at the top. It is all focused on whether those who have an ownership interest in 3 percent or less of our nation’s wealth—whether they are getting too much. The overall concept of this hearing seems to follow closely the report last year of the House Republican Study Committee concerning the disincentives of our current system. This is the same group and same set of reports that condemned as welfare— and seemed to call for reductions in— Pell Grants, Title I grants to disadvantaged schools, Head Start, the School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program. I believe that is a mischaracterization of those important initiatives that help those who are struggling to become part of the middle class and to share in the American dream, to help them advance. It is wrong to continue to deny those opportunities.When a mother with a couple of children who lives in Austin or San Marcos or San Antonio leaves the Welfare program for a full-time, minimum wage job, the Earned Income tax credit and the Child tax credit are available to help her and other working families—it increases the value of her work in a significant way and is an incentive to advance. During the same period of time through the recent recession, there were reports by the PEW Research Center that Hispanics particularly represented the hardest hit by the recession—a 66 percent drop in wealth from 2005-2009, a widening of the gap in our country that has not been seen in the last quarter-of-a-century during the time that data was collected. These are serious problems that need to be addressed to encourage and help people move into the middle class and to see that our nation has the revenues that it needs in order to sustain those programs. We need more focus on those real problems rather than on the small issue that is raised by today’s hearing.
06.27.2012	[Remarks as delivered follow below] Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Certainly if we can perfect our tax system so that it does more to reward work, we should do it. And, if we can ferret out any abuse of existing preferences or tax credits that are not being properly used in accordance with the law, we should do that and we should take corrective steps. But I must say respectfully that it is my belief that the focus of this hearing and the focus of the overall work this year and last year of the Ways and Means Committee in this area is misdirected. Let’s look at the facts: The richest 1/5 of Americans are reported to own 84 percent of the wealth of this country. While the bottom 40 percent are estimated to own about 3 or 4 percent of the wealth of this country. The Congressional Budget Office reports that over the last three decades after tax income for the top 1 percent soared by 277 percent, while 2/3 of the income gains from 2002-2007 flowed to the top 1 percent of households. The focus of this hearing is not on the 1,500 millionaires who paid zero income tax in a recent year. It is not on those corporations who not only paid zero, such as in some years General Electric, Boeing, Wells Fargo, and in some cases, actually received money back in credits from the government. It is not on the area where revenues are not flowing to our government. It is not about those at the top. It is all focused on whether those who have an ownership interest in 3 percent or less of our nation’s wealth—whether they are getting too much. The overall concept of this hearing seems to follow closely the report last year of the House Republican Study Committee concerning the disincentives of our current system. This is the same group and same set of reports that condemned as welfare— and seemed to call for reductions in— Pell Grants, Title I grants to disadvantaged schools, Head Start, the School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program. I believe that is a mischaracterization of those important initiatives that help those who are struggling to become part of the middle class and to share in the American dream, to help them advance. It is wrong to continue to deny those opportunities.When a mother with a couple of children who lives in Austin or San Marcos or San Antonio leaves the Welfare program for a full-time, minimum wage job, the Earned Income tax credit and the Child tax credit are available to help her and other working families—it increases the value of her work in a significant way and is an incentive to advance. During the same period of time through the recent recession, there were reports by the PEW Research Center that Hispanics particularly represented the hardest hit by the recession—a 66 percent drop in wealth from 2005-2009, a widening of the gap in our country that has not been seen in the last quarter-of-a-century during the time that data was collected. These are serious problems that need to be addressed to encourage and help people move into the middle class and to see that our nation has the revenues that it needs in order to sustain those programs. We need more focus on those real problems rather than on the small issue that is raised by today’s hearing.
06.26.2012	The Supreme Court struck down several provisions of Arizona's controversial immigration law Monday, however police will be allowed to ask suspects to prove their immigration status if they look like they could be illegal immigrants. Justices said the "show me your papers" provision could still be subject to additional legal challenges. However, their ruling won’t be felt in Texas for several months. “The Court’s decision should be viewed narrowly,” Rep. Lloyd Doggett of Texas said. “The states retain the right to ask people about their immigration status is about all that it said." Rep. Doggett says Monday's decision only further invites Congress to act fast on comprehensive immigration reform. It’s a power that Doggett and many Democrats, including the Obama administration, feel should stay in Washington. “I believe that those Texas legislators ought to get about addressing the real problems in our state [education] and leave comprehensive immigration reform to the federal government. That’s largely the thrust of today’s court decision,” Rep. Doggett said. Texas Republicans see the court's decision to uphold that single provision as a victory for states' rights. Gov. Rick Perry issued a statement saying, “No state should be held hostage to a federal government that refuses to enforce the laws of the land.” Travis County Sheriff Greg Hamilton issued a statement Monday afternoon outlining his department’s policy since 2008, which states no one will be stopped, questioned, detained or arrested solely on the ground that they may be undocumented and deportable foreign nationals. That policy will not be affected by Monday’s ruling. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
06.25.2012	June 25, 2012 Washington-- Today, following the Supreme Court’s reversal of Montana’s campaign finance decision, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a former Texas Supreme Court Justice, issued the following statement: “While most of this week’s focus at the Supreme Court is appropriately upon immigration and health reform, this Montana ruling means that more and more secret corporate money can continue to pollute our democracy. Special interests, like those which have obstructed affordable health care, are reauthorized to dump unlimited, hidden monies to slant this year’s elections and to thwart the public interest. Limiting this onslaught will be a difficult, prolonged struggle that may require a constitutional amendment.”
06.25.2012	June 25, 2012 Washington-- Today, following the Supreme Court’s decision on the constitutionality of Arizona’s immigration law, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a former Texas Supreme Court Justice, issued the following statement: “The Court rightly rejected 3/4th of the Arizona law as unconstitutional, while reserving the right to reconsider implementation of the remaining provision. That remaining “show me your papers” rule is very troubling. Its implementation should be reevaluated because of racial profiling. Today’s decision only underlines the need for prompt, comprehensive immigration reform--write the DREAM Act into law for youth and let those immigrants, who have been longstanding, law abiding, tax paying residents, pay a penalty and get in line to become citizens.“Even Rick Perry said the Arizona law was not right for Texas. Thankfully the Court said it was wrong for America.” THE FOUR PROVISIONS ADDRESSED TODAY: Unconstitutional Section 3: Makes it a state crime for any person to violate provisions of the federal immigration law requiring registration and the carrying of registration documents. These actions are civil, not criminal, violations under federal law.Unconstitutional Section 5(C): Makes it a state crime for an immigrant who is unlawfully present and not authorized to work in the United States to apply for work, solicit work in a public place, or perform work within the state. This goes beyond federal law by criminalizing employment or the attempt to work by unauthorized individuals. Federal law punishes employers for knowingly hiring undocumented workers. Unconstitutional Section 6: Authorizes police officers to arrest an individual without a warrant where the officers have probable cause to believe that the individual has committed an offense that makes him or her deportable.UPHELD, subject to reviewing how implemented: Section 2(B): Requires state and local police to attempt to determine the immigration status of any person lawfully stopped, detained, or arrested whenever there is a “reasonable suspicion” that the person is unlawfully present, and verify that status with the federal government.
06.20.2012	“I believe, for a number of years, that we needed to move forward with Russia entering the WTO and with the repeal of Jackson-Vanik but I fully subscribe to the comments and issues that have been raised by ranking Member Levin as an excellent statement of where we are today. Indeed, as Ambassador Kirk just testified, the timing could not be worse for consideration of this matter.“We know that over the course of the last year, the Russians have harassed and libeled our very excellent Ambassador, Ambassador McFaul to Russia. We know they had a very questionable election, that this very month the Russian Duma approved legislation to raise the fine on anyone who participates in an unauthorized protest from $60 dollars to $9,000 dollars – for just showing up at a protest. We know that the Russian’s main interest of in trade, of late, appears to have been forwarding weapons to the Assad government in Syria to murder its own people including, as the Secretary of State recently observed, sending the attack helicopters that we see on television each night to murder innocent women and children in Syria. Even the Washington Post editorial board, which I believe has been a cheerleader of every trade agreement that Ambassador Kirk, or any of his predecessors in any administration have every advanced here, says that a bill that grants Russia trade preferences and removes human rights conditions hardly seems the right response to Mr. Putin’s recent behavior. The Magnitsky case is not about one of the many courageous human rights protestors in Russia. It is directly linked to trade. It involves an attorney who found that, in one of the largest investment funds in Russia, that the kleptocracy there, the Interior Ministry and the Police, stole $230 million dollars. It is important not only from a human rights standpoint, but it is important from a commerce and trade standpoint and why it should be involved in this case. “Now you both told us in your testimony that the opponents of the Putin regime are in favor of lifting Jackson-Vanik, but that is only half the story, and it’s only half the story from a number of months back. I am sure you recall the op-ed that appeared from Boris Nemtsov in the Wall Street Journal back in March, and let me just quote from it because I think it is [an] important part of the story that has not been told this morning: ‘Jackson-Vanik is a relic and its time has passed, but allowing it to disappear with nothing in its place and right on the heels of the fantastically corrupt elections of March the 4th, turns it into little more than a gift to Mr. Putin. Replacing Jackson-Vanik with the Magnitsky bill would promote better relations between the people of the United States and Russia, while refusing to provide aid and comfort to a tyrant and his regime at this critical moment in history.’ “That is a more-full and complete statement of what the opposition has said than what we’ve heard this morning. I believe that, Ambassador Kirk, you’re sincere in saying that you care about human rights, as we all do, in Russia. The question is whether we’re going to do anything about it. Senator Baucus has made it clear that the Magnitsky bill, some form of it, will be joined to this trade agreement. Senator McCain has been quoted this morning as saying that anything less than the full Magnitsky bill attached to this measure will doom it to failure. Putting aside, as is difficult to put aside, the problems in Syria which raise real questions about whether we should act immediately on this, at a minimum, I believe Senator McCain is right and that the Magnitsky bill without all the ‘ifs’, ‘ands’ and ‘ors’, that are designed to make it meaningless and let the Administration waive or postpone or delay or circumvent its requirements. If you want this measure passed, just simply, do what has been proposed in the Senate and incorporate the Magnitsky bill with this measure and we can move forward on it. Though I often disagree with Mr. Brady on these matters, I agree fully with his comments as quoted in today’s Congressional Quarterly, that it is the will of the Senate or the House that this be incorporated that that’s what will need to be done. Well, it is the will of at least this Member, and I think of a number of others, that we not, at this critical time in our relations with Russia, forget about these other issues. They can be combined and we can and should move forward with a full and complete response to the outrage that is happening there.”
06.20.2012	“I believe, for a number of years, that we needed to move forward with Russia entering the WTO and with the repeal of Jackson-Vanik but I fully subscribe to the comments and issues that have been raised by ranking Member Levin as an excellent statement of where we are today. Indeed, as Ambassador Kirk just testified, the timing could not be worse for consideration of this matter.“We know that over the course of the last year, the Russians have harassed and libeled our very excellent Ambassador, Ambassador McFaul to Russia. We know they had a very questionable election, that this very month the Russian Duma approved legislation to raise the fine on anyone who participates in an unauthorized protest from $60 dollars to $9,000 dollars – for just showing up at a protest. We know that the Russian’s main interest of in trade, of late, appears to have been forwarding weapons to the Assad government in Syria to murder its own people including, as the Secretary of State recently observed, sending the attack helicopters that we see on television each night to murder innocent women and children in Syria. Even the Washington Post editorial board, which I believe has been a cheerleader of every trade agreement that Ambassador Kirk, or any of his predecessors in any administration have every advanced here, says that a bill that grants Russia trade preferences and removes human rights conditions hardly seems the right response to Mr. Putin’s recent behavior. The Magnitsky case is not about one of the many courageous human rights protestors in Russia. It is directly linked to trade. It involves an attorney who found that, in one of the largest investment funds in Russia, that the kleptocracy there, the Interior Ministry and the Police, stole $230 million dollars. It is important not only from a human rights standpoint, but it is important from a commerce and trade standpoint and why it should be involved in this case. “Now you both told us in your testimony that the opponents of the Putin regime are in favor of lifting Jackson-Vanik, but that is only half the story, and it’s only half the story from a number of months back. I am sure you recall the op-ed that appeared from Boris Nemtsov in the Wall Street Journal back in March, and let me just quote from it because I think it is [an] important part of the story that has not been told this morning: ‘Jackson-Vanik is a relic and its time has passed, but allowing it to disappear with nothing in its place and right on the heels of the fantastically corrupt elections of March the 4th, turns it into little more than a gift to Mr. Putin. Replacing Jackson-Vanik with the Magnitsky bill would promote better relations between the people of the United States and Russia, while refusing to provide aid and comfort to a tyrant and his regime at this critical moment in history.’ “That is a more-full and complete statement of what the opposition has said than what we’ve heard this morning. I believe that, Ambassador Kirk, you’re sincere in saying that you care about human rights, as we all do, in Russia. The question is whether we’re going to do anything about it. Senator Baucus has made it clear that the Magnitsky bill, some form of it, will be joined to this trade agreement. Senator McCain has been quoted this morning as saying that anything less than the full Magnitsky bill attached to this measure will doom it to failure. Putting aside, as is difficult to put aside, the problems in Syria which raise real questions about whether we should act immediately on this, at a minimum, I believe Senator McCain is right and that the Magnitsky bill without all the ‘ifs’, ‘ands’ and ‘ors’, that are designed to make it meaningless and let the Administration waive or postpone or delay or circumvent its requirements. If you want this measure passed, just simply, do what has been proposed in the Senate and incorporate the Magnitsky bill with this measure and we can move forward on it. Though I often disagree with Mr. Brady on these matters, I agree fully with his comments as quoted in today’s Congressional Quarterly, that it is the will of the Senate or the House that this be incorporated that that’s what will need to be done. Well, it is the will of at least this Member, and I think of a number of others, that we not, at this critical time in our relations with Russia, forget about these other issues. They can be combined and we can and should move forward with a full and complete response to the outrage that is happening there.”
06.20.2012	U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett is criticizing a House committee vote to hold U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt, for his refusal to hand over documents related to the 'Fast and Furious' operation. He released this statement today: “Families along I-35 have plenty of contempt for Congress unresponsive because of politically-motivated distractions like today’s contempt vote. While any executive privilege should be construed narrowly, this Committee went too fast and folks have reason to be furious that this Republican Congress is ignoring real concerns, like greater economic opportunity, more affordable healthcare, and stronger public education.”Our Washington D.C. bureau spoke with Doggett as well as Rep. Blake Farenthold, who was on the House committee that recommended the contempt charges. We'll hear from both Congressmen on YNN, later this evening.
06.19.2012	The full text of Rep. Doggett's remarks follow below: I rise to focus attention upon one of today’s provisions— perhaps a few rose petals hidden in the thicket of unnecessary and painful thorns that constitute this legislation. Recently nominated as a World Heritage Site, the Spanish missions of San Antonio are a unique treasure for parishioners, tourists, and Texans everywhere. In 2010, our able, former colleague Ciro Rodriquez, introduced legislation both to expand the San Antonio Missions National Historical Park by about 151 acres and to require a study by the Secretary of the Interior regarding an even larger expansion of the park. In 2010, the House approved this Rodriquez bill. Though a companion measure was introduced by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, the Senate failed to act upon the Rodriquez bill. During this Congress, I am one of five Members joining Rep. Canseco in reintroducing the Rodriquez bill. Instead of reapproving our bipartisan measure, the Resources Committee has merged only a very limited portion of it into a totally unrelated bill that is little more than a giant giveaway and exploitation of public property and which will endanger irreplaceable, natural resources from seashore in North Carolina to wilderness in Alaska. While Senator Hutchison has already secured approval by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee of a complete San Antonio Missions bill, today’s measure includes little of the protection our missions deserve. Now any purchase of additional land for the park is prohibited, and even a mere study of the possibility of additional park expansion is denied. Now the only way that the park can be expanded is if a private or public owner donates land to it. In other words, it makes future park expansion dependent entirely upon charity. No matter how public-minded they may be, some private owners will be unable to give their land to the park.Instead of continuing the previous, bipartisan commitment to the Missions, this bill reflects the same ideological extremes so evident in our larger policy debates like that over the future of our national transportation system—our House Republican colleagues are all for good transportation; it is just paying for that transportation they are opposed to. So today we hear about private property rights— but what about the private property right of an individual land owner to sell his property for a legitimate public purpose such as expanding this vital national park? That is denied in today’s bill. This bill will not grow the park in the way necessary to fully enhance the missions that are so significant to San Antonio and to this nation’s culture and history. The better approach is to follow Senator Hutchison’s lead and to approve a freestanding, bipartisan bill that provides these missions the complete support that they deserve.
06.19.2012	The full text of Rep. Doggett's remarks follow below: I rise to focus attention upon one of today’s provisions— perhaps a few rose petals hidden in the thicket of unnecessary and painful thorns that constitute this legislation. Recently nominated as a World Heritage Site, the Spanish missions of San Antonio are a unique treasure for parishioners, tourists, and Texans everywhere. In 2010, our able, former colleague Ciro Rodriquez, introduced legislation both to expand the San Antonio Missions National Historical Park by about 151 acres and to require a study by the Secretary of the Interior regarding an even larger expansion of the park. In 2010, the House approved this Rodriquez bill. Though a companion measure was introduced by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, the Senate failed to act upon the Rodriquez bill. During this Congress, I am one of five Members joining Rep. Canseco in reintroducing the Rodriquez bill. Instead of reapproving our bipartisan measure, the Resources Committee has merged only a very limited portion of it into a totally unrelated bill that is little more than a giant giveaway and exploitation of public property and which will endanger irreplaceable, natural resources from seashore in North Carolina to wilderness in Alaska. While Senator Hutchison has already secured approval by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee of a complete San Antonio Missions bill, today’s measure includes little of the protection our missions deserve. Now any purchase of additional land for the park is prohibited, and even a mere study of the possibility of additional park expansion is denied. Now the only way that the park can be expanded is if a private or public owner donates land to it. In other words, it makes future park expansion dependent entirely upon charity. No matter how public-minded they may be, some private owners will be unable to give their land to the park.Instead of continuing the previous, bipartisan commitment to the Missions, this bill reflects the same ideological extremes so evident in our larger policy debates like that over the future of our national transportation system—our House Republican colleagues are all for good transportation; it is just paying for that transportation they are opposed to. So today we hear about private property rights— but what about the private property right of an individual land owner to sell his property for a legitimate public purpose such as expanding this vital national park? That is denied in today’s bill. This bill will not grow the park in the way necessary to fully enhance the missions that are so significant to San Antonio and to this nation’s culture and history. The better approach is to follow Senator Hutchison’s lead and to approve a freestanding, bipartisan bill that provides these missions the complete support that they deserve.
06.19.2012	A provision to better showcase architectural and cultural gems of San Antonio was caught up in partisan wrangling Tuesday when the House passed a federal lands bill. Legislative language to expand San Antonio Missions National Historical Park was included in a contentious bill that sparked Democratic opposition over arctic oil drilling and lifting sea bird protections in North Carolina. The bill also would allow federal law enforcement to circumvent environmental laws in federal parks along the U.S.-Mexico border, like Big Bend National Park, which along with the San Antonio Missions are the top tourist destinations in Texas. It passed largely along party lines, 232 to 188. Rep. Francisco “Quico” Canseco, R-San Antonio, said the Missions expansion language was “critical to protecting the park and allowing it to continue thriving.” “The boundary expansion is also a critical part of the redevelopment taking place on the South Side of San Antonio,” said Canseco, sponsor of the language. But South Texas Democratic lawmakers who originally supported the Canseco language voted against the bill because of changes. “Now, any purchase of additional land for the park is prohibited,, and even a mere study of the possibility of additional park expansion is denied,” said Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin. Doggett, Rep. Charlie Gonzalez, D-San Antonio, and Rep. Henry Cuellar, D-Laredo, also were co-sponsors of Canseco’s original language but voted against the bill. White House officials said President Barack Obama also is opposed to the federal lands bill because of measures that include oil drilling and natural habitat protection. As it stands, the House bill would allow the San Antonio Missions park to expand with lands donated largely by other government entities. A similar bill sponsored by Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas, was passed by the Senate Energy and National Resources Committee. She is working to bring the bill to the Senate floor for a vote. Differences in the legislation would be ironed out in a House-Senate conference committee. Doggett said he supports the bipartisan language proposed by Hutchison in the Senate. The 151 acres in parcels for expansion of the Missions park in the House bill would be donated by the San Antonio River Authority, Bexar County and the city of San Antonio. Last month, volunteers from Los Compadres, a volunteer group that supports the park, urged the House to pass the expansion bill. The National Park Service also supports the expansion. Supporters of the expansion said it compliments improvements along the San Antonio River, which connects the South Side of San Antonio to more affluent sections of the city north of downtown. Update: Here’s a statement issued by Rep. Charlie Gonzalez on the impasse: “Modern San Antonio owes much of its legacy to the steadfast presence of the Missions. They remain an enduring reminder of the resilience of a community and its people. That is why I was proud to join a bipartisan group of my colleagues to support legislation that would have expanded and improved the Missions Parks. “Unfortunately, the original, commonsense Missions bill sponsored by Rep. Canseco was dramatically altered by a non-Texas Representative and rolled into a controversial public lands package before it was brought up for a vote in the House of Representatives. “While I had reservations with the larger public lands package, my vote against the new Missions bill was due to the alterations that now fail to provide the park with the proper tools it needs to grow. Under this altered version, the purchase of additional land for the Missions and any park expansion study are prohibited. These counterproductive measures would jeopardize future growth of the Missions by forcing the park to rely solely on donated land and prevent proper future planning. “Thankfully, Senator Kay Bailey Hutchinson is sponsoring a bill in the Senate that would adhere to the original vision of the House bill. I look forward to working with the Senator and my House colleagues to continue to fight for improved legislation that will expand and protect the natural and cultural resources that have been critical to the development of our community and our identity.”
06.07.2012	Rep. Doggett’s remarks, as delivered, follow below: “Well Mr. Speaker, our long wait is over. A year and a half after their move to repeal the Affordable Healthcare Act, the Republicans are back with the ‘replace’ part of their ‘repeal and replace’ slogan. And rather than offering an answer to comprehensive healthcare for thirty million more Americans who need it, all they have to offer today is a tax break for Tylenol. Well I’ll tell you, healthcare in this country is more than a two-Tylenol headache and it needs a more comprehensive response. “Of course, the real purpose of their action today is just this week’s attempt to wreck the Affordable Healthcare Act and to protect health insurance monopolies. Some of these are the very same health insurers that demand more than twenty cents of every dollar for their overhead. Twenty cents… ten times the administrative cost of the Medicare system. But our Republican colleagues never let reality get in the way of ideology. When they question most any government initiative that is called ‘public’ as in ‘public education’ or ‘social’ as in ‘Social Security’ as usual they continue to demand legislation that offers more comfort for the comfortable while actually increasing the number of uninsured by 350,000. Understand that if this legislation becomes law, instead of decreasing the number of uninsured American families, we’ll have 350,000 more Americans that don’t have health insurance. That’s their plan. “Our country continues to face a real healthcare crisis. Too many small businesses and individuals are paying too much for too little healthcare. Millions of families are just one accident on the way home from work this evening, or one illness, one child with a disability away from facing personal bankruptcy. That has not changed. “The Affordable Healthcare Act, I believe, is too weak. It should be much stronger. But it is so much better than the system we find ourselves in today with so many lacking so much, and it’s far superior to the Republican do-little or do-next-to-nothing approach – giving the American people half of a life-preserver, which is their approach. “As always, when there is a need for public action, whether it is building a better bridge or more bridges, or providing an opportunity for more young Americans to get a college education, or healthcare be it affordable preventive care, school-based care, long-term care, the Republican answer is always the same: no, no. And their excuse is always the same, too: ‘the deficit made me do it. I’d like to do something about long-term care but we just can’t afford to do it.’ “What a contrast when it comes to bills like today. Whenever it is about depleting the Treasury’s ability to fund those affordable needs for our country, they don’t worry too much about the deficit. $46 billion dollars earlier in the year… this is part of a package almost $42 billion dollars of additional revenue depletion. Later in the summer, we’re told that they’ll come up with $4 trillion dollars of Bush tax-cut extensions. What this will ultimately lead to, if we pursue the irresponsible path of which this is just another step, is that vital public programs that work, Medicare and Social Security, cannot be sustained. They cannot be financed, there is no free lunch to retirement and health security in this country. It requires that we invest in a responsible way, and that’s what the Affordable Healthcare Act does. Reject this legislation today which will undermine it and set us back in our efforts to provide healthcare security to millions of American families.” ###
06.07.2012	Rep. Doggett’s remarks, as delivered, follow below: “Well Mr. Speaker, our long wait is over. A year and a half after their move to repeal the Affordable Healthcare Act, the Republicans are back with the ‘replace’ part of their ‘repeal and replace’ slogan. And rather than offering an answer to comprehensive healthcare for thirty million more Americans who need it, all they have to offer today is a tax break for Tylenol. Well I’ll tell you, healthcare in this country is more than a two-Tylenol headache and it needs a more comprehensive response. “Of course, the real purpose of their action today is just this week’s attempt to wreck the Affordable Healthcare Act and to protect health insurance monopolies. Some of these are the very same health insurers that demand more than twenty cents of every dollar for their overhead. Twenty cents… ten times the administrative cost of the Medicare system. But our Republican colleagues never let reality get in the way of ideology. When they question most any government initiative that is called ‘public’ as in ‘public education’ or ‘social’ as in ‘Social Security’ as usual they continue to demand legislation that offers more comfort for the comfortable while actually increasing the number of uninsured by 350,000. Understand that if this legislation becomes law, instead of decreasing the number of uninsured American families, we’ll have 350,000 more Americans that don’t have health insurance. That’s their plan. “Our country continues to face a real healthcare crisis. Too many small businesses and individuals are paying too much for too little healthcare. Millions of families are just one accident on the way home from work this evening, or one illness, one child with a disability away from facing personal bankruptcy. That has not changed. “The Affordable Healthcare Act, I believe, is too weak. It should be much stronger. But it is so much better than the system we find ourselves in today with so many lacking so much, and it’s far superior to the Republican do-little or do-next-to-nothing approach – giving the American people half of a life-preserver, which is their approach. “As always, when there is a need for public action, whether it is building a better bridge or more bridges, or providing an opportunity for more young Americans to get a college education, or healthcare be it affordable preventive care, school-based care, long-term care, the Republican answer is always the same: no, no. And their excuse is always the same, too: ‘the deficit made me do it. I’d like to do something about long-term care but we just can’t afford to do it.’ “What a contrast when it comes to bills like today. Whenever it is about depleting the Treasury’s ability to fund those affordable needs for our country, they don’t worry too much about the deficit. $46 billion dollars earlier in the year… this is part of a package almost $42 billion dollars of additional revenue depletion. Later in the summer, we’re told that they’ll come up with $4 trillion dollars of Bush tax-cut extensions. What this will ultimately lead to, if we pursue the irresponsible path of which this is just another step, is that vital public programs that work, Medicare and Social Security, cannot be sustained. They cannot be financed, there is no free lunch to retirement and health security in this country. It requires that we invest in a responsible way, and that’s what the Affordable Healthcare Act does. Reject this legislation today which will undermine it and set us back in our efforts to provide healthcare security to millions of American families.” ###
05.31.2012	May 31, 2012 Washington-- Today, during Ways and Means consideration of Medical Device Tax, Health Care FSAs, and HSAs, Rep. Doggett addressed Republicans' failure to offer an alternative to health care reform.
05.31.2012	
05.31.2012	May 31, 2012 Washington-- Today, during Ways and Means consideration of Medical Device Tax, Health Care FSAs, and HSAs, Rep. Doggett addressed Republicans' continued attacks on health care reform that would add to the deficit. ;
05.31.2012	;
05.31.2012	May 31, 2012 Washington— Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett announced $712,352 in federal funds for Communities In Schools of Central Texas AmeriCorps from the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS). This grant will support 96 new AmeriCorps members, who will serve as mentors, academic supporters and service learning project leaders to more than 1,000 students in 3rd-8th grades who have been identified as at-risk of dropping out of high school. The members will serve in Travis, Hays, Caldwell, and Bastrop counties. “Recently, I celebrated AmeriCorps Week at City Hall with many young people, who are already making a big difference in our schools, homeless shelters, food banks, and non-profits,” said Rep. Doggett. “At a time when there is so much that is wrong with America, AmeriCorps is a bright light—helping all of us to know that there are so many people out there who care. These funds will fund more students helping to students to achieve their full potential through education.” “AmeriCorps Members who will serve for the next three years for Communities In Schools will work on high-needs campuses with students who need additional support to be successful in school,”said Suki Steinhauser, Executive Director of Communities In Schools of Central Texas. “Communities In Schools counts on these AmeriCorps Members to extend our reach so that about 1,200 students can receive high-quality support, mentoring, and tutoring.” In addition to this important funding for Communities in Schools, Americorps will provide each person, who completes their services, $5,550 to pay for college or to pay off student loans. ###
05.09.2012	Rep. Doggett's full remarks follow below: Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} I think what Americans need to know about this debate is that our Republican colleagues are telling us that the only way we can move forward is with more tax breaks for those at the top and the needs of those who are most vulnerable in our society can be better handled by the states and by Main Street. We have in this motion to preserve the Social Services Block Grant program, a program that has given the states additional resources that was signed into law by President Reagan and has had bipartisan support up until this month. Now, they say there are problems with the program. They want more effectiveness, they want better measurements, they think the states ought to have more skin in the game by putting in matching funds, they suggest other improvements that might be made with reference to other federal programs. Those may all be very good ideas. As I said at the outset, I think sometimes these block grant programs are block headed—that’s the way I feel about the block granting of Medicaid that is being proposed in the same resolution. If you find a problem in government, Republicans’ answer when they say “reform” is to “repeal.” That’s what they propose today. They’re not looking to improve this Social Services Block Grant. They’re not looking to get more accountability, better measurements or more effectiveness. They have a real simple answer to the bipartisan program that began with President Reagan: eliminate it, cut it out, terminate it. That’s what they do in today’s resolution. And the suggestion is we can rely on private entities to take care of some of these problems? Let me read to you what Catholic Charities told this committee: “Everyday thousands of individuals who are disabled, children, preschoolers, homeless, elderly, or at risk of being abused are receiving services because of SSBG funding...we reject the notion that those most vulnerable among us should feel the greatest impact of future reductions [in the budget].” And I think we should reject that. Catholic Charities, private contributors, they do some great work. But they need this to be able to accomplish their purpose. The suggestion was we need to tighten the eligibility requirements… they’ve gotten out of control. I can tell you that if a child comes in as a victim of abuse, we don’t need to ask how much their parents make. We need to reach out and care for that abused child and help them get their life back together. That’s some of the work that this block grant does in state after state that ought to be supported. The suggestion is that we’re just going to overtax people to pay for these vital services for the vulnerable. The effective tax rate for Exxon from 2008 to 2010 was 17.6%-- we’re not talking about whatever might have been in the statute—the statute is just there to give their lawyers a way to find a way around it and they’ve done a very good job of doing it. They don’t pay a rate of an independent service station. They pay special rates, and I can tell you from the price I’ve had to pay at the gas pump, all these tax incentives sure haven’t kept gas prices reasonable up to now. The suggestion is that well, some of these folks need to have more skin in the game. I can tell you that Donald, and Jenny, and Mary—they’ve got skin in this game. Their lives are at stake in this game. The Meals on Wheels program says they will be devastated if these cuts are made. It is a choice. I think this whole bill is misnamed. It’s not reconciliation—it’s WRECKonciliation because it will wreck one life after another whether it’s preventive health care or whether it’s Jenny and the food she relies on through the Meals on Wheels program. I think we should reject the wreck and adopt the motion. ###
05.09.2012	Rep. Doggett's full remarks follow below: Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} I think what Americans need to know about this debate is that our Republican colleagues are telling us that the only way we can move forward is with more tax breaks for those at the top and the needs of those who are most vulnerable in our society can be better handled by the states and by Main Street. We have in this motion to preserve the Social Services Block Grant program, a program that has given the states additional resources that was signed into law by President Reagan and has had bipartisan support up until this month. Now, they say there are problems with the program. They want more effectiveness, they want better measurements, they think the states ought to have more skin in the game by putting in matching funds, they suggest other improvements that might be made with reference to other federal programs. Those may all be very good ideas. As I said at the outset, I think sometimes these block grant programs are block headed—that’s the way I feel about the block granting of Medicaid that is being proposed in the same resolution. If you find a problem in government, Republicans’ answer when they say “reform” is to “repeal.” That’s what they propose today. They’re not looking to improve this Social Services Block Grant. They’re not looking to get more accountability, better measurements or more effectiveness. They have a real simple answer to the bipartisan program that began with President Reagan: eliminate it, cut it out, terminate it. That’s what they do in today’s resolution. And the suggestion is we can rely on private entities to take care of some of these problems? Let me read to you what Catholic Charities told this committee: “Everyday thousands of individuals who are disabled, children, preschoolers, homeless, elderly, or at risk of being abused are receiving services because of SSBG funding...we reject the notion that those most vulnerable among us should feel the greatest impact of future reductions [in the budget].” And I think we should reject that. Catholic Charities, private contributors, they do some great work. But they need this to be able to accomplish their purpose. The suggestion was we need to tighten the eligibility requirements… they’ve gotten out of control. I can tell you that if a child comes in as a victim of abuse, we don’t need to ask how much their parents make. We need to reach out and care for that abused child and help them get their life back together. That’s some of the work that this block grant does in state after state that ought to be supported. The suggestion is that we’re just going to overtax people to pay for these vital services for the vulnerable. The effective tax rate for Exxon from 2008 to 2010 was 17.6%-- we’re not talking about whatever might have been in the statute—the statute is just there to give their lawyers a way to find a way around it and they’ve done a very good job of doing it. They don’t pay a rate of an independent service station. They pay special rates, and I can tell you from the price I’ve had to pay at the gas pump, all these tax incentives sure haven’t kept gas prices reasonable up to now. The suggestion is that well, some of these folks need to have more skin in the game. I can tell you that Donald, and Jenny, and Mary—they’ve got skin in this game. Their lives are at stake in this game. The Meals on Wheels program says they will be devastated if these cuts are made. It is a choice. I think this whole bill is misnamed. It’s not reconciliation—it’s WRECKonciliation because it will wreck one life after another whether it’s preventive health care or whether it’s Jenny and the food she relies on through the Meals on Wheels program. I think we should reject the wreck and adopt the motion. ###
05.08.2012	Rep. Doggett's full remarks follow below: Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} States are also making cutbacks. If these funds are not available—it is these abused and neglected children who will pay the price for it. There are some 39 states that rely on these funds for child abuse and neglect prevention. I also think that the big emphasis with this block grant in many states is on independence—not only the independence of the states being able to select how they want to use the resources, but also the independence of the individuals, whether it is a senior who gets one of those rural Meals on Wheels or it is an individual with disabilities who needs additional assistance to be able to live independently of institutionalized care. We all know as well in our communities that we are called upon, regardless of political affiliation or philosophy, to get behind the many worthy local efforts happening to support our most vulnerable neighbors. As important as those efforts are, so many of those groups are relying on federal funds to meet some part of their mission. One group that contacted us is Easter Seals that does wonderful work with children with disabilities. Easter Seal affiliates throughout the country say that to provide quality services to support the independence of people with disabilities, they rely upon the Social Services Block Grant program. I think this is true whether it is the National Foster Care Coalition, the Arc, Women’s Law Center, American Public Health Services Association, Child Welfare League—one organization after another realizes the impact if this program is eliminated. There may be better ways to do it—I suggested to my colleagues who were critical of the broad unaccountable discretion given to the states with reference to this block grant program, that if it was too broad, we ought to put additional standards in. But it looks to me like at a time of great budget difficulty, most states are making effective use of these funds. I think it would be a serious mistake to eliminate them at this time while at the same time claiming that the solution to our national problems lies in block granting more programs. Indeed, one would think from looking at the block grant effort today for some programs and the elimination of this block grant program that has been in effect since Ronald Reagan’s day with bipartisan support, that the real approach is to first block grant and then to cut—like repeal and replace. And the effect on so many families and so many individuals is a very harsh and un-American one that we don’t have to do. There are other ways for all Americans to get together and support the budget restraint we need without putting so much of it on the most vulnerable citizens.
05.08.2012	Rep. Doggett's full remarks follow below: Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} States are also making cutbacks. If these funds are not available—it is these abused and neglected children who will pay the price for it. There are some 39 states that rely on these funds for child abuse and neglect prevention. I also think that the big emphasis with this block grant in many states is on independence—not only the independence of the states being able to select how they want to use the resources, but also the independence of the individuals, whether it is a senior who gets one of those rural Meals on Wheels or it is an individual with disabilities who needs additional assistance to be able to live independently of institutionalized care. We all know as well in our communities that we are called upon, regardless of political affiliation or philosophy, to get behind the many worthy local efforts happening to support our most vulnerable neighbors. As important as those efforts are, so many of those groups are relying on federal funds to meet some part of their mission. One group that contacted us is Easter Seals that does wonderful work with children with disabilities. Easter Seal affiliates throughout the country say that to provide quality services to support the independence of people with disabilities, they rely upon the Social Services Block Grant program. I think this is true whether it is the National Foster Care Coalition, the Arc, Women’s Law Center, American Public Health Services Association, Child Welfare League—one organization after another realizes the impact if this program is eliminated. There may be better ways to do it—I suggested to my colleagues who were critical of the broad unaccountable discretion given to the states with reference to this block grant program, that if it was too broad, we ought to put additional standards in. But it looks to me like at a time of great budget difficulty, most states are making effective use of these funds. I think it would be a serious mistake to eliminate them at this time while at the same time claiming that the solution to our national problems lies in block granting more programs. Indeed, one would think from looking at the block grant effort today for some programs and the elimination of this block grant program that has been in effect since Ronald Reagan’s day with bipartisan support, that the real approach is to first block grant and then to cut—like repeal and replace. And the effect on so many families and so many individuals is a very harsh and un-American one that we don’t have to do. There are other ways for all Americans to get together and support the budget restraint we need without putting so much of it on the most vulnerable citizens.
05.08.2012	The full text of Rep. Doggett's remarks follow below: Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} It is very important to point out on this motion that every dollar for these social services— for Meals on Wheels, for the 39 states that rely on these funds to deal with abused and neglected children—every one of these dollars is paid for in this motion. The notion that Exxon and Chevron are being overtaxed is absolute nonsense. I’d just like Exxon and Chevron to pay the same tax rate that Leos Phillips 66 on Airport and East 11th in Austin where I get my car serviced pays. I’d like them to pay the same rate as the people who clean up the corporate board room pay. They have one special interest tax break after another and we don’t get at all of them—but they have gotten special tax breaks not because they’re merited, but because they have the lobbying and the political power to demand treatment that does not apply to any other industry in Washington. And we say through this motion, if you have to choose between Exxon and Jenny, let’s choose Jenny.
05.08.2012	The full text of Rep. Doggett's remarks follow below: Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} It is very important to point out on this motion that every dollar for these social services— for Meals on Wheels, for the 39 states that rely on these funds to deal with abused and neglected children—every one of these dollars is paid for in this motion. The notion that Exxon and Chevron are being overtaxed is absolute nonsense. I’d just like Exxon and Chevron to pay the same tax rate that Leos Phillips 66 on Airport and East 11th in Austin where I get my car serviced pays. I’d like them to pay the same rate as the people who clean up the corporate board room pay. They have one special interest tax break after another and we don’t get at all of them—but they have gotten special tax breaks not because they’re merited, but because they have the lobbying and the political power to demand treatment that does not apply to any other industry in Washington. And we say through this motion, if you have to choose between Exxon and Jenny, let’s choose Jenny.
05.07.2012	Rep. Doggett's full remarks as prepared for delivery follow below: Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Mr. Chairman, from you and our Republican colleagues we have heard much already today about the desirability of leaving more of these decisions to the states and seeking Main Street solutions rather than Washington solutions. This motion deals with an attempt to give the states more responsibility in the area of social services—an attempt, in fact, that was signed into law by one Ronald Reagan. It is a program that has enjoyed through the years bipartisan support. It has been renewed without heavy ideological debate as a way to assist the states in meeting their responsibilities to many of our most vulnerable citizens. Now at a time when Republicans are telling us we need to block grant Medicaid—some are even saying we need to block grant Social Security—we are told that this particular block grant program, signed into law by President Reagan, should be abolished. It is part of the same thinking that when Republicans tell us something should be reformed they usually mean repealed—as with repeal and replace where there is no replacement that has been advanced over the last year-and-a-half. Specifically with the Social Services block grant program, I can’t say that all of the criticisms of the concept of block grants is misplaced. I’ve found at times that these block grant programs go to block headed governors that don’t make effective use of the resources they get from the federal government or mainly use these block grants to claim credit for funding programs that they did not provide the tax dollars for, but that were raised in a totally different place. But I think in looking at block grant programs—this particular one was criticized in the Ways and Means hearing based solely on the fact the state program didn’t have enough standards to it. In other words, it didn’t have enough Washington restrictions on Main Street solutions. There be some merit to having some additional standards apply to this block grant. It may even be that this block grant is not the highest priority in our government funding. But my concern is that at a time when the states are making significant cut backs in all of their social services, the question is not whether this is the very best way to do it, but whether or not there are some Americans who will suffer dramatically if this block grant program that follows the same concept that is being advocated today for Medicaid, is terminated, which is what this motion would prevent and what the reconciliation bill would do. Let me talk a little about how this Social Services Block Grant, without many standards, giving the states flexibility to allocate these dollars as they choose to do so in the Social Service area is utilized in Texas. In Austin, in San Antonio, and in other areas of the state relies heavily on this program to fund the Meals on Wheels program. Sharon Baughman of Christian Senior Services in San Antonio says that in that county, a large number of the people that they serve are veterans or the spouse of a veteran, that these are people who have served their country, paid their taxes, and lived productive lives. As she said to me, it really isn’t asking so much to make sure that they receive at least one healthy meal every day. It is that funding that would be eliminated if this motion is not adopted. Michael Goldstein at Meals on Wheels and More in Austin says that these cuts would be abs olutely devastating to the people that they serve, they would be devastating to budgets because of the tremendous cost of placing seniors in nursing homes because they cannot live independently when they lose their meal. One person who benefits directly is my neighbor Mary Simpson. She says: “People like me who live on Social Security don’t have a lot of money. Meals on Wheels helps out so much especially with everything so costly. Even buying a loaf of bread and lunch meat is difficult for me, but with Meals on Wheels at least I know I get one good meal a day.” It is that type of program that will be seriously compromised, indeed in the words of the director who relies on these funds, “absolutely devastated” if this block grant is terminated. Of course some other states have chosen to use their monies through this block grant in different ways. In New York, funds are used by adult protective services. In California, the focus is on special services to individuals with disabilities. We have heard from a wide range of groups across the country, groups like Catholic Charities, Easter Seals, The Arc, Children’s Defense Fund about what will happen when so many states are making cutbacks that are impairing social services if on top of that, this Social Services Block Grant is axed as well. These are individuals like “Jenny” -- a 52 year-old woman who grew up in a state institution. Jenny was discharged into the community in the 1980s with no training, no family support and no income. The Arc found her a place to live, a volunteer to take her to the doctor and teach her how to ride the bus, and got her signed up for doctor’s appointments and therapies. Jenny now lives in her own apartment, with support from The Arc’s case management staff, and is working part-time at a local restaurant. The small amount of funding The Arc received through the Social Services Block Grant program helped change Jenny’s life. And “Donald” -- a 30 year-old man with significant physical and mental disabilities. Donald’s mother died when she was in her fifties, and his siblings could not care for him. He was in danger of being institutionalized. The Arc found Donald a small group home, a volunteer, and provided him with monthly social outings and friendships. Again, a life changing experience and the avoidance of dangerous and costly care in a state-supported living center. I think it is a life worth protecting, as is this Social Services Block Grant program. We will also see many abused children, in some states, adversely affected with cuts that have already been made in Child and Protective Services. A number of people wrote to me in my role as Ranking Member of the Human Resources Subcommittee to tell me about what the effect would be in their state on abused children if these dollars are lost. These are real, live human beings who will suffer directly if these resources are not there.
05.07.2012	Rep. Doggett's full remarks as prepared for delivery follow below: Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Mr. Chairman, from you and our Republican colleagues we have heard much already today about the desirability of leaving more of these decisions to the states and seeking Main Street solutions rather than Washington solutions. This motion deals with an attempt to give the states more responsibility in the area of social services—an attempt, in fact, that was signed into law by one Ronald Reagan. It is a program that has enjoyed through the years bipartisan support. It has been renewed without heavy ideological debate as a way to assist the states in meeting their responsibilities to many of our most vulnerable citizens. Now at a time when Republicans are telling us we need to block grant Medicaid—some are even saying we need to block grant Social Security—we are told that this particular block grant program, signed into law by President Reagan, should be abolished. It is part of the same thinking that when Republicans tell us something should be reformed they usually mean repealed—as with repeal and replace where there is no replacement that has been advanced over the last year-and-a-half. Specifically with the Social Services block grant program, I can’t say that all of the criticisms of the concept of block grants is misplaced. I’ve found at times that these block grant programs go to block headed governors that don’t make effective use of the resources they get from the federal government or mainly use these block grants to claim credit for funding programs that they did not provide the tax dollars for, but that were raised in a totally different place. But I think in looking at block grant programs—this particular one was criticized in the Ways and Means hearing based solely on the fact the state program didn’t have enough standards to it. In other words, it didn’t have enough Washington restrictions on Main Street solutions. There be some merit to having some additional standards apply to this block grant. It may even be that this block grant is not the highest priority in our government funding. But my concern is that at a time when the states are making significant cut backs in all of their social services, the question is not whether this is the very best way to do it, but whether or not there are some Americans who will suffer dramatically if this block grant program that follows the same concept that is being advocated today for Medicaid, is terminated, which is what this motion would prevent and what the reconciliation bill would do. Let me talk a little about how this Social Services Block Grant, without many standards, giving the states flexibility to allocate these dollars as they choose to do so in the Social Service area is utilized in Texas. In Austin, in San Antonio, and in other areas of the state relies heavily on this program to fund the Meals on Wheels program. Sharon Baughman of Christian Senior Services in San Antonio says that in that county, a large number of the people that they serve are veterans or the spouse of a veteran, that these are people who have served their country, paid their taxes, and lived productive lives. As she said to me, it really isn’t asking so much to make sure that they receive at least one healthy meal every day. It is that funding that would be eliminated if this motion is not adopted. Michael Goldstein at Meals on Wheels and More in Austin says that these cuts would be abs olutely devastating to the people that they serve, they would be devastating to budgets because of the tremendous cost of placing seniors in nursing homes because they cannot live independently when they lose their meal. One person who benefits directly is my neighbor Mary Simpson. She says: “People like me who live on Social Security don’t have a lot of money. Meals on Wheels helps out so much especially with everything so costly. Even buying a loaf of bread and lunch meat is difficult for me, but with Meals on Wheels at least I know I get one good meal a day.” It is that type of program that will be seriously compromised, indeed in the words of the director who relies on these funds, “absolutely devastated” if this block grant is terminated. Of course some other states have chosen to use their monies through this block grant in different ways. In New York, funds are used by adult protective services. In California, the focus is on special services to individuals with disabilities. We have heard from a wide range of groups across the country, groups like Catholic Charities, Easter Seals, The Arc, Children’s Defense Fund about what will happen when so many states are making cutbacks that are impairing social services if on top of that, this Social Services Block Grant is axed as well. These are individuals like “Jenny” -- a 52 year-old woman who grew up in a state institution. Jenny was discharged into the community in the 1980s with no training, no family support and no income. The Arc found her a place to live, a volunteer to take her to the doctor and teach her how to ride the bus, and got her signed up for doctor’s appointments and therapies. Jenny now lives in her own apartment, with support from The Arc’s case management staff, and is working part-time at a local restaurant. The small amount of funding The Arc received through the Social Services Block Grant program helped change Jenny’s life. And “Donald” -- a 30 year-old man with significant physical and mental disabilities. Donald’s mother died when she was in her fifties, and his siblings could not care for him. He was in danger of being institutionalized. The Arc found Donald a small group home, a volunteer, and provided him with monthly social outings and friendships. Again, a life changing experience and the avoidance of dangerous and costly care in a state-supported living center. I think it is a life worth protecting, as is this Social Services Block Grant program. We will also see many abused children, in some states, adversely affected with cuts that have already been made in Child and Protective Services. A number of people wrote to me in my role as Ranking Member of the Human Resources Subcommittee to tell me about what the effect would be in their state on abused children if these dollars are lost. These are real, live human beings who will suffer directly if these resources are not there.
05.07.2012	Rep. Doggett's full remarks as delivered follow below: Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Like the last motion, this one deals with the real life struggle of so many American families. It may be a family with a sick or disabled child who suddenly find themselves facing bankruptcy because of their lack of access to our health care system. It may be a senior with Parkinson’s in a nursing home. Or it may be a young woman who needs mammography to avoid a threatening health condition. The last debate we had about this health care issue is as if the people who sit around this table came from different planets. At least they come from very different life experiences. I see the people that we are talking about it, I talk with them, I interact with them. I have a senior come up at a Neighborhood Office Hours and tell me that the state Medicaid program will cover only three of the five prescriptions that the doctor said were essential to their health care. We were told by our Republican colleagues in response to the last motion, “Don’t worry, it’s a phony number that 400,000 people will be denied health care because we plan to repeal all of the Affordable Health Care Act and they wouldn’t have gotten coverage anyway.” What kind of a response is that? And then the suggestion that all they’re really doing is scrubbing it down, eliminating the waste, eliminating the fraud in the Medicaid program is outrageous. There has been fraud in the Medicaid program—some of the most significant fraud has been by pharmaceutical manufactures in my state and across the country. I think we should do everything we can to prevent that fraud—but why should the woman who needs a breast cancer screening, the child who needs a diabetes screening or an immunization, why should they pay for that fraud that we haven’t done enough to ferret out? So we get to this motion and the whole idea of trying to reduce health care costs. I think it’s a significant part of the Affordable Health Care Act to reduce long-term health care costs not only by trying to limit some of the growth in the expenditures, but trying to prevent the need for the health care service in the first place. I have been to a number of events recently where I have seen individuals who have severed limbs, in some cases more than one severed limb, and are in a wheel chair and it’s because their diabetes got out of control, because it wasn’t prevented. Diabetes is almost at an epidemic stage in some parts of Texas that I represent. This motion is about trying to prevent conditions like diabetes before they get run away, before they cost us even more money in hospital costs and lost productivity, not to mention the lost joy of life and being able to get around. Just this past weekend, I was at a celebration for the Komen Foundation in Austin who every year puts on the Race for the Cure—a gathering in Austin, Texas and we’ll have thousands out this Saturday in San Antonio. So much of the focus of this race and organization is about prevention. It is about reaching out and helping women get the care they need before they might develop some form of breast cancer. That’s what this motion is about—about assuring the resources for prevention. It was the American Cancer Society that said a person who lacks health insurance and who develops Cancer has a 60% greater chance of dying than someone who has insurance. That’s what the Affordable Care Act, of which this Prevention and Public Health Fund is a part, is all about. And then there’s a question of how we pay for it, because we do pay for this motion. We have a number of provisions in our tax laws that favor the export of American jobs. Through this motion, Ms. Schwartz closes those tax loopholes and pays for prevention by preventing the loss of American jobs. We have a terrible problem with the export of our intellectual property because of the incentives for loopholes and tax dodges—and some of those loopholes can be closed through this motion.
05.07.2012	Rep. Doggett's full remarks as delivered follow below: Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Like the last motion, this one deals with the real life struggle of so many American families. It may be a family with a sick or disabled child who suddenly find themselves facing bankruptcy because of their lack of access to our health care system. It may be a senior with Parkinson’s in a nursing home. Or it may be a young woman who needs mammography to avoid a threatening health condition. The last debate we had about this health care issue is as if the people who sit around this table came from different planets. At least they come from very different life experiences. I see the people that we are talking about it, I talk with them, I interact with them. I have a senior come up at a Neighborhood Office Hours and tell me that the state Medicaid program will cover only three of the five prescriptions that the doctor said were essential to their health care. We were told by our Republican colleagues in response to the last motion, “Don’t worry, it’s a phony number that 400,000 people will be denied health care because we plan to repeal all of the Affordable Health Care Act and they wouldn’t have gotten coverage anyway.” What kind of a response is that? And then the suggestion that all they’re really doing is scrubbing it down, eliminating the waste, eliminating the fraud in the Medicaid program is outrageous. There has been fraud in the Medicaid program—some of the most significant fraud has been by pharmaceutical manufactures in my state and across the country. I think we should do everything we can to prevent that fraud—but why should the woman who needs a breast cancer screening, the child who needs a diabetes screening or an immunization, why should they pay for that fraud that we haven’t done enough to ferret out? So we get to this motion and the whole idea of trying to reduce health care costs. I think it’s a significant part of the Affordable Health Care Act to reduce long-term health care costs not only by trying to limit some of the growth in the expenditures, but trying to prevent the need for the health care service in the first place. I have been to a number of events recently where I have seen individuals who have severed limbs, in some cases more than one severed limb, and are in a wheel chair and it’s because their diabetes got out of control, because it wasn’t prevented. Diabetes is almost at an epidemic stage in some parts of Texas that I represent. This motion is about trying to prevent conditions like diabetes before they get run away, before they cost us even more money in hospital costs and lost productivity, not to mention the lost joy of life and being able to get around. Just this past weekend, I was at a celebration for the Komen Foundation in Austin who every year puts on the Race for the Cure—a gathering in Austin, Texas and we’ll have thousands out this Saturday in San Antonio. So much of the focus of this race and organization is about prevention. It is about reaching out and helping women get the care they need before they might develop some form of breast cancer. That’s what this motion is about—about assuring the resources for prevention. It was the American Cancer Society that said a person who lacks health insurance and who develops Cancer has a 60% greater chance of dying than someone who has insurance. That’s what the Affordable Care Act, of which this Prevention and Public Health Fund is a part, is all about. And then there’s a question of how we pay for it, because we do pay for this motion. We have a number of provisions in our tax laws that favor the export of American jobs. Through this motion, Ms. Schwartz closes those tax loopholes and pays for prevention by preventing the loss of American jobs. We have a terrible problem with the export of our intellectual property because of the incentives for loopholes and tax dodges—and some of those loopholes can be closed through this motion.
05.07.2012	Rep. Doggett's full remarks as delivered follow below: Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} This effort, like so many other aspects on this reconciliation matter, is really just designed to place the burden on our most vulnerable neighbors for the effort to try to get our budget in better order. In giving the states much broader discretion, the only way we will save money is if that discretion is exercised in order to deny more health care to more people. While the Affordable Care Act extended insurance coverage to over 30 million of the uninsured, the only way that goal can be fully fulfilled is for Medicaid to be accessible to those who need it the most. Denying coverage to those in Medicaid, or setting up various phony restrictions such as frequent renewal of coverage in hopes that some poor people will be unable to access coverage, just means that fewer children will get vaccinations, fewer pregnant women will get the prenatal care that they need, fewer seniors will be able to access quality nursing home care or other types of long term care. And it means, as several of my colleagues have noted, that we’ll find 400,000 people losing their coverage. Like the Republican plan to eliminate the Prevention and Public Health Fund, it doesn’t really save our society money in the long run. These newly uninsured individuals will still need health care—and many of them will receive the most expensive form of it by filling our emergency rooms. Just like the Chairman’s plan to block grant Medicaid, this proposal is done under the guise of giving the states more authority over Medicaid programs. We’ve had some experience with this in Texas. In Texas, in 2010, Governor Perry was given almost $850 million extra dollars for Medicaid. I’ve yet to find one child or one senior who got improved health care services as a result of that near billion dollars of federal expenditures. In fact, Texas, within a few days of receiving this $850 billion, even though it was near the bottom of the states in reimbursements to physicians, took the near billion dollars from the federal government and proceeded to cut those payments further, using the money to plug unrelated budget holes. I have no confidence that the changes being made here today will result in anything other than substantial reductions in the quality of care and in the number of people who can access care in my home state. No one can doubt that we need to address our rising deficit. This motion ensures that when considering ways to solve our debt, that we ask not just Ms. Lopez, who is a senior trying to access long-term health care, but Mr. Exxon to contribute a little in this effort to find a fair and responsible budget. The Republican way—just taking from the pockets of the elderly and cutting health services for children without closing a single tax loophole— is just the opposite of fair, responsible, and reasonable. I support this motion and hope that it can be adopted to add a tad of equity in what is a very inequitable reconciliation measure.
05.07.2012	Rep. Doggett's full remarks as delivered follow below: Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} This effort, like so many other aspects on this reconciliation matter, is really just designed to place the burden on our most vulnerable neighbors for the effort to try to get our budget in better order. In giving the states much broader discretion, the only way we will save money is if that discretion is exercised in order to deny more health care to more people. While the Affordable Care Act extended insurance coverage to over 30 million of the uninsured, the only way that goal can be fully fulfilled is for Medicaid to be accessible to those who need it the most. Denying coverage to those in Medicaid, or setting up various phony restrictions such as frequent renewal of coverage in hopes that some poor people will be unable to access coverage, just means that fewer children will get vaccinations, fewer pregnant women will get the prenatal care that they need, fewer seniors will be able to access quality nursing home care or other types of long term care. And it means, as several of my colleagues have noted, that we’ll find 400,000 people losing their coverage. Like the Republican plan to eliminate the Prevention and Public Health Fund, it doesn’t really save our society money in the long run. These newly uninsured individuals will still need health care—and many of them will receive the most expensive form of it by filling our emergency rooms. Just like the Chairman’s plan to block grant Medicaid, this proposal is done under the guise of giving the states more authority over Medicaid programs. We’ve had some experience with this in Texas. In Texas, in 2010, Governor Perry was given almost $850 million extra dollars for Medicaid. I’ve yet to find one child or one senior who got improved health care services as a result of that near billion dollars of federal expenditures. In fact, Texas, within a few days of receiving this $850 billion, even though it was near the bottom of the states in reimbursements to physicians, took the near billion dollars from the federal government and proceeded to cut those payments further, using the money to plug unrelated budget holes. I have no confidence that the changes being made here today will result in anything other than substantial reductions in the quality of care and in the number of people who can access care in my home state. No one can doubt that we need to address our rising deficit. This motion ensures that when considering ways to solve our debt, that we ask not just Ms. Lopez, who is a senior trying to access long-term health care, but Mr. Exxon to contribute a little in this effort to find a fair and responsible budget. The Republican way—just taking from the pockets of the elderly and cutting health services for children without closing a single tax loophole— is just the opposite of fair, responsible, and reasonable. I support this motion and hope that it can be adopted to add a tad of equity in what is a very inequitable reconciliation measure.
04.26.2012	April 26, 2012 Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";} Washington—Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, Chair of the Texas Democratic Congressional Delegation and senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, issued the following statement after the U.S. Senate confirmed the nominations of Gregg Costa for a federal judgeship in Galveston and Judge David Guaderrama for a federal judgeship in El Paso: “I am pleased that the Senate has now confirmed Gregg Costa and Judge David Guaderrama as federal judges. The confirmation of these two individuals was long overdue. Mr. Costa has dedicated most of his outstanding legal career to public service. Judge Guaderrama has long served the El Paso community with distinction. Each will help strengthen federal justice in Texas. While this process took far too long and there remain too many unfilled judicial vacancies in Texas, this vote represents modest progress.” ###
04.25.2012	His full remarks as prepared follow below: Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";} “Extending a hand to Americans who have lost their job through no fault of their own and who are out searching for new opportunities is the right thing to do for our economy and for millions of our fellow Americans. Unemployment benefits helped, in a significant way, to avoid a very bad recession from becoming a catastrophic depression by helping folks put food on the table, a roof over their families’ heads, and provide clothes for their children to go to school. “Overall, our economy is making some progress, as evidenced by the nearly 3.5 million jobs that have been created over the last two years. But even with this improvement, there is still considerable work to do: we still have roughly 5 million fewer jobs than when the recession started in December 2007, before this administration took office. “Though there has been some good news in Texas, according to the Center for Public Policy Priorities in East Austin, we still have a shortfall in Texas of almost three-quarters of a million jobs, accounting for the state’s job losses and booming population. In San Antonio, for example, almost 40,000 workers are receiving unemployment benefits and more than half of those have been unemployed for at least six months. In Travis County, almost 25,000 unemployed workers are claiming benefits. “Last week, the San Antonio Express News held a job fair that attracted 1,400 people, including Amanda, a 46-year-old trained medical assistant, who has been searching for a job for six months without success. “It is vital that we maintain the unemployment insurance lifeline for families who want to work but have not yet been able to find a job. I am therefore glad that a number of our Republican colleagues – after dragging their feet and creating an unnecessary crisis for too many families – finally joined Democrats in maintaining emergency unemployment benefits through the end of 2012. “I am also pleased that the final legislation included a number of reforms designed to promote employment. Last year, I worked with Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon on legislation to encourage more states to promote entrepreneurship among the unemployed by allowing under certain conditions those who are unemployed to use their resources to help establish small businesses. I think this is a program with much potential for some of the unemployed and I look forward to hearing from the Secretary and others about how that potential can be achieved. “The final legislation also contained provisions to avert layoffs through work sharing programs, in which individuals receive partial unemployment checks when their work hours are cut. Additionally, the measure included a recommendation from the Obama Administration to require all recipients of emergency UI to undertake reemployment assessments. And there are some demonstration projects that will be conducted by the Secretary of Labor to explore other alternatives which we can discuss this morning. “As we review how states are responding to the various changes in Federal law related to unemployment benefits, we need to acknowledge that a much bigger challenge is looming for many states. Thirty states now owe the federal government $41 billion in UI loans and several other state unemployment programs, including my home State of Texas, have borrowed from the private market. “The magnitude of the recession had an obvious impact in driving up insolvency, but truthfully, a number of these States failed to make preparations for even a mild recession, much less a more severe one like that we experienced. A system that was more forward funded would have averted many of these outcomes. I look forward to suggestions about how we can create an unemployment insurance system that does a better job of saving for the future and protecting those who need it in an economic downturn.” # # #
04.25.2012	His full remarks as prepared follow below: Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";} “Extending a hand to Americans who have lost their job through no fault of their own and who are out searching for new opportunities is the right thing to do for our economy and for millions of our fellow Americans. Unemployment benefits helped, in a significant way, to avoid a very bad recession from becoming a catastrophic depression by helping folks put food on the table, a roof over their families’ heads, and provide clothes for their children to go to school. “Overall, our economy is making some progress, as evidenced by the nearly 3.5 million jobs that have been created over the last two years. But even with this improvement, there is still considerable work to do: we still have roughly 5 million fewer jobs than when the recession started in December 2007, before this administration took office. “Though there has been some good news in Texas, according to the Center for Public Policy Priorities in East Austin, we still have a shortfall in Texas of almost three-quarters of a million jobs, accounting for the state’s job losses and booming population. In San Antonio, for example, almost 40,000 workers are receiving unemployment benefits and more than half of those have been unemployed for at least six months. In Travis County, almost 25,000 unemployed workers are claiming benefits. “Last week, the San Antonio Express News held a job fair that attracted 1,400 people, including Amanda, a 46-year-old trained medical assistant, who has been searching for a job for six months without success. “It is vital that we maintain the unemployment insurance lifeline for families who want to work but have not yet been able to find a job. I am therefore glad that a number of our Republican colleagues – after dragging their feet and creating an unnecessary crisis for too many families – finally joined Democrats in maintaining emergency unemployment benefits through the end of 2012. “I am also pleased that the final legislation included a number of reforms designed to promote employment. Last year, I worked with Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon on legislation to encourage more states to promote entrepreneurship among the unemployed by allowing under certain conditions those who are unemployed to use their resources to help establish small businesses. I think this is a program with much potential for some of the unemployed and I look forward to hearing from the Secretary and others about how that potential can be achieved. “The final legislation also contained provisions to avert layoffs through work sharing programs, in which individuals receive partial unemployment checks when their work hours are cut. Additionally, the measure included a recommendation from the Obama Administration to require all recipients of emergency UI to undertake reemployment assessments. And there are some demonstration projects that will be conducted by the Secretary of Labor to explore other alternatives which we can discuss this morning. “As we review how states are responding to the various changes in Federal law related to unemployment benefits, we need to acknowledge that a much bigger challenge is looming for many states. Thirty states now owe the federal government $41 billion in UI loans and several other state unemployment programs, including my home State of Texas, have borrowed from the private market. “The magnitude of the recession had an obvious impact in driving up insolvency, but truthfully, a number of these States failed to make preparations for even a mild recession, much less a more severe one like that we experienced. A system that was more forward funded would have averted many of these outcomes. I look forward to suggestions about how we can create an unemployment insurance system that does a better job of saving for the future and protecting those who need it in an economic downturn.” # # #
04.24.2012	April 24, 2012 AUSTIN (KXAN) - Congressman Lloyd Doggett is taking the fight against coal tar sealants – the black coating sprayed on paved surfaces like driveways and parking lots – to Washington. Doggett, D-Austin, recently introduced legislation – the Coal Tar Sealants Reduction Act - to phase out this material – a major source of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons or PAHS. Several PAHs are known to be toxic to aquatic life, in addition to possible human carcinogens – a known cause of cancer. “The threat that these substances pose to our ecosystems and our health, especially our children’s health, demands action,” said Doggett. “In the roughly 10 years since we were first alerted to the issue of coal tar sealant pollution in Barton Springs, we have learned that this is a nationwide problem that we are exposed to through the air we breathe and the dust that is tracked into our homes. This is a common-sense measure.” Several places across the nation have started implementing restrictions against the material, including Washington State, Dane County in Wisconsin, and the District of Columbia. In 2006, the city of Austin completely banned future use of the sealant. In a letter to Congress, the Clean Water Network stated, “This bill would protect public health and the environment by banning the use of this unnecessary poison. We applaud Congressman Lloyd Doggett for introducing this important legislation.” Doggett has been pushing since 2003 for tighter regulations on the use of the tar and has asked the EPA to conduct a national study on the substance. By Josh Hinkle
04.19.2012	The full text of Rep. Doggett's remarks follow below: Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Republicans are always so much better in the names they give these bills than what’s in them. I think in considering this one, we have to look at what it is and what it is not. It is not an economic recovery measure. A nonpartisan analysis has shown that the economic benefits are considered so small as to be incalculable. It is not helpful to sole proprietors who do not benefit at all from this bill. It is not a way to reduce the deficit or the national debt. Indeed, this is a measure that will immediately $46 billion to the national deficit. We were told only yesterday that because of a pressing national debt, we can no longer fund hot meals for seniors through the Meals on Wheels program in Texas… that we could not afford to provide federal resources that are necessary there on child abuse, keeping a child with a disability at home, or helping a senior maintain their independence… that there just aren’t the resources to do that. But today, we are told there is $46 billion we can add to the debt for a nice sounding bill. What is this bill? It is another failed Republican retread. It is a measure that will help those at the top rather than those who are really struggling to get to the top. I am concerned about the Ice House on the Westside of San Antonio, about the beauty shop in Lockhart, about the auto repair shop in San Marcos. But those are not the places that will receive the principal benefits of this measure. Indeed, 125,000 millionaires will get more in tax benefits out of this than many of the owners of those businesses earn during an entire year. In fact, more than the median income throughout San Antonio and Austin in South and Central Texas. This bill will be a boon to highly paid professionals, private equity firms, hedge fund managers and professional sports teams. I think they’ve received enough economic benefit in the past with the Bush Tax Cuts. We should be focusing our support for small businesses not on those who are already at the top and should be contributing a little to the shared sacrifice to get our national debt under control and meet basic human needs.
04.19.2012	The full text of Rep. Doggett's remarks follow below: Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Republicans are always so much better in the names they give these bills than what’s in them. I think in considering this one, we have to look at what it is and what it is not. It is not an economic recovery measure. A nonpartisan analysis has shown that the economic benefits are considered so small as to be incalculable. It is not helpful to sole proprietors who do not benefit at all from this bill. It is not a way to reduce the deficit or the national debt. Indeed, this is a measure that will immediately $46 billion to the national deficit. We were told only yesterday that because of a pressing national debt, we can no longer fund hot meals for seniors through the Meals on Wheels program in Texas… that we could not afford to provide federal resources that are necessary there on child abuse, keeping a child with a disability at home, or helping a senior maintain their independence… that there just aren’t the resources to do that. But today, we are told there is $46 billion we can add to the debt for a nice sounding bill. What is this bill? It is another failed Republican retread. It is a measure that will help those at the top rather than those who are really struggling to get to the top. I am concerned about the Ice House on the Westside of San Antonio, about the beauty shop in Lockhart, about the auto repair shop in San Marcos. But those are not the places that will receive the principal benefits of this measure. Indeed, 125,000 millionaires will get more in tax benefits out of this than many of the owners of those businesses earn during an entire year. In fact, more than the median income throughout San Antonio and Austin in South and Central Texas. This bill will be a boon to highly paid professionals, private equity firms, hedge fund managers and professional sports teams. I think they’ve received enough economic benefit in the past with the Bush Tax Cuts. We should be focusing our support for small businesses not on those who are already at the top and should be contributing a little to the shared sacrifice to get our national debt under control and meet basic human needs.
04.19.2012	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} I thank you, Mr. Chairman, thank you for the great personal interest that you’ve shown in this whole data matching effort and for the partnership we have enjoyed in working as you mentioned on child welfare legislation, on data matching, and for temporary assistance for needy families and for unemployment insurance programs. It is important to improve the administration of public programs through technology. It benefits taxpayers and benefits those who rely on those programs. Abuse of government programs, whether by a multinational pharmaceutical company or a person collecting unemployment insurance is never acceptable, it denies the benefits that are needed to others and it unjustly treats the tax payer. I hope we can continue to make progress on standardizing data that that would include incorporating existing nonproprietary standards, such as XBRL, has the support of the Texas Society of Certified Public Accountants. I think that better use of data matching and data sharing across agencies improves our efforts to reduce fraud and abuse. We want to get these benefits to those who need them and who are eligible for them. And my interest in this is not only about program integrity but in seeing that programs satisfy their legislative purpose. This is particularly true when there are so many families in my home state of Texas, and across the country, that struggle to maintain their footing. In Bexar County, for example, one in four children are poor. We must find a way to ensure that our most vulnerable citizens are provided with the assistance they need to weather economic storms. And proving the ability to do this through better data is one important aspect of outreach Those efforts are now underway in Philadelphia through a collaboration between the State of Pennsylvania and the Benefits Data Trust, a non-profit organization from whom we will hear this morning. The Benefits Data Trust has been able to use State data to determine if an individual who is receiving assistance from certain program is likely eligible for assistance in another. It is true that there are too many duplicative programs but the total benefits provided by all of them if delivered efficiently in the most effective way probably do not begin to meet the needs that are out there. Identifying and connecting low-income individuals to the services for which they are eligible allows the organization to work in a cost-efficient manner, while also dramatically improving the outcomes of those individuals who are to receive benefits and our economy in the process. I think this is particularly relevant to the current attention on the delivery of food assistance through the SNAP program. A report released recently by the U.S. Department of Agriculture found that SNAP benefits helped to reduce national poverty in a significant way. These benefits played an important role in providing critical assistance that I saw recently in at the food bank in the Westside of San Antonio. Mr. Chairman, I look forward to hearing from today’s witnesses and continuing our work together to improve the outreach, the efficiency, and the effectiveness of these vital public initiatives through the use of technology. Thank you so much.
04.19.2012	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} I thank you, Mr. Chairman, thank you for the great personal interest that you’ve shown in this whole data matching effort and for the partnership we have enjoyed in working as you mentioned on child welfare legislation, on data matching, and for temporary assistance for needy families and for unemployment insurance programs. It is important to improve the administration of public programs through technology. It benefits taxpayers and benefits those who rely on those programs. Abuse of government programs, whether by a multinational pharmaceutical company or a person collecting unemployment insurance is never acceptable, it denies the benefits that are needed to others and it unjustly treats the tax payer. I hope we can continue to make progress on standardizing data that that would include incorporating existing nonproprietary standards, such as XBRL, has the support of the Texas Society of Certified Public Accountants. I think that better use of data matching and data sharing across agencies improves our efforts to reduce fraud and abuse. We want to get these benefits to those who need them and who are eligible for them. And my interest in this is not only about program integrity but in seeing that programs satisfy their legislative purpose. This is particularly true when there are so many families in my home state of Texas, and across the country, that struggle to maintain their footing. In Bexar County, for example, one in four children are poor. We must find a way to ensure that our most vulnerable citizens are provided with the assistance they need to weather economic storms. And proving the ability to do this through better data is one important aspect of outreach Those efforts are now underway in Philadelphia through a collaboration between the State of Pennsylvania and the Benefits Data Trust, a non-profit organization from whom we will hear this morning. The Benefits Data Trust has been able to use State data to determine if an individual who is receiving assistance from certain program is likely eligible for assistance in another. It is true that there are too many duplicative programs but the total benefits provided by all of them if delivered efficiently in the most effective way probably do not begin to meet the needs that are out there. Identifying and connecting low-income individuals to the services for which they are eligible allows the organization to work in a cost-efficient manner, while also dramatically improving the outcomes of those individuals who are to receive benefits and our economy in the process. I think this is particularly relevant to the current attention on the delivery of food assistance through the SNAP program. A report released recently by the U.S. Department of Agriculture found that SNAP benefits helped to reduce national poverty in a significant way. These benefits played an important role in providing critical assistance that I saw recently in at the food bank in the Westside of San Antonio. Mr. Chairman, I look forward to hearing from today’s witnesses and continuing our work together to improve the outreach, the efficiency, and the effectiveness of these vital public initiatives through the use of technology. Thank you so much.
04.18.2012	April 18, 2012 Washington--Today in a meeting of the Ways and Means Committee, Republicans put forward legislation to permanently eliminate the Social Services Block Grant program, jeopardizing vital support for children, the elderly and the disabled to help pay for tax cuts for the wealthy. Rep. Doggett, a senior member of the Committee, delivered the following remarks:
04.18.2012	April 18, 2012 Washington--Today in a meeting of the Ways and Means Committee, Republicans put forward legislation to permanently eliminate the Social Services Block Grant program, jeopardizing vital support for children, the elderly and the disabled to help pay for tax cuts for the wealthy. Rep. Doggett, a senior member of the Committee, delivered the following remarks:
03.22.2012	March 21, 2012 Washington-- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett joined with his colleague Rep. Marcy Kaptur to invest in a new program to get returning veterans back to work. "We have made substantial progress in reducing the number of unemployed among our veterans. But as I travel across places like Bexar County, I see at a VFW Post, at a community gathering too many veterans who still have much to give but cannot find the job to give it." You can watch his full remarks here:
03.22.2012	March 21, 2012 Washington-- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett joined with his colleague Rep. Marcy Kaptur to invest in a new program to get returning veterans back to work. "We have made substantial progress in reducing the number of unemployed among our veterans. But as I travel across places like Bexar County, I see at a VFW Post, at a community gathering too many veterans who still have much to give but cannot find the job to give it." You can watch his full remarks here:
03.22.2012	March 21, 2012 Washington-- Today, during Budget Committee review of the Republican's newly unveiled budget, Rep. Doggett discussed the benefits that the Affordable Care Act is already providing seniors. "This Republican proposal would finance massive tax cuts for the wealthiest few individuals and corporations by cutting benefits and increasing costs for seniors on Medicare. The plan would mean the end of free Medicare preventive care, forcing seniors to pay new fees for everything from cancer screenings, to diabetes testing and routine check-ups, and an end to discounts on prescription drugs in the 'donut hole' coverage gap that has already saved more than 5 million seniors over $3.2 billion. I will continue working to ensure that seniors have access to good, affordable coverage through Medicare," Doggett said. You can watch his full remarks below:
03.22.2012	March 21, 2012 Washington-- Today, during Budget Committee review of the Republican's newly unveiled budget, Rep. Doggett discussed the benefits that the Affordable Care Act is already providing seniors. "This Republican proposal would finance massive tax cuts for the wealthiest few individuals and corporations by cutting benefits and increasing costs for seniors on Medicare. The plan would mean the end of free Medicare preventive care, forcing seniors to pay new fees for everything from cancer screenings, to diabetes testing and routine check-ups, and an end to discounts on prescription drugs in the 'donut hole' coverage gap that has already saved more than 5 million seniors over $3.2 billion. I will continue working to ensure that seniors have access to good, affordable coverage through Medicare," Doggett said. You can watch his full remarks below:
03.22.2012	March 21, 2012 Washington-- Today during Budget Committee review of Republican's newly unveiled budget, Rep. Doggett said, "Seniors today have the peace of mind of knowing that when they get sick, Medicare will be there. Republicans are once again advancing a proposal that would replace the guaranteed benefits of Medicare with a voucher system that would shift more of the burden of rising health care costs from the federal government to seniors themselves. I reject this step backward. We need to strengthen Medicare, not weaken it." You can watch his full remarks below:
03.22.2012	March 21, 2012 Washington-- Today during Budget Committee review of Republican's newly unveiled budget, Rep. Doggett said, "Seniors today have the peace of mind of knowing that when they get sick, Medicare will be there. Republicans are once again advancing a proposal that would replace the guaranteed benefits of Medicare with a voucher system that would shift more of the burden of rising health care costs from the federal government to seniors themselves. I reject this step backward. We need to strengthen Medicare, not weaken it." You can watch his full remarks below:
03.07.2012	Assistant Fire Chief Len Nored was pleased to hear news of the funding. “By temporarily taking control of a traffic light system so emergency vehicles can proceed safely through an intersection with a green light instead of having to run a red light, traffic preemption technology will provide two essential outcomes… preventing accidents and reducing emergency response times,” he said. The SMFD has worked closely with the City’s Transportation Division Manager to identify targeted intersections and to select a Traffic Preemption System that is compatible with the City’s existing traffic signal control hardware. City staff will oversee installation of traffic preemption hardware and software.The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program is an important component of the larger, coordinated effort to strengthen the Nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire and related hazards. These funds have helped fire departments across the country obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training. ###
02.29.2012	February 29, 2012 Washington-- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett questioned Ambassador Ron Kirk on the importance of ensuring respect for workers' rights in any trade agreement, including one being discussed with Vietnam, a nation that has frequently failed to meet international standards.
02.29.2012	February 29, 2012 Washington-- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett questioned Ambassador Ron Kirk on the importance of ensuring respect for workers' rights in any trade agreement, including one being discussed with Vietnam, a nation that has frequently failed to meet international standards.
02.27.2012	February 27, 2012 Washington-- Today, Rep. Lloyd Doggett questioned Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius on ensuring Texas receives the benefits of health reform."Governor Perry is doing everything he can to block health reform, even though his own officials testified this week that full implementation of the law would increase the percentage of Texans with health insurance from 74% to 91%," Rep. Doggett said.
02.27.2012	February 27, 2012 Washington-- Today, Rep. Lloyd Doggett questioned Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius on ensuring Texas receives the benefits of health reform."Governor Perry is doing everything he can to block health reform, even though his own officials testified this week that full implementation of the law would increase the percentage of Texans with health insurance from 74% to 91%," Rep. Doggett said.
01.18.2012	Over on Ars Technica, Eric Goldman has a solid explanation of why OPEN is a better starting point than SOPA: Unlike SOPA's disgustingly blatant rent-seeking, which was such an over-the-top abuse of the legislative process that it did not (and could not) support a principled or even intelligent conversations about it, OPEN provides a useful starting point for a sensible conversation that could actually lead to acceptable compromises. (snip) OPEN is a comparatively svelte 18 pages focused mostly on one core concept, compared to SOPA's 78-page monstrosity that advanced about a dozen different substantive proposals. I can't tell you the number of times I've seen very smart people stymied to keep all of SOPA's moving parts separate, and the failure to do so meant that they were conflating different parts of the statute in ways that prevented productive discussion. Go read the rest here, and thanks again to Congressman Doggett for opposing SOPA.
01.09.2012	January 9, 2012 Standing outside in the snow in front of the U.S. Supreme Court, Rep. Lloyd Doggett reacted to today’s oral argument as follows:I am hopeful. While the final district boundaries remain uncertain, I am prepared to seek reelection in whichever district contains the largest number of those I now represent. Ultimately, I believe that the courts will reject Governor Perry’s divisive scheme. Meanwhile, I will continue working actively in San Antonio, Austin, and the entire IH-35 corridor. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"> The election may very well be postponed beyond April 3, but the most important consideration is that these districts be drawn consistent with the principles of the Voting Rights Act. There was no indication in this case that the Court was questioning the constitutionality of the Voting Rights Act. Next up, is the redistricting trial in Washington, which begins next Tuesday, in a three-judge court that has already strongly rejected the State’s motion for summary judgment. You can view the entire argument here: https://www.supremecourt.gov/oral_arguments/argument_transcripts/11-713.pdf
12.21.2011	If insurers fail to comply with these standards, they must provide rebates to policyholders. If the State request is granted, <?xml:namespace prefix = st1> Texas families will lose more than $260 million in rebates anticipated to be paid out over the next three years. That is an average loss of $350 for each Texan covered by individual health insurance.<?xml:namespace prefix = o> “Texas Department of Insurance’s unjustified request is nothing more than an early Christmas gift from Governor Perry’s allies to insurance companies. Texas families deserve to get at least 80 cents of every premium dollar used for whatever health care they require. 20 cents of every dollar should be more than enough for overhead, profit, and filling the silk stockings with executive bonuses,” said Rep. Doggett. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"> [Their letter follows below] December 21, 2011 The Honorable Kathleen Sebelius <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags"> U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, DC 20201 Re: Texas Medical Loss Ratio Adjustment Request Dear Secretary Sebelius: We write to express our hope that you will deny Texas Department of Insurance’s (DOI) request to delay full implementation of the new medical loss ratio (MLR) rules, and ensure that Texans are not denied the full benefits of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Once again, some in Texas are more interested in protecting insurance companies than protecting consumers. Granting this request would be a tremendous mistake and increase the cost of health care to consumers. One of the successes in our health insurance reform efforts is that starting in 2011, the ACA requires insurance companies to spend at least 80 percent of premium dollars on health care services and quality improvements, rather than on overhead, marketing, advertising, or bonuses. If insurers fail to comply with these standards, they must provide rebates to policyholders. This important provision of the ACA makes crucial strides toward holding insurance companies accountable for how they spend consumers’ premium dollars and places downward pressure on insurance premiums. Insurance companies do not want this accountability and the Texas DOI is intent on helping them evade it. If the Texas request is granted, hard working Texas families will lose more than $260 million in rebates anticipated to be paid out over the next three years. That is an average loss of $350 for each Texan covered by individual health insurance. Not only is this bad policy, but Texas has failed to satisfy the standard required to obtain an exemption. HHS can only grant a state an exemption from the MLR rules if the state demonstrates a reasonable likelihood that the requirement may destabilize the individual health insurance market in the state. However, there is no evidence that these consumer protections would result in a destabilized market in Texas, or that insurance providers would leave the state. In fact, the Texas Department of Insurance surveyed insurers and found that those covering more than 90% of the Texas market intend to stay in Texas regardless of whether this waiver is granted. Only two surveyed insurers indicated an intention to leave, and together they cover just 0.68% of the market. As we move forward with implementation of the health insurance reform in Texas, retaining important protections for consumers is vital for the law to succeed. The MLR requirement is an important consumer protection to reduce premium cost and ensure the quality of care. If health insurance companies in Texas are allowed to maintain lower MLRs than are required under law, Texas consumers will pay a steep price. Please deny this transparent request to put insurance company profits over patients. ###
12.20.2011	"In a column on December 8, Congressman Doggett made the case for extending federal unemployment insurance (UI). These benefits provide Americans up to 73 weeks of additional UI, averaging about $300 a week per person. About 2 million Americans will lose this protection in January and about 6 million over the course of the year if Congress doesn’t act. "PolitiFact checked only one of Congressman Doggett’s arguments: For every dollar we spend on UI we get more back in economic activity. Congressman Doggett didn’t claim a precise number, but quoted Mark Zandi, a leading mainstream economist and former advisor to the McCain for President Campaign, who had estimated that for every $1 we spend on unemployment insurance benefits, we get $1.61 in economic activity back. It turns out Zandi has revised his estimate to $1.55, which is still a lot of bang for the buck. Congressman Doggett also noted a study commissioned by the U.S. Department of Labor during President Bush’s Administration that found that for every $1.00 spent on UI there were $2.00 in economic activity. PolitiFact notes that not all economists agree (citing libertarian and right-wing economist), and that the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office gives a range for the possible economic impact. But PolitiFact fails to tell you that the CBO comes down on the side of Congressman Doggett, concluding: "Households receiving unemployment benefits tend to spend the additional benefits quickly, making this option both timely and cost-effective in spurring demand for goods and services, and thereby economic activity and employment." In fact, the CBO lists extending UI as the top policy option for growing the economy and creating jobs. "Right now America has more workers than jobs. Unemployment Insurance—which goes only to those who lost a job through no fault of their own and who are actively looking or training for new work—is critical protection for our families and our communities. Congress should extend UI benefits for 2012. And you can rate that Really Most Sincerely True." Contact: Brian Stephens 512-320-0222, ext 112 stephens@cppp.org
12.15.2011	December 15, 2011 Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett delivered the following speech on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of the extension of the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program. While he expressed his support, he also indicated he was highly concerned about the bill's failure to extend the TANF Supplemental Grant program.
12.15.2011	December 15, 2011 Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett delivered the following speech on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of the extension of the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program. While he expressed his support, he also indicated he was highly concerned about the bill's failure to extend the TANF Supplemental Grant program.
12.14.2011	December 14, 2011 Washington-- Today, at a Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee hearing, Rep. Lloyd Doggett discussed an amendment he authored to ensure that taxpayer dollars are not used to promote the sale or export of deadly tobacco products. You can view his questions to the Administration witness below:
12.14.2011	December 14, 2011 Washington-- Today, at a Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee hearing, Rep. Lloyd Doggett discussed an amendment he authored to ensure that taxpayer dollars are not used to promote the sale or export of deadly tobacco products. You can view his questions to the Administration witness below:
12.14.2011	December 14, 2011 Washington-- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, discussed the need for better labor standards in Pacific trade during a Trade Subcommittee hearing. You can view Rep. Doggett's questions to the Administration witness below:
12.14.2011	December 14, 2011 Washington-- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, discussed the need for better labor standards in Pacific trade during a Trade Subcommittee hearing. You can view Rep. Doggett's questions to the Administration witness below:
12.13.2011	December 13, 2011 Washington-- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett delivered the following remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives about the Republicans' year-end proposal. You can watch Rep. Doggett's remarks below:
12.13.2011	December 13, 2011 Washington-- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett delivered the following remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives about the Republicans' year-end proposal. You can watch Rep. Doggett's remarks below:
12.13.2011	Judge Darlene Byrne, Judge for the 126th District, has seen many of these cases up-close in her courtroom. “Childhood should be a time of innocence and freedom, but it is a sad fact that many children are vulnerable to injury and abuse,” she said. “Our nation’s children need good leaders to stand up at a national level and find creative ways to protect them from harm. The creation of a National Commission to End Child Fatalities is an important step in this direction. I applaud Congressman Doggett for his support of this legislation and his leadership to help protect children from tragic outcomes.”As recently noted in the Texas Tribune, more children are living in poverty than ever in Texas. About 1.7 million Texas children — 26 percent of the total population — live below the federal poverty level, according to United States census data released [recently]. And experts speculate that a key factor in the increase in reports of child abuse and neglect is the struggling economy; the number of reported cases of abuse has gone up 6 percent in Texas since 2008, before the recession. In Travis County, the number of new cases opened with Child Protective Services rose 36 percent from 2008 to 2011. Dr. Jane Burstain, a senior policy analyst at the Center for Public Policy Priorities, has said there is only funding for about 6,000 children in Texas to receive direct child abuse and neglect prevention services. Budgets are so tight that states are even cutting services to children who have been subjected to abuse and neglect. In 2009, in some states, 2 of every 3 children who are child abuse and neglect victims stayed in their home and did not receive any ongoing child welfare family support services. “As families struggle and stress levels rise, child maltreatment becomes more of a risk,” she said. “The great recession has pushed more families into poverty. As compared to 2008, the number and percentage of children living in poverty has increased nationwide in virtually every state. If we want to reduce child maltreatment, now is not the time to cut support to struggling families. If we make that choice, our children will pay for it with our lives.”Specifically, Rep. Doggett’s bill would: Require the President to appoint between 12 and 15 individuals to a Commission that would make recommendations for reducing child fatalities that result from abuse and neglect. Commission members would need to have experience in one or more of a wide range of areas related to child well-being and development, including child welfare administration and advocacy, the medical field, law enforcement, education, and the legal field. Require the Commission to develop recommendations for Federal, State, and local agencies, as well as private sector and non-profit organizations. The issues studied by the group include a number of topics that would seek to reduce the incidence of child abuse and neglect, prevent fatalities due to maltreatment, review the feasibility of establishing a method that accurately records the number of child fatalities due to abuse and neglect, and improve the effectiveness of public agencies (e.g., health care, child protective services, education, and law enforcement) in reducing child maltreatment and fatalities. Require that recommendations must be submitted no later than three years after the enactment of the legislation creating the Commission, although the President would have the option to extend the Commission by one additional year. Authorize $2 million for the next three fiscal years for the Commission to meet its administrative costs and expenses associated with fulfilling its duties. Any sums appropriated would remain available until they are expended.Who supports this legislation? The legislation has been endorsed by National Coalition to End Child Abuse Deaths; Child Welfare League of America (CWLA); National Children’s Alliance; National Association of Social Workers; National District Attorney’s Association; Every Child Matters Education Fund; National Center for the Review and Prevention of Child Deaths; American Professional Society for the Abuse of Children; National Child Protection Training Center; Children’s Advocacy Institute; First Star; The Center for Public Policy Priorities; Prevent Child Abuse America; National Child Abuse Coalition; Massachusetts Citizens for Children. Rep. Lloyd Doggett serves as a senior member on the Ways and Means Committee and the Budget Committee. He is ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Human Resources, which has jurisdiction over issues that relate to child care, child and family services, child support, foster care, adoption, and unemployment compensation. He was re-elected to serve a second two-year term as Chairman of the Texas Democratic delegation.
12.12.2011	During the Vietnam War, more than 20 million gallons of the herbicide “Agent Orange” was sprayed to remove jungle foliage. A toxic chemical in the herbicide called dioxin was linked to devastating health effects, including non-Hodgkins Lymphoma, prostate and other cancers, Type II Diabetes, and Parkinson’s disease. In 1991, legislation was enacted that empowered the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to declare certain illnesses “presumptive” to exposure to Agent Orange and enabled Vietnam veterans to receive disability compensation for these related conditions. However, in 2002, the VA limited the scope of the Act to only those veterans who could provide orders for “boots on the ground” in Vietnam. Boots on the ground encompassed infantry and the riverine navy. As a result, veterans who served in the waters off the coast of Vietnam, commonly called “blue water veterans,” were forced to file individual claims with the VA to restore their benefits, which are then decided on a case-by-case basis. The VA has denied 32,880 such claims through 2009.A May 2011 report issued by the Institute of Medicine concluded that plausible routes of exposure to Agent Orange exist for blue water veterans. Presumptive coverage lifts the burden from the individual veteran to prove direct exposure to Agent Orange - a nearly impossible task due to a lack of record keeping and the inability to know the precise location of dioxins in the air and groundwater runoff - and extends the same presumption that currently exists for veterans who served on land and inland waterways. It would also reduce backlogged VA claims by automatically covering claims for disability compensation from these veterans who are suffering from diseases that the U.S. government has linked to Agent Orange.“Without question, we must do everything we can to ensure that our nation’s veterans receive the benefits they earned serving our nation. This responsibility is even more profound when the illnesses from which they are suffering are linked directly to their service,” said Congressman Gibson. “I have personally met with constituents who have had to fight with the VA to try and receive coverage for some truly debilitating conditions and diseases. I believe as a nation we can do better, and I am proud to join with my colleagues in the House and the Senator from New York in this effort.”“When our warriors return home, they should always be given the benefit of the doubt, and we have an obligation to ensure that they receive the care and benefits they earned. This legislation is our opportunity to right a wrong and will ensure we fulfill the moral responsibility we owe to the men and women who have served this country,” said Congressman Walz. “When these soldiers took their oaths of service, they were willing to make the ultimate sacrifice for their country in the defense of freedom,” said Congressman Rehberg. “The very least we can do for them in appreciation for their service and sacrifice is to acknowledge their suffering so we can get them the medical treatment they need.” The legislation was referred to the House Committee on Veterans Affairs.
11.23.2011	November 23. 2011 AUSTIN, TX –Dangerous or toxic toys can still be found on America’s store shelves, according to the Texas Public Interest Research Group’s (TexPIRG’s) 26th annual Trouble in Toyland report. TexPIRG, joined by Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX25) and Tareka Wheeler, program coordinator of Safe Kids Austin, led by Dell Children’s Medical Center, released the report at Escuelita del Alma in Austin, TX. The report reveals the results of laboratory testing on toys for lead and phthalates, both of which have been proven to have serious adverse health impacts on the development of young children. The survey also found toys that pose either choking or noise hazards.Watch KVUE News' report here:
11.15.2011	November 15, 2011 Austin-- On Veteran's Day, Rep. Doggett joined teachers at Eastside Memorial High School in Austin to praise the good work they are doing in the face of uncertainty and change that has become commonplace in Texas schools in the wake of about $4 billion in the State Legislature's budget cuts.
11.15.2011	“Small businesses create two thirds of all new jobs and we need to be working to help entrepreneurs create the 21st century jobs of the future,” said Rep. Gary Peters. “Fostering innovation in our communities today will help our economy grow out of these tough economic times. Winston Churchill once said that 'an optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty' and it's in this spirit that the STARTUP Act was written to help the unemployed become the self-employed.”The Startup Technical Assistance for Reemployment Training and Unemployment Prevention (STARTUP) Act would encourage states to offer self-employment assistance by: allowing the long-term unemployed, who remain eligible for unemployment benefits, to draw down those benefits in the form of self-employment assistance; providing technical assistance and model language from the U.S. Department of Labor for states that create new self-employment programs; and providing financial assistance to aid states in establishing, implementing, improving and/or administering self-employment programs. Currently, only seven states—Delaware, Maine, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, Oregon, and Pennsylvania offer self-employment insurance. U.S. Senators Ron Wyden, Tom Carper, and Bob Casey have introduced companion legislation in the Senate.A U.S. Department of Labor study found that self-employment assistance participants were 19 times more likely than eligible non-participants to become self-employed. Moreover, they were four times more likely to find a job of any kind. Despite widespread support for self-employment and entrepreneurial programs, only seven states offer self-employment assistance. Though states can currently take advantage of self-employment assistance, administrative costs and costs related to entrepreneurial training are often prohibitive. Furthermore, because federal law prevents self-employment benefits from being paid out while an individual is receiving benefits from either the Extended Unemployment Compensation (EUC08) or Extended Benefit (EB) programs, the long-term unemployed cannot take advantage of the program.
11.14.2011	This new law, co-authored by Rep. Doggett, provides assistance to at-risk families, youth and foster children by improving and extending key child welfare programs. It extends the Promoting Safe and Stable Families and Child Welfare Services programs, and reauthorizes the Department of Health and Human Services to allow states to use federal foster care funds to test innovative, new child welfare programs. VFA was particularly pleased with two provisions in this new law that ensure foster children have access to stable school environment each time they are in foster care and that States clearly document how they are reinvesting funds into child welfare services, including post-adoption services. The National Coalition for Child Protection Reform called this Legislation “the biggest change for the better in federal child welfare law in 31 years.” “Sadly, today in America, 40% of children found to be victims of abuse and neglect do not receive any follow-up or intervention. Less than half of the children in foster care receive federal assistance to help with their room and board. Unless more is done over coming years, this gap will only widen,” said Rep. Doggett. “While I believe this legislation took several worthy steps toward better protecting some of our most vulnerable children, it is going to take a much bigger and better response in the future. I welcome families and advocacy groups, who are willing to work together to keep kids safe and families together.” Just a few weeks ago, Rep. Doggett was also named Public Elected Official of the Year by the National Association of Social Workers Texas for his work to advance the cause of social justice for working Texas families through his commitment to health care, public and higher education, civil and human rights, and social practice, in addition to his work as Ranking Member of the Human Resources Subcommittee. You can view the remarks he made to the audience by clicking here. ###
11.07.2011	The purpose of the test is to assess how well the EAS can alert the public during certain national emergencies. Although the FCC and FEMA are taking steps to ensure that everyone has access to announcements made during the test, some people watching cable television (as well as some others) may receive only an audio (not a visual) notice that this is a test. The FCC and FEMA want to make consumers aware of the test so that they understand that this is only a test and that there is no real emergency. What is the EAS? EAS alerts are sent over the radio or television (broadcast, cable and satellite). State and local emergency managers use these alerts to notify the public about emergencies and weather events, such as tornadoes and hurricanes. The EAS can also be used to send an alert across the United States if there is a national emergency. It is common for state and local EAS tests to occur on a monthly and weekly basis, respectively, but there has never been a test of the nationwide EAS alert on all broadcast, cable and satellite radio and television systems at the same time. The November 9th test will help ensure that the EAS will work if public safety officials ever need to send an alert or warning to the entire country or to a large region of the United States. What will be different about this EAS test? The nationwide EAS test on November 9th may be similar to other EAS tests that you have seen. Such tests include an audio EAS tone and a message indicating that “This is a test of the Emergency Alert System.” Due to technical limitations, a visual message indicating that “this is a test” may not appear on every television channel, especially for cable subscribers. For these reasons, the FCC and FEMA are taking extra steps to educate the public, especially people with hearing disabilities, that this is only a test.
10.27.2011	October 27, 2011 Washington-- Ranking Member Doggett questioned witnesses, including Jonathan M. Stein of Community Legal Services of Philadelphia about exactly how damaging it could be to families with disabled children if we were to cut their SSI benefits.
10.27.2011	“Mr. Chairman, the objective that you mention in your opening statement of helping families deal with these great challenges that they encounter with a child, or children, with disabilities is a shared goal that we have. I also welcome efforts to ensure the effective and efficient administration of the Supplemental Security Income – or SSI – program. This is a goal that we share. It is one of the reasons that Mr. Neal and others joined to ask the Government Accountability Office to take a look at the reports that were raised by this Boston Globe Study. <?xml:namespace prefix = o> <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"> “During the ongoing debate about extending jobless benefits, we have heard Republicans blame the unemployed for unemployment. I hope we are not now going to hear Republicans blame disabled children for their disability. “SSI benefits are available to help low-income families with children who suffer from severe physical or mental disabilities or blindness to meet their basic needs. Only about one tenth of children with disabilities receive SSI, and the benefits – about $600 a month on average for families with little or no income – are modest. These benefits help offset the cost of caring for severely disabled children, as well as the impact of lost wages felt by parents addressing their child’s difficult impairments. “SSI is particularly important in my home State of <?xml:namespace prefix = st1> Texas, which has more poor disabled children – about 130,000 – receiving these benefits than any other State in the nation. “Two such children live that near where I do in Central Texas—in Elgin, Texas— are Tyler and Noah Roberts– precious 5-year old twins. When you look at their photo, you see two very beautiful little boys. But they are little boys who have severe autism – one is nonverbal and engages in behaviors like flapping his arms, spinning, and throwing tantrums; the other is verbal but has severe anxiety, intestinal problems, and sensory problems. These serious conditions that have greatly impeded their mother’s ability to maintain a regular work schedule, and she therefore depends on SSI to keep food on the table and a roof over her children’s heads. “I have seen situations just like this in the work that my wife has done. Before I came to Congress, she headed an early intervention program working with infants and very young children who had severe disabilities across the Texas Hill Country. This is not an isolated case. It is an example of the challenges that families face that we need to be assisting them with, not blaming them. “There has been some growth in the SSI program since 2001 -- largely in response to the growing number of children living in poverty. But just because more families like the Roberts are receiving SSI benefits, to help raise children with autism and other significant medical conditions, doesn’t mean they should be targeted for cuts. “During the last decade, almost five million more children have fallen below the poverty line. One could reasonably assume that this increase would have an impact on a program designed to help low-income families with disabled children. While we may hear suggestions that the program has changed, the Congressional Research Service concludes that the rate of children on SSI as a percentage of children living in poverty (7.5%) was the same in 2010 as it was in 2001. “Furthermore, we have increased efforts to identify childhood disabilities. The Center for Economic and Policy Research found that the number of children receiving screening and diagnostic services under Medicaid rose from 5.8 million children in 1998 to 20.8 million children in 2008. “Nevertheless, there has not been an increase in SSI approval rates for children with mental impairments. According to the Social Security Administration, the percentage of approved SSI applications for all mental impairments dropped from nearly 48% in 2001 to just over 44% in 2010. The allowance rate for some mental conditions, including Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder or ADHD, is even lower. “There are a number of steps we can take to improve the administration of the SSI program. First, Congress needs to make good on its pledge to provide adequate resources to conduct continuing disability reviews to ensure that SSI recipients maintain their eligibility for benefits. The Obama Administration has nearly doubled the number of these reviews compared to President Bush’s final year in office, but we need to make more progress. “Second, if we are serious about improving outcomes for children receiving SSI, I look forward to discussing other supports we can offer families struggling with disabled children and how we can help increase educational and employment opportunities for disabled children as get they older. “Finally, while an analysis by the Social Security Administration did not find any connection between a child’s medication status and his or her eligibility for SSI based on a diagnosis of ADHD, I understand that GAO is continuing to study this issue. The Social Security Administration has stated that a child’s use of medication – or lack of medication – is not determinative of disability. But it may useful for the agency to ensure all parents are aware of that fact by conducting an outreach campaign to highlight the fact that medication is never the sole factor in determining SSI eligibility. “We are joined today by Mrs. Katie Bentley and her son, Will, an amazing young man who receives SSI. They are accompanying Jonathan Stein, who will testify very shortly. Despite the severe physical and mental impairments Will faces, Mrs. Bentley and her husband were reluctant to apply for SSI benefits because they wanted to support Will on their own. However, after Mrs. Bentley had to close her business to care for Will, the financial burden became too great for their family. “Since Will began receiving benefits, his outcomes have improved remarkably. According to Mrs. Bentley, “The life-altering value of SSI is worth so much more than its monetary value – it is truly priceless.” Without SSI, Will and other severely disabled children would not get the help they need to afford medical appointments and other therapies that improve their outcomes and allow them to live with dignity. “Mr. Chairman, We can all agree on the need to improve and strengthen SSI outcomes, and I look forward to working on common-sense reforms. But we should reject any direct cuts in assistance to disabled children in the name of helping them. However great our nation’s fiscal challenges, we must not balance our budget on the backs of poor disabled children.” # # #
10.27.2011	“Mr. Chairman, the objective that you mention in your opening statement of helping families deal with these great challenges that they encounter with a child, or children, with disabilities is a shared goal that we have. I also welcome efforts to ensure the effective and efficient administration of the Supplemental Security Income – or SSI – program. This is a goal that we share. It is one of the reasons that Mr. Neal and others joined to ask the Government Accountability Office to take a look at the reports that were raised by this Boston Globe Study. <?xml:namespace prefix = o> <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"> “During the ongoing debate about extending jobless benefits, we have heard Republicans blame the unemployed for unemployment. I hope we are not now going to hear Republicans blame disabled children for their disability. “SSI benefits are available to help low-income families with children who suffer from severe physical or mental disabilities or blindness to meet their basic needs. Only about one tenth of children with disabilities receive SSI, and the benefits – about $600 a month on average for families with little or no income – are modest. These benefits help offset the cost of caring for severely disabled children, as well as the impact of lost wages felt by parents addressing their child’s difficult impairments. “SSI is particularly important in my home State of <?xml:namespace prefix = st1> Texas, which has more poor disabled children – about 130,000 – receiving these benefits than any other State in the nation. “Two such children live that near where I do in Central Texas—in Elgin, Texas— are Tyler and Noah Roberts– precious 5-year old twins. When you look at their photo, you see two very beautiful little boys. But they are little boys who have severe autism – one is nonverbal and engages in behaviors like flapping his arms, spinning, and throwing tantrums; the other is verbal but has severe anxiety, intestinal problems, and sensory problems. These serious conditions that have greatly impeded their mother’s ability to maintain a regular work schedule, and she therefore depends on SSI to keep food on the table and a roof over her children’s heads. “I have seen situations just like this in the work that my wife has done. Before I came to Congress, she headed an early intervention program working with infants and very young children who had severe disabilities across the Texas Hill Country. This is not an isolated case. It is an example of the challenges that families face that we need to be assisting them with, not blaming them. “There has been some growth in the SSI program since 2001 -- largely in response to the growing number of children living in poverty. But just because more families like the Roberts are receiving SSI benefits, to help raise children with autism and other significant medical conditions, doesn’t mean they should be targeted for cuts. “During the last decade, almost five million more children have fallen below the poverty line. One could reasonably assume that this increase would have an impact on a program designed to help low-income families with disabled children. While we may hear suggestions that the program has changed, the Congressional Research Service concludes that the rate of children on SSI as a percentage of children living in poverty (7.5%) was the same in 2010 as it was in 2001. “Furthermore, we have increased efforts to identify childhood disabilities. The Center for Economic and Policy Research found that the number of children receiving screening and diagnostic services under Medicaid rose from 5.8 million children in 1998 to 20.8 million children in 2008. “Nevertheless, there has not been an increase in SSI approval rates for children with mental impairments. According to the Social Security Administration, the percentage of approved SSI applications for all mental impairments dropped from nearly 48% in 2001 to just over 44% in 2010. The allowance rate for some mental conditions, including Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder or ADHD, is even lower. “There are a number of steps we can take to improve the administration of the SSI program. First, Congress needs to make good on its pledge to provide adequate resources to conduct continuing disability reviews to ensure that SSI recipients maintain their eligibility for benefits. The Obama Administration has nearly doubled the number of these reviews compared to President Bush’s final year in office, but we need to make more progress. “Second, if we are serious about improving outcomes for children receiving SSI, I look forward to discussing other supports we can offer families struggling with disabled children and how we can help increase educational and employment opportunities for disabled children as get they older. “Finally, while an analysis by the Social Security Administration did not find any connection between a child’s medication status and his or her eligibility for SSI based on a diagnosis of ADHD, I understand that GAO is continuing to study this issue. The Social Security Administration has stated that a child’s use of medication – or lack of medication – is not determinative of disability. But it may useful for the agency to ensure all parents are aware of that fact by conducting an outreach campaign to highlight the fact that medication is never the sole factor in determining SSI eligibility. “We are joined today by Mrs. Katie Bentley and her son, Will, an amazing young man who receives SSI. They are accompanying Jonathan Stein, who will testify very shortly. Despite the severe physical and mental impairments Will faces, Mrs. Bentley and her husband were reluctant to apply for SSI benefits because they wanted to support Will on their own. However, after Mrs. Bentley had to close her business to care for Will, the financial burden became too great for their family. “Since Will began receiving benefits, his outcomes have improved remarkably. According to Mrs. Bentley, “The life-altering value of SSI is worth so much more than its monetary value – it is truly priceless.” Without SSI, Will and other severely disabled children would not get the help they need to afford medical appointments and other therapies that improve their outcomes and allow them to live with dignity. “Mr. Chairman, We can all agree on the need to improve and strengthen SSI outcomes, and I look forward to working on common-sense reforms. But we should reject any direct cuts in assistance to disabled children in the name of helping them. However great our nation’s fiscal challenges, we must not balance our budget on the backs of poor disabled children.” # # #
10.26.2011	October 26, 2011 Washington—Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, issued the following statement in response to Chairman Dave Camp’s (R-MI) legislation that would change how the United States taxes overseas profits of U.S. companies into a territorial tax system. Rep. Doggett has been a vocal advocate for closing tax loopholes that allow large corporations to avoid paying their fair share. He has previously introduced the Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act, which would curb abuses of the international tax laws that cost taxpayers tens of billions of dollars a year. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"> “While Halloween approaches, no matter how you dress up this proposal, a territorial tax system is about shipping more jobs and profits to another country’s territory. It encourages U.S. multinational corporations to expand abroad rather than at home. Multinationals would be asked to contribute even less to paying for our national security and reducing our budget deficit, while shifting even more of the tax burden to small businesses and individual families. The last tax holiday giveaway in 2004 failed to create jobs; this costly approach will actually eliminate jobs. Instead, we should be closing tax loopholes asking the corporation that owns the boardroom to pay at lest the tax rate of the person who cleans the boardroom.” said Rep. Doggett.
10.20.2011	Local Organizations Collaborating in Times of Crisis. For those living in Travis County, the Austin Police Department and the Austin/Travis County Family Violence Protection Team work day in and day out to put and end to domestic violence, describing themselves as a “collaborative, community response to family violence that provides multiple services at one location.” These men and women ensure not only that law enforcement gets involved in situations of family violence, but also that victims have the access they need to counseling, crisis management and legal services. Similarly, Austin SafePlace serves as a beacon of hope in Travis County—providing families with not only a place to stay if they need it, but also services designed to keep them out of harm’s way. I was pleased recently to announce $500,000 in federal funds for SafePlace to address obstacles women with disabilities have in accessing domestic violence and sexual assault services. These funds will help SafePlace continue their important work and make changes so that it can effectively reach more individuals who may face unique challenges in seeking help. Breaking the Cycle of Violence Takes Investment. The Texas Council on Family Violence conducted a statewide poll on the prevalence and attitudes toward domestic violence and found that alarmingly, 74 percent of all Texans have either themselves experienced some form of domestic violence in their lives, or have a family member or a friend that has. We can prevent this tragedy one life at a time by dedicating sufficient resources to the prevention of domestic violence. Together we must send a strong message to the survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault that we will work for change and we will settle for nothing less. By showing young people what it means to be in a healthy relationship and by working to change the attitudes and beliefs that have historically supported domestic violence, like through Austin SafePlace’s Expect Respect program, we can break the cycle of violence. Reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act Now. In September, we celebrated the 17th anniversary of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA)—landmark legislation that has made major strides in making America’s women more safe and secure and better ensuring the victims of violence get a voice and the services they need. Since the passage of VAWA, there is increased awareness and understanding about the specialized needs of victims and recognition that education and training are required to effectively handle domestic violence, sexual assault and stalking cases. The number of domestic violence shelters, rape crisis centers and comprehensive service programs has increased significantly since the bill was enacted. With domestic violence shelters, VAWA funds have strengthened women and their families by providing the resources they need to courageously leave their batterers. The Violence Against Women Act is up for reauthorization this year. I am hopeful we will extend this important law. Central Texas Hotline Making a Difference. VAWA also established the National Domestic Violence Hotline for victims to seek assistance. This hotline, which is based in Central Texas, has logged more than 1 million calls since it began in 1996. Hotline workers and volunteers have provided a helping hand with dignity and respect -- over and over. We must also work to give a voice to those who are suffering. It takes great strength of character to untangle oneself and one’s children from an abusive situation, and the Texas Council on Family Violence and its partner organizations recognize that strength, nurture it, and pass it along to those who still need help. They understand that “safe homes and safe families are the foundation of a safe society.” If you or someone you know is a victim of domestic violence, please call the National Domestic Violence Hotline at 1-800-799-7233 or Austin SafePlace at (512) 267-SAFE. U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett is a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee and the House Budget Committee. He is also Ranking Member of the Human Resources Subcommittee.
10.14.2011	“Black market cigarettes are robbing our coffers of a critical revenue source that we need to pay for vital domestic programs like health insurance for children,” said Senator Lautenberg. “By stopping the sale of illegal cigarettes at below-market prices, we can reduce smoking and fight tobacco-related diseases.” “This bill will help us crack down on tobacco smuggling and keep black market cigarettes out of the hands of kids,” Senator Durbin said. “At the same time, we’ll help the Federal government and states collect the taxes they’re owed on these products so they have the resources necessary to continue much needed tobacco prevention and other health programs. I hope we’re able to quickly move this bill to the floor.” The U.S. Department of Justice estimates that tobacco smuggling in the United States costs federal and state governments at least $5 billion in lost revenue annually. The STOP Act mandates that packages of tobacco products manufactured in or imported to the United States bear a unique, high-tech identification marking similar to that which the State of California is already using. In California, the first state to implement such a system, cigarette tax revenues have increased by an estimated $152 million per year. This requirement, along with increased permit and record-keeping requirements throughout the supply chain, will enable enforcement officials to distinguish real tax markings from even the most advanced counterfeits, identify who applied the marking and initially sold and purchased the product, and obtain other information useful for tracking, tracing, and enforcement purposes. These requirements will help states and the federal government increase their tobacco tax receipts without raising taxes. ###
10.13.2011	October 13, 2011 Austin-- Today, the Austin Chronicle announced it's 2011 "Best of Austin" list where readers again named Rep. Doggett "Best Elected Official." The article, which you can read by clicking here, says: "He's been our Steady Eddie in Congress for nearly 20 years, always rising to defend the values of Austin, Travis County, and his entire district, no matter how hard the Republicans have tried to take him out of the game. You can't keep a good man down." Austin Chronicle readers also named Lloyd Doggett as the "Best Elected Official for 2010," calling him "a constant presence at community events." 2011 was the sixth time that he has been so honored in a publication that noted in 2008 he serves “with distinction, courage, and forthrightness."
10.13.2011	October 13, 2011 Austin-- Today, the Austin Chronicle announced it's 2011 "Best of Austin" list where readers again named Rep. Doggett "Best Elected Official." The article, which you can read by clicking here, says: "He's been our Steady Eddie in Congress for nearly 20 years, always rising to defend the values of Austin, Travis County, and his entire district, no matter how hard the Republicans have tried to take him out of the game. You can't keep a good man down." Austin Chronicle readers also named Lloyd Doggett as the "Best Elected Official for 2010," calling him "a constant presence at community events." 2011 was the sixth time that he has been so honored in a publication that noted in 2008 he serves “with distinction, courage, and forthrightness."
10.13.2011	“Even though we are under assault on so many fronts, this is not the time to back down or back up. It’s more important than ever that those of us who care about social justice speak up, speak out and say to the naysayers that the way for our country to prosper isn’t by doing less for those with the least, it is by giving everyone the tools to be successful by supporting education for the young, health care for the sick, and assistance for our unemployed. I know that we will continue to be partners in that struggle. I’ll never give up or give in on our goal of a more just and equitable Texas and an even better America,” said Rep. Doggett. “Congressman Doggett seems to be a social worker at heart. He has long taken on the social justice issues that social workers struggle with daily in assisting their clients to achieve their potential, and enjoy as high a quality of life as possible. Congressman Doggett has not only taken on educational issues in Texas’ public schools, but for college students who are eligible for Federal Student Supports such as the PERKINS Loan Program. Congressman Doggett has taken on issues of health care reform, maintenance of Medicare and Social Security, veteran’s affairs issues, threatened cuts to legal aid, insurance company inequities, and the inequities of tax laws for large corporations, despite, and possibly because of, intense opposition from those with less concern about Texas’ and our nation’s neediest citizens,” said Jeanne Stamp, Board Region 7 Director, in her nomination letter. To read the full nomination packet, please click here. ###
10.11.2011	The manufactured housing units are part of a larger state/FEMA housing program that uses several resources to house eligible residents displaced by wildfires that occurred on or after Aug. 30. While rental homes and apartments are preferred, the temporary housing units will provide a short-term answer for some displaced Texans. The temporary units will be placed in areas where the demand for rental homes and apartments far outstrips the supply. Because of the extent of the destruction in Bastrop County, eligible survivors there are likely candidates for manufactured housing. Units will also be placed in other counties affected by wildfires as the need is identified, said the Texas Division of Emergency Management and FEMA. “Manufactured housing can be an excellent short-term solution for Texans driven from their homes by this disaster,” said Federal Coordinating Officer Kevin L. Hannes of FEMA. “While rental housing is the desired option, our goal is to ensure everyone has a safe place to live.” The units will be provided for up to 18 months from the Sept. 9 declaration date, in accordance with local directives, as the final option in areas with limited available rental housing. Two types of housing units are available. Park models are 12-by-34 feet, with two bedrooms and one bathroom. Mobile home models are 14-by-60 feet, with three bedrooms and one bathroom. Each version has a model that meets the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards for people with disabilities, such as lower light switches and sinks, wider hallways and other features required for accessibility. After arriving in Texas from Selma, Ala., and Baton Rouge, La., the units are inspected and prepared for occupancy. They are then moved to survivors’ property, if feasible, or pads in commercial mobile home parks in designated counties. The units come fully furnished and move-in ready, with a stove, refrigerator and a microwave oven. Furnishings include a dining set, living room set, beds and chests of drawers. The units are built to meet or surpass stringent safety and air quality specifications issued by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. All units, including furnishings and appliances, are new and built to quality and workmanship standards that are higher than those mandated by law. Each FEMA temporary housing unit has been tested and passed an indoor air quality test to verify compliance with air quality standards established by Texas. Safety features include interconnected smoke alarms, a NOAA Weather Radio and a fire extinguisher. The units will be made available to eligible registered survivors. Texans can register online at www.disasterassistance.gov, via web-enabled phone at m.fema.gov, or by calling 1-800-621-3362 or TTY 1-800-462-7585. Those who use 711-Relay or Video Relay Services can call 1-800-621-3362. FEMA phone lines are open 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. seven days a week, and multilingual operators are available. ### Disaster recovery assistance is available without regard to race, color, religion, nationality, sex, age, disability, English proficiency or economic status. If you or someone you know has been discriminated against, call FEMA toll-free at 800-621-FEMA (3362). For TTY call 800-462-7585. The mission of the Texas Division of Emergency Management, Texas Department of Public Safety, is to support the citizens of Texas and local jurisdictions as they plan for, respond to, recover from and mitigate the impacts of all hazards, emergencies and disasters. For more information, see: www.txdps.state.tx.us/dem. FEMA’s mission is to support our citizens and first responders to ensure that as a nation we work together to build, sustain, and improve our capability to prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate all hazards.
10.11.2011	CBO says similar bill would cost Social Security Administration $9 billion over 10 years to administer October 11, 2011 Washington—In a letter to their colleagues, Rep. Lloyd Doggett, Ranking Member of the Human Resources Subcommittee, and Rep. Charlie Gonzalez, Chairman of the House Hispanic Caucus, voiced their strong opposition to Rep. Lamar Smith’s attempt to make the Electronic Verification Program, or E-Verify, mandatory because of the undue burden it would place on retirees, widows, and people with a disability who rely on the Social Security Administration (SSA) at a time when the effects of Republican cuts to the SSA’s operating budget are just starting to become clear. They writes that while the Department of Homeland Security would administer E-Verify, SSA takes on the bulk of the verification responsibilities because it must individually verify the name, Social Security number, date of birth, and citizenship status of every worker in the country whose employer participates in E-Verify. In addition, the SSA must also assist workers with correcting their records when there are errors, an extremely time consuming process that often involves multiple in-person visits to SSA field offices. During a hearing in April, the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security found that after 2 years of Democratic investments in SSA’s operating budget, the average wait time for an initial disability determination was still more than 3 months, while the average wait time for a hearing was about 350 days. This means that in many cases disabled members of the community are waiting over a year before they have an opportunity to have their case heard before a judge. Now, with Republican budget cuts to the SSA’s operating budget beginning to take effect, wait times are already starting to climb again.“The E-Verify program as it exists today is far from satisfactory,” said Rep. Doggett. “To make this system mandatory for all businesses hiring new employees is a mistake and a costly one at that. SSA is already dealing with the impact of Republican budget cuts. To ask the SSA to bear the burden of administering this flawed program is a mistake that would cost our retirees, our widows, and folks living with disabilities dearly. We need comprehensive immigration reform—and this is far from it.” “At a time when Republicans are already imposing drastic cuts to Social Security Administration’s budget, our country cannot afford a mandatory flawed employer verification system that would require the Social Security Administration to spend most of their time and resources to perform background checks rather than helping America’s seniors, disabled, and others who depend on Social Security benefits for their health and well being,” said Rep. Gonzalez. In analyzing the budgetary impact of a bill similar to that of Rep. Smith, the Congressional Budget Office in 2008 determined that cost to the SAA of requiring verification of all employees would total nearly $9 billion over ten years. This would come at a time when SSA is already facing a $955 million shortfall in its administrative budget for FY2011, forcing it to institute a hiring freeze, reduce field office hours, close 300 field offices and contact stations, and suspend mailing annual earnings statements to workers. In addition, the SSA’s budget office has said that for every $25 million their FY2012 operating budget is reduced below its current level, they would be forced to furlough workers and close Social Security offices for a day, delaying the processing of approximately 19,000 retirement claims, 11,000 initial disability claims, and 3,000 hearings. [Full text of letter below] We write to bring to your attention strong concerns voiced by our friends at AARP regarding the excessive burden that would be imposed upon retirees, widows, and people with a disability who rely on the Social Security Administration (SSA), should the Electronic Employment Verification Program, also known as E-Verify, become mandatory as Rep. Lamar Smith is demanding. While the Department of Homeland Security administers E-Verify, SSA takes on the bulk of the verification responsibilities because it must individually verify the name, Social Security number, date of birth, and citizenship status of every worker in the country whose employer participates in E-Verify. In addition, the SSA must also assist workers with correcting their records when there are errors, an extremely time consuming process that often involves multiple in-person visits to SSA field offices. The current E-Verify system is voluntary and far from satisfactory. The new E-Verify legislation would make this system mandatory for all businesses hiring new employees. The Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security held a hearing last April aimed at identifying costs and collateral damage to Social Security if it were to be assigned this additional responsibility. The Committee found that after 2 years of Democratic investments in SSA’s operating budget, the average wait time for an initial disability determination was still more than 3 months, while the average wait time for a hearing was about 350 days. This means that in many cases disabled members of our community are waiting over a year before they have an opportunity to have their case heard before a judge. Now, with Republican budget cuts to the SSA’s operating budget beginning to take effect, wait times are already starting to climb again. In analyzing the budgetary impact of a bill similar to that of Mr. Smith, the Congressional Budget Office in 2008 determined that cost to the SAA of requiring verification of all employees would total nearly $9 billion over ten years. This would come at a time when SSA is already facing a $955 million shortfall in its administrative budget for FY2011, forcing it to institute a hiring freeze, reduce field office hours, close 300 field offices and contact stations, and suspend mailing annual earnings statements to workers. In addition, the SSA’s budget office has said that for every $25 million their FY2012 operating budget is reduced below its current level, they would be forced to furlough workers and close Social Security offices for a day, delaying the processing of approximately 19,000 retirement claims, 11,000 initial disability claims, and 3,000 hearings. We should avoid creating more delays for our seniors, the disabled, and many others who depend on Social Security. A mandatory E-Verify system would undoubtedly result in an increase in SSA’s already heavy administrative burden and create greater backlogs, further hindering SSA’s ability to fulfill its primary mission to serve retirees, widows, and those with disability. Requiring the SSA to take on a new function that will detract from its essential work of serving Social Security beneficiaries is unacceptable. We urge our colleagues to review the attached letter from AARP about this important issue. ###
10.06.2011	Mr. Chairman, thank you for this opportunity to give bipartisan consideration of the President’s proposals on helping unemployed Americans. Hopefully, we can work together to seek meaningful solutions to the best ways to assist unemployed Americans prepare for and find new work. Today in America the problem we face is unemployment, not the unemployed. Too many Americans remain unemployed because of lack of work, not for their lack of wanting to work. We must stop the “blame the victim” approach of just blaming unemployment on the unemployed. Thus far this year, we have yet to vote on a single meaningful jobs bill, and threats to default on our debt and to shutdown the government have only further set back economic recovery and cost us job growth. There is a great difference in this country between those resting comfortably atop the economic ladder-- who don’t have to worry about unemployment insurance thanks to lavish severance packages -- and the rest of America. Last month, an executive was ejected from HP, Hewlett-Packard with a $13 million golden parachute after his company’s stock price dropped by half. Meanwhile, it was reported that the ranks of the working-age poor are at their highest level in more than 50 years. Luxury goods continue to fly off the shelf, but Walmart reduced the size of its packages of toilet tissue because too many people could not afford the regular size. When folks lose a job through no fault of their own, the least we can do is extend a lifeline. Today, we will examine those portions of the President’s American Jobs Act related to unemployment, including an extension of Federal unemployment insurance and several new initiatives designed to help the unemployed return to work. If Congress fails to act by December 31, more than two million Americans will lose their unemployment benefits by the middle of February, and a total of over 6 million will lose benefits during 2012. The President’s proposal is a good place to start in addressing this problem—that doesn’t mean that I think he has all the answers or even necessarily the best answers on some aspects of this problem. But I especially would emphasize the need to renew extended unemployment assistance. Terminating unemployment assistance would hurt our nation’s economy by further suppressing consumer demand and confidence. The Economic Policy Institute has estimated that allowing the extended Federal unemployment program to expire this year would cost our Nation over 500,000 jobs. This amounts to a double-whammy for the unemployed– they lose their benefits and jobs become even more difficult to locate. And there is near unanimity among economists that few government expenditures have more positive, stimulative effect on our economy than insurance payments to the unemployed, who of necessity must spend those dollars promptly for the necessities of life. But things could get even worse for the unemployed under spending plans recently released by the House Appropriations Committee. This bill would cut funding for job training and employment services by 75 percent. So even as 14 million Americans struggle to find work, Republicans are preparing to make extraordinary cuts. No benefits, no training and no jobs equals no future for our Nation’s unemployed. While vital, unemployment benefits are not generous. The average benefit of $300 a week reaches only about 70 percent of the poverty line for a family of four. Most unemployed want very much to work, but there are simply not enough jobs to go around. Even with the 2 million private-sector jobs that have been created over the last year and half, there remain roughly 7 million fewer jobs in the economy today than when the “Great Recession” started in December, 2007, during the Bush-Cheney Administration. This jobs deficit means that today in America there are over 4.3 unemployed workers for every available job. And that is why so often when new jobs are announced, the line of jobseekers stretches around the corner. And while there has been much ballyhooing about the so-called Texas miracle, the unemployment rate in my state -- 8.5% -- stands higher today that at any time in the last 25 years. Our state is also a good example of what happens when ideological constraints and political imperatives produce decisions that harm both employees and employers. Texas employers are paying more because Governor Perry insisted that some of the unemployed receive less. Because the Governor rejected $555 million in federal support for the unemployed in 2009, Texas is now raising additional taxes on employers and incurring more public debt. Though we may not have as high an unemployment rate as in Ohio or Michigan, we have over 100,000 long-term unemployed workers who will lose their lifeline if these benefits are not extended. Let’s hope that this hearing is just the first step in forging a clear consensus that we must not abandon the millions of Americans, who depend on unemployment insurance to make ends meet, at the same time that they are actively seeking a new job. Let’s work together to move our economy forward and increase the opportunity for folks looking for work to find it.
10.06.2011	Mr. Chairman, thank you for this opportunity to give bipartisan consideration of the President’s proposals on helping unemployed Americans. Hopefully, we can work together to seek meaningful solutions to the best ways to assist unemployed Americans prepare for and find new work. Today in America the problem we face is unemployment, not the unemployed. Too many Americans remain unemployed because of lack of work, not for their lack of wanting to work. We must stop the “blame the victim” approach of just blaming unemployment on the unemployed. Thus far this year, we have yet to vote on a single meaningful jobs bill, and threats to default on our debt and to shutdown the government have only further set back economic recovery and cost us job growth. There is a great difference in this country between those resting comfortably atop the economic ladder-- who don’t have to worry about unemployment insurance thanks to lavish severance packages -- and the rest of America. Last month, an executive was ejected from HP, Hewlett-Packard with a $13 million golden parachute after his company’s stock price dropped by half. Meanwhile, it was reported that the ranks of the working-age poor are at their highest level in more than 50 years. Luxury goods continue to fly off the shelf, but Walmart reduced the size of its packages of toilet tissue because too many people could not afford the regular size. When folks lose a job through no fault of their own, the least we can do is extend a lifeline. Today, we will examine those portions of the President’s American Jobs Act related to unemployment, including an extension of Federal unemployment insurance and several new initiatives designed to help the unemployed return to work. If Congress fails to act by December 31, more than two million Americans will lose their unemployment benefits by the middle of February, and a total of over 6 million will lose benefits during 2012. The President’s proposal is a good place to start in addressing this problem—that doesn’t mean that I think he has all the answers or even necessarily the best answers on some aspects of this problem. But I especially would emphasize the need to renew extended unemployment assistance. Terminating unemployment assistance would hurt our nation’s economy by further suppressing consumer demand and confidence. The Economic Policy Institute has estimated that allowing the extended Federal unemployment program to expire this year would cost our Nation over 500,000 jobs. This amounts to a double-whammy for the unemployed– they lose their benefits and jobs become even more difficult to locate. And there is near unanimity among economists that few government expenditures have more positive, stimulative effect on our economy than insurance payments to the unemployed, who of necessity must spend those dollars promptly for the necessities of life. But things could get even worse for the unemployed under spending plans recently released by the House Appropriations Committee. This bill would cut funding for job training and employment services by 75 percent. So even as 14 million Americans struggle to find work, Republicans are preparing to make extraordinary cuts. No benefits, no training and no jobs equals no future for our Nation’s unemployed. While vital, unemployment benefits are not generous. The average benefit of $300 a week reaches only about 70 percent of the poverty line for a family of four. Most unemployed want very much to work, but there are simply not enough jobs to go around. Even with the 2 million private-sector jobs that have been created over the last year and half, there remain roughly 7 million fewer jobs in the economy today than when the “Great Recession” started in December, 2007, during the Bush-Cheney Administration. This jobs deficit means that today in America there are over 4.3 unemployed workers for every available job. And that is why so often when new jobs are announced, the line of jobseekers stretches around the corner. And while there has been much ballyhooing about the so-called Texas miracle, the unemployment rate in my state -- 8.5% -- stands higher today that at any time in the last 25 years. Our state is also a good example of what happens when ideological constraints and political imperatives produce decisions that harm both employees and employers. Texas employers are paying more because Governor Perry insisted that some of the unemployed receive less. Because the Governor rejected $555 million in federal support for the unemployed in 2009, Texas is now raising additional taxes on employers and incurring more public debt. Though we may not have as high an unemployment rate as in Ohio or Michigan, we have over 100,000 long-term unemployed workers who will lose their lifeline if these benefits are not extended. Let’s hope that this hearing is just the first step in forging a clear consensus that we must not abandon the millions of Americans, who depend on unemployment insurance to make ends meet, at the same time that they are actively seeking a new job. Let’s work together to move our economy forward and increase the opportunity for folks looking for work to find it.
10.06.2011	Thursday, my subcommittee plans to hold a hearing about the parts of President Barack Obama’s jobs bill related to unemployment. This includes an extension of federal unemployment insurance, as well as new initiatives designed to help the jobless return to work.If Congress fails to act by Dec. 31, more than 2 million Americans lose their unemployment benefits by mid-February, and a total of more than 6 million will likely lose benefits during 2012.Terminating unemployment assistance also hurts our economy by suppressing consumer demand and confidence. Allowing this federal unemployment program to expire would cost our nation more than 500,000 jobs, according to the Economic Policy Institute. The means a double-whammy for the unemployed — they lose their benefits and jobs also become even more difficult to find.There is near unanimity among economists that few government expenditures have a more positive, stimulative effect than insurance payments to the unemployed — who spend those dollars quickly to pay for life’s necessities.My hope is that Thursday’s crucial hearing can provide a glimmer of hope that Republicans are finally prepared to move in a different direction. My Republican colleagues must stop their “blame the victim” approach, as I have repeatedly urged them. They must refrain from blaming unemployment on the unemployed.One Republican congressman this year even went so far as to compare the unemployed to drug addicts. “We’ve got a system,” he said, “where you can stay on unemployment for an awfully long time. … Anybody who’s had an alcoholic in their life or somebody with a drug problem, realizes that until things get bad enough, there’s no incentive to change. We’re so generous … that people are unwilling to get a job outside in the heat.”This is gravely insulting to the millions of Americans who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own, because our nation has shed 9 million jobs. It is also plain wrong.Unemployment benefits are a lifeline — but they are not generous. The average benefit of $300 a week reaches only about 70 percent of the poverty line for a family of four. Most unemployed want very much to work. But there are simply not enough jobs to go around.Even with the 2 million jobs created during the past year and a half, there remain roughly 7 million fewer jobs in the economy today than when the Great Recession started in December 2007, during the Bush-Cheney administration.This jobs deficit means that today in America there are more than 4.3 unemployed workers for every available job. That’s why, when new jobs are announced, the line of job seekers often stretches around the block.Let’s hope that this hearing is just the first step in forging a clear consensus that we must not abandon the millions of Americans who now depend on unemployment insurance to make ends meet — even as they actively seek a new job.With that as a starting point, I am hopeful we can make real progress on moving our economy forward — and increasing the opportunity so that folks looking for work can find it.Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) is the ranking member of the House Human Resources Subcommittee.
10.06.2011	Thursday, my subcommittee plans to hold a hearing about the parts of President Barack Obama’s jobs bill related to unemployment. This includes an extension of federal unemployment insurance, as well as new initiatives designed to help the jobless return to work.If Congress fails to act by Dec. 31, more than 2 million Americans lose their unemployment benefits by mid-February, and a total of more than 6 million will likely lose benefits during 2012.Terminating unemployment assistance also hurts our economy by suppressing consumer demand and confidence. Allowing this federal unemployment program to expire would cost our nation more than 500,000 jobs, according to the Economic Policy Institute. The means a double-whammy for the unemployed — they lose their benefits and jobs also become even more difficult to find.There is near unanimity among economists that few government expenditures have a more positive, stimulative effect than insurance payments to the unemployed — who spend those dollars quickly to pay for life’s necessities.My hope is that Thursday’s crucial hearing can provide a glimmer of hope that Republicans are finally prepared to move in a different direction. My Republican colleagues must stop their “blame the victim” approach, as I have repeatedly urged them. They must refrain from blaming unemployment on the unemployed.One Republican congressman this year even went so far as to compare the unemployed to drug addicts. “We’ve got a system,” he said, “where you can stay on unemployment for an awfully long time. … Anybody who’s had an alcoholic in their life or somebody with a drug problem, realizes that until things get bad enough, there’s no incentive to change. We’re so generous … that people are unwilling to get a job outside in the heat.”This is gravely insulting to the millions of Americans who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own, because our nation has shed 9 million jobs. It is also plain wrong.Unemployment benefits are a lifeline — but they are not generous. The average benefit of $300 a week reaches only about 70 percent of the poverty line for a family of four. Most unemployed want very much to work. But there are simply not enough jobs to go around.Even with the 2 million jobs created during the past year and a half, there remain roughly 7 million fewer jobs in the economy today than when the Great Recession started in December 2007, during the Bush-Cheney administration.This jobs deficit means that today in America there are more than 4.3 unemployed workers for every available job. That’s why, when new jobs are announced, the line of job seekers often stretches around the block.Let’s hope that this hearing is just the first step in forging a clear consensus that we must not abandon the millions of Americans who now depend on unemployment insurance to make ends meet — even as they actively seek a new job.With that as a starting point, I am hopeful we can make real progress on moving our economy forward — and increasing the opportunity so that folks looking for work can find it.Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas) is the ranking member of the House Human Resources Subcommittee.
10.05.2011	Dr. Joe Gonzales, Superintendent of East Austin College Prep was pleased to hear news of the funding. “My experience over the last 50 years as an educator confirms what research shows to be the significant relationship between health-related fitness and academic achievement. At East Austin College Prep we are always looking for ways to inspire our students to become more active and health conscious, and this grant will boost our school’s physical education program and provide the tools students need to lead healthier lives,” he said.The program is a comprehensive strategy to increase physical activity school/community-wide: o Daily classroom physical activity breaks; o Organized after school physical activity programs; o Walking and biking to/from school; o Access to fitness club-type equipment at school; o Gym in the morning before school begins; o Intramural sport teams; o Evening events for students to engage in physical activity; and o Annual campus or community events to heighten community awareness of physical activity and health. The program will offer before/during school, evening, weekend and summer physical fitness activities and nutritional programs for students, parents and community citizens to develop health-related fitness aptitudes, physical competence and positive attitude about physical activity to overall increase student learning. Much of the educational work will be spearheaded by East Austin College Prep’s team of highly-qualified P.E. Instructors and Facilitators, and occur during the scope of the school and directly after. However, through partnerships with Boys and Girls Club, Capital Area Food Bank, and 360 Leadership and many other organizations, youth, parents, community residents will be afforded enhanced health, physical, nutritional activities and special extracurricular activities. Through this project, students will gain increased knowledge and awareness on healthy living, exercise, physical fitness, behavior, attitude, responsibility, and making sound well-being decisions. New high-tech equipment will be offered to not only motivate students and adults but also to engage them in new 21st century physical fitness practices and exercises using hands on, innovative technology to increase motor skills and physical activities that enhance development. Exercise will be made more appealing and enjoyable via a variety of activities that are interactive and age appropriate so that students are more likely to exercise regularly and form lifelong habits. East Austin College Prep (www.eaprep.org) is a tuition-free Full Service Community School open to 6th, 7th and 8th graders living in East Austin. The school will open to 9th graders in 2012. The mission of East Austin College Prep is to inspire students to have clear college aspirations along with the academic skills and passion to fulfill their dreams. As a model school that successfully prepares all students, regardless of economic background, for graduation and success in college, East Austin College Prep stands apart with its extended school day, highly qualified instructors on-call until 9:00 pm each day, 3 week summer session, small culturally relevant classes with individualized instruction, intensive parental and community involvement program, and a college prep curriculum based on award-winning model. Located at Southwest Key’s state-of-the-art Centro de Familia, the school is the central component of the East Austin Children’s Promise (www.swkey.org/promise), a strategy to ensure student success by providing comprehensive wraparound services to meet the needs of the whole family and revitalize the surrounding neighborhood. ###
10.03.2011	October 3, 2011 Washington—Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, Chair of the Texas Democratic Congressional Delegation, issued the following statement after the U.S. Senate confirmed Judge Marina Garcia Marmolejo’s nomination for a federal judgeship in Laredo: “Our Texas Democratic Delegation recommended Marina Garcia Marmolejo on May 13, 2009, and she was officially nominated by President Obama, first on July 28, 2010, and again renominated at the beginning of the current Congress. Despite initially concurring with our recommendation, our Texas Senators permitted her confirmation to linger for more than a year. Born in Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas Mexico, and naturalized as a United States citizen, Marmolejo represents historic change in the diversity of the Texas federal judiciary and is an inspiration to young Latinas in South Texas. “In March, 2009, President Obama announced he would not make Texas justice nominations without “the confirmed support” of the Texas Democratic delegation. To date, every judge named here has met that standard, including Marmolejo, Judge Diana Saldana and Judge Nelva Gonzales Ramos, all of whom have now been confirmed. While our recommendations are working to strengthen and diversify the federal judiciary in Texas, we await overdue action on the remaining judicial vacancies in Texas.” The remaining judicial vacancies in Texas are: District Vacant Nominations Western District (El Paso) Feb. 26, 2009 Judge David Guaderrama nominated Sept. 14, 2011 Eastern District Jan. 1, 2010 Rodney Gilstrap nominated May 19, 2011 Southern District June 11, 2010 Gregg Costa nominated Sept. 8, 2011 Western District (San Antonio) Nov. 30, 2008 Judge Karen Pozza recommended June 10, 2009 and recommendations also outstanding but no nominations made for the following: Southern District June 1, 2011 Eastern District Oct. 1, 2011 ###
10.03.2011	Friends, I need your help. As I often say, listening to you and keeping you informed of what is happening in Washington and back home in Texas are among my top priorities. In recent days, the best way for me to do that is through my social media networks on Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube. Beginning today, Monday, September 26 through Sunday, October 16, the Democratic Whip's Office is hosting the second annual Democratic Member All-Star Competition to encourage the growth of our social media communities to keep constituents informed.Winners will be selected based on the total new Facebook Fans, Twitter Followers, and YouTube Subscribers that we gain during this three week period. You can help spread the word to your friends and family by linking to my Facebook page on your wall and encouraging others to hit the 'Like' button, tweeting my Twitter handle-- @RepLloydDoggett-- and letting your friends know the easiest way to keep informed of my floor speeches and committee statements is by subscribing to my YouTube channel. This is a good reminder of the importance of encouraging others you think may be interested to get involved and stay engaged in the work I am doing in Washington to protect our seniors’ retirement security, provide educational opportunities for our youth, and support for our working families. As always, please keep me informed on federal matters on which I might be of assistance.Below, I have also included easy to use buttons to make spreading the word via Twitter about all three of my networks even easier. Sincerely, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett
09.30.2011	September 30, 2011 Washington—Today, President Obama signed bipartisan legislation to provide assistance to at-risk families, youth and foster children by improving and extending key child welfare programs by U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett’s (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Human Resources Subcommittee. The Child and Family Services Improvement and Innovation Act, which Ranking Member Doggett sponsored with Human Resources Subcommittee Chairman Geoff Davis (R-KY) would also extend the Promoting Safe and Stable Families and Child Welfare Services programs, and would reauthorize the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to allow states to use federal foster care funds to test innovative, new child welfare programs. The National Coalition for Child Protection Reform called this bill the biggest change for the better in federal child welfare law in 31 years. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"> During debate of the legislation in the U.S. House of Representative, Ranking Member Doggett delivered the following floor speech, praising the bipartisan nature of this bill and indicating that he fully supports it versus allowing the two programs that it extends to expire, while also acknowledging that this bill does not go far enough to meet more children’s needs. “With need growing and funding limited, too many of our most vulnerable children cannot access the services that they so desperately need,” said Rep. Doggett. “This bill leaves too many problems unresolved, but in our current climate, I believe it is about the best that we can do to protect the well being of at-risk children. This bill reauthorizes help to at least some children, who become victims of maltreatment, provides family support activities to some vulnerable families, and promotes adoption services for those children who cannot safely return to their biological parents.”
09.30.2011	September 30, 2011Washington— Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett announced that the Department of Energy’s Advanced Research Projects Administration – Energy (ARPA-E) has awarded Ideal Power Converters a grant of $2.5 million. The funds will be distributed as part of a $156 million package to encourage cutting-edge energy research and projects across the country. Ideal Power Converters was selected to support the DOE SunShot initiative, a collaborative national initiative to make solar energy cost competitive with other forms of energy by the end of the decade. Reducing the installed cost of solar energy systems by about 75% will drive widespread, large-scale adoption of this renewable energy technology and restore <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags"> U.S. leadership in the global clean energy race.Ideal Power Converters (IPC) is addressing the need to reduce the cost of both solar inverters and their installation. IPC’s project goal for this funding is to reduce the weight of these solar inverters by 98%. IPC has already developed an inverter system with more than 90% weight reduction. IPC installed a 30kW inverter prototype at the Austin Convention Center last summer and is currently installing early production systems in Austin and San Antonio. These light-weight inverters reduce manufacturing and installation costs and are more efficient and reliable. Rep. Doggett said, “The race for clean energy is not one that we cannot afford to lose. Ideal Power Converters is already improving our use of renewable energy in Central Texas, and now the Department of Energy has recognized that its cutting edge technology will help ensure that the U.S. is a leader in the global renewable energy industry.” “Support from ARPA-E will enable Ideal Power Converters and our university partners to develop and commercialize an innovative silicon bidirectional IGBT switch that will dramatically improve performance and reduce costs of solar inverters,” said Bill Alexander, CEO of Ideal Power Converters. “IPC will also apply this breakthrough technology to wind generation, battery inverters and high power electric vehicle charging applications. Over the next several years IPC and its US suppliers will create thousands of new jobs and enable the US to regain technical and manufacturing leadership in this critical clean tech industry.”<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"> ###
09.29.2011	"The Strengthening Relationships/Strengthening Families program will provide pregnant and parenting adolescents with relationship education, as well as job readiness and financial management skills that will ultimately enhance their well-being and strengthen their families. We are grateful to Congressman Doggett for his help in securing this vital funding," said Michelle Toews, program administrator and associate professor of family and consumer sciences at Texas State. Previous research has found adolescent pregnancy and parenting often result in poorer psychological functioning, higher levels of relationship instability, and an increased risk of intimate partner violence. In addition, SR/SF will incorporate job readiness skills because adolescent parents are less likely to graduate from high school, more likely to be unemployed, and more likely to receive government assistance. The program will also provide financial management education in order to strengthen young families because Drs. Toews and Yazedjian have found many of the conflicts adolescent parents experience revolve around money. To reach the goal of strengthening families, four SR/SF Facilitators will implement the program during the school day with the assistance of undergraduate and graduate interns at Texas State from a variety of disciplines. The proposed program will be delivered to adolescents enrolled in Pregnancy, Education, and Parenting (PEP) programs located in Central Texas each week over the course of the school year. These sessions will cover topics such as healthy relationships, communication skills, conflict resolution strategies, job readiness skills, and financial literacy. ###
09.28.2011	September 28, 2011 Washington— Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, a senior member of the Ways and Means and Budget Committees, announced that the Travis County Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault Survival Center (SafePlace) will receive $500,000 to collaborate with Disability Rights Texas (DRTx) to address obstacles that women with disabilities have in accessing domestic violence and sexual assault services. Understanding these obstacles is they key to developing services for individuals with disabilities who are victims of domestic violence, dating violence, stalking and sexual assault. “Just a few days before the start of Domestic Violence Awareness month, this is great news for a local organization working to provide safety, healing, prevention, and change for women and families who have been victimized by abuse,” said Rep. Doggett. “These federal funds will allow SafePlace to continue their important work and make changes so that it can effectively reach even more individuals who may face unique challenges in seeking help.”“We know that there are high incidences of violence against women with disabilities and these funds will allow us to reach out further to women with disabilities in our community,” said Wendie Abramson, SafePlace Director of Disability and Deaf Services.<?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"> These federal dollars were funded through the Disability Grant Program created by the Violence Against Women Act of 2005 to enhance services to individuals with disabilities who may have been a victim of domestic violence or other forms of assault. Originally founded in 2006, SafePlace will build upon and enhance past efforts by increasing the awareness of the Deaf community and people with disabilities about domestic violence and sexual assault services that are available to them, enhancing the knowledge of all SafePlace and DRT staff about the intersection of domestic violence, sexual assault disability issues, and increasing access to safe, welcoming, and appropriate services. These goals will be achieved by developing an online cross-training for new employee orientation and continued education for existing staff; modifying policies and practices to increase access to services for women with disabilities; and engaging in outreach efforts targeting people with disabilities and the Deaf community to ultimately enhance services and response to victims.SafePlace is ending sexual and domestic violence through safety, healing, prevention and social change. With more than 35-years experience working with survivors of sexual assault and domestic violence in Austin/Travis County, SafePlace is an internationally recognized leader for its innovative and valuable programs. Learn more at https://www.safeplace.org. If you need help, call their 24 Hour Hotline: (512) 267-SAFE or 927-9616 TTY. ###
09.28.2011	This grant is a part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS’s) Community Transformation Grants to support public health efforts to reduce chronic diseases, promote healthier lifestyles, reduce health disparities, and control health care spending. The grants will support the planning and implementation of state and community projects proven to reduce chronic diseases—such as diabetes, heart disease, stroke, and cancer. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"> “The cost of managing chronic diseases in our community continues to grow,”says Dr. Philip Huang, Medical Director for A/TCHHSD. “In the United States, and in Austin and Travis County, chronic diseases such as heart disease, cancer, stroke and diabetes are the leading causes of death, disability, and health care costs that account for 70% of all deaths each year and an estimated 75% of all medical costs. Although chronic diseases are among the most common and costly health problems in our community, they are also among the most preventable.”“Keeping families healthy should be a priority,” said Rep. Doggett. “These funds will help Central Texans make healthy choices and improve the clinical services available to them to keep them well.” Nationwide, the Community Transformation Grants will focus on three priority areas: tobacco-free living; active living and healthy eating; and evidence-based quality clinical and other preventive services, specifically prevention and control of high blood pressure and high cholesterol. There are two types of grants for states and communities: capacity building and implementation. · 35 grantees will implement evidence-based and practice-based programs to achieve changes by running programs designed to help improve health and wellness. For these grants, funding amounts range from $500,000 to $10 million. · 26 grantees will work to build capacity to implement changes by laying a solid foundation for community prevention efforts to ensure long-term success. Funding amounts range from $147,000 to $500,000 depending on population size and scope of project. The grants are expected to run for five years, with projects expanding their scope and reach over time as resources permit. To learn more about Austin/Travis County Health and Human Services Department’s current prevention and wellness projects, visit www.austintexas.gov/health. To learn more about Community Transformation Grants, visit www.cdc.gov/communitytransformation. ###
09.27.2011	September 27, 2011 Washington-- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett appeared on MSNBC's Politics Nation to discuss healthcare reform and the Supreme Court:
09.26.2011	Subcommittee Work is Working for Texas Families. In the recent hearings that I have overseen, I have shared a number of stories about how the programs that this committee oversees serve Texans. For example, federal funding authorized by our panel is helping address parental substance abuse in Texas families. Last week, I received a note from my friend, District Judge Darlene Byrne in Austin, who helped establish a Family Treatment Drug Court that was partially funded with federal funds. Thanks to this federal support, Judge Byrne has seen new babies who are not drug positive, moms who are reunified with their children, and workers who receive their GEDs and go on to find jobs. Standing Up to Republican Efforts to Blame Unemployment on the Unemployed. Our panel has also struggled to fend off Republican efforts to blame unemployment on the unemployed and to cut assistance to our most desperately unemployed workers who lost work through no fault of their own. Extended unemployment insurance has impacted the lives of many in Central Texas, including a woman named Anne, whose story I told at a hearing this summer. Anne was vice president of an Austin company that borrowed too much, and when the economy tanked, her company did too. It closed its door and 88 people in Central Texas were without a job. Anne contacted my office to learn what she could do, and we told her about the benefits she was due. Anne says the benefits kept her home together and kept her together. Without these benefits, a difficult situation would have become a disastrous situation. During the time that she received extended unemployment benefits, Anne applied for 118 jobs, and received three interviews. For two of those, the employers told her she was overqualified. This summer, she was still struggling to find a job. I Take My Service as Ranking Member Seriously. The committee’s works has a real and direct impact on families. Whether it is an abused child, an unemployed worker, or a person struggling with a disbility, many Americans rely on these services just to get by. But as needs have grown in recent years, the Republicans have flatlined funding for these safety net programs. Though we must ensure these programs are efficient and that every taxpayer dollar is well spent, we have a responsibility to look out for the most vulnerable among us, particularly in these difficult economic times.As the top Democratic watchdog for these vital services in the House, I will continue to speak out against Republican efforts to further slash our safety net and stand up for you.
09.23.2011	Rep. Doggett also noted during his remarks that allowing the Supplemental Grant program to expire is in stark contrast to Republicans’ previous support for this program. In October of 2001, Governor Rick Perry sent a letter to Tom DeLay urging the extension of TANF Supplemental Grants, saying that: “These grants have played an important role in helping hard-working men and women in Texas achieve independence from public assistance. Congress designed the supplemental grants to address the critical program needs of states with especially high population growth and/or historically modest welfare benefits. They are critical to enabling us to help even more Texans move from welfare to work” [letters illustrating Republican support of TANF supplemental grants attached]. “We cannot allow funding for the TANF program to expire. But we also need to move past ‘the very least we can do’ and start responding to the mounting challenges facing struggling families,” said Rep. Doggett. “We need a policy that is more safety net than hole. And I hope eventually we can work together to achieve that.” The bill passed by voice vote. To see Rep. Doggett’s remarks, please click here. [Rep. Doggett’s remarks as prepared for delivery] This is a bipartisan bill, which I fully support, but it is important to understand what this bill does and what it does not do. It is important to understand upon which provisions we agree and which ones we accept as only being better than the alternative of allowing this important law and all those who count on it to expire next week. Last week, the Census Bureau reported that more Americans were poor in 2010 than at any time on record. Regrettably, my home State of Texas was leading the way, with one of the highest poverty rates anywhere in America. The Texas Center for Public Policy Priorities, a non-partisan group, recently reported that “the heart of the American Dream is at risk in Texas. For the first time in generations, more people are falling out of the middle class than joining its ranks.” What a struggle it is for those families trying to hold on. In a neighborhood near downtown San Antonio, Andrew Ramos and his wife, Nina, are struggling just to keep food on the table for themselves and their 2-year-old-daughter. Andrew lost his job, and Nina works at a local pizza parlor where she makes about $200 a week. There are so many families just like the Ramos family—almost one in five in poverty in Bexar County. As John Turner at the Capital Area Food Bank concludes, “Hunger is a result of lack of income and of a livable wage,” Mr. Turner said. “It affects too many of our citizens under the current Texas economic model." The demands on our Food Banks, which serve as effective local public-private partnerships, are immense. The Capital Area Food Bank this year is delivering 50% more food to the poor than it did three years ago. But I don’t hear anyone facing up to this harsh reality—not our Governor in Texas, not the President of the United States, certainly not the leadership here in the House. In fact, the Administration has shown little interest and almost no guidance in reforming this legislation. Rather than respond to rising deprivation and declining opportunity, today’s legislation simply continues for another three months our current, inadequate policies that constitute Temporary Assistance for Needy Families Act or TANF. This is a program that today provides direct assistance to only one out of every five children living in poverty. That’s the lowest level of poor children receiving direct assistance since 1965. In Texas, is it much worse –only about 1 in every 20 poor children receiving assistance from TANF. The bill before us could make this problem even worse in many high poverty States because it fails to extend the TANF Supplemental Grants. A generation ago, as part of the 1996 reform of the welfare law, a reform that I personally supported, TANF Supplemental Grant funds were set aside to help the States that were negatively affected by the federal formula. Ever since, Texas and a number of States have depended on these monies in order to provide assistance that their families need even at the relatively low levels that Texas funds. In fact, the term “supplemental” is really a misnomer. If these grants are not extended, states will lose more than $3 billion over the next decade to help struggling families and to promote work -- $500 million of that in my state of Texas. Allowing these grants to expire breaks the deal on welfare reform that was struck 15 years ago. If we don’t pass the TANF extension, TANF programs could shut down all across the country. Cash assistance would of course be affected, but cash assistance is only about a third of TANF spending. Funding would be eliminated for a variety of programs supporting child care, work support, school dropout prevention, pregnancy prevention, and home visits by nurses to at-risk families with infants and young children. Though we can’t say exactly what states would do if the Supplemental Grants are now renewed, CPPP in Austin says that a failure to extend Supplemental Grants would mean “programs and services— most notably child protective services—will have to be cut or funded with general revenue in the next budget cycle.” Allowing these grants to expire is in stark contrast to Republicans’ previous support for this program. In Oct. 2001, Rick Perry sent a letter to Tom DeLay urging the extension of TANF Supp Grants, saying that: “These grants have played an important role in helping hard-working men and women in Texas achieve independence from public assistance. Congress designed the supplemental grants to address the critical program needs of states with especially high population growth and/or historically modest welfare benefits. They are critical to enabling us to help even more Texans move from welfare to work” Mr. Speaker, we cannot allow funding for the TANF program to expire. But we also need to move past “the very least we can do” and start responding to the mounting challenges facing struggling families. TANF has not been adequately responsive to the increased level of need in these bad economic times. Just this month, I heard from Claudia Herrington, a nonprofit Community Relations coordinator, who sees everyday the plight of families who are struggling to make ends meet in Central Texas. The folks served by El Buen Samaritano, primarily low income Latino families, work hard to provide for their families. But they simply cannot do so when there is a drought of opportunity and too few livable wage jobs. Claudia says: This is not the American dream I believe in. This is not the American dream my father believed in when he emigrated from Cuba in the 1960's. I know our country is better than that, regardless of political affiliation. And I know that investment in our people and their ability to earn a decent living is a worthwhile policy. We need a policy that is more safety net than hole. And I hope eventually we can work together to achieve that. ###
09.23.2011	Rep. Doggett also noted during his remarks that allowing the Supplemental Grant program to expire is in stark contrast to Republicans’ previous support for this program. In October of 2001, Governor Rick Perry sent a letter to Tom DeLay urging the extension of TANF Supplemental Grants, saying that: “These grants have played an important role in helping hard-working men and women in Texas achieve independence from public assistance. Congress designed the supplemental grants to address the critical program needs of states with especially high population growth and/or historically modest welfare benefits. They are critical to enabling us to help even more Texans move from welfare to work” [letters illustrating Republican support of TANF supplemental grants attached]. “We cannot allow funding for the TANF program to expire. But we also need to move past ‘the very least we can do’ and start responding to the mounting challenges facing struggling families,” said Rep. Doggett. “We need a policy that is more safety net than hole. And I hope eventually we can work together to achieve that.” The bill passed by voice vote. To see Rep. Doggett’s remarks, please click here. [Rep. Doggett’s remarks as prepared for delivery] This is a bipartisan bill, which I fully support, but it is important to understand what this bill does and what it does not do. It is important to understand upon which provisions we agree and which ones we accept as only being better than the alternative of allowing this important law and all those who count on it to expire next week. Last week, the Census Bureau reported that more Americans were poor in 2010 than at any time on record. Regrettably, my home State of Texas was leading the way, with one of the highest poverty rates anywhere in America. The Texas Center for Public Policy Priorities, a non-partisan group, recently reported that “the heart of the American Dream is at risk in Texas. For the first time in generations, more people are falling out of the middle class than joining its ranks.” What a struggle it is for those families trying to hold on. In a neighborhood near downtown San Antonio, Andrew Ramos and his wife, Nina, are struggling just to keep food on the table for themselves and their 2-year-old-daughter. Andrew lost his job, and Nina works at a local pizza parlor where she makes about $200 a week. There are so many families just like the Ramos family—almost one in five in poverty in Bexar County. As John Turner at the Capital Area Food Bank concludes, “Hunger is a result of lack of income and of a livable wage,” Mr. Turner said. “It affects too many of our citizens under the current Texas economic model." The demands on our Food Banks, which serve as effective local public-private partnerships, are immense. The Capital Area Food Bank this year is delivering 50% more food to the poor than it did three years ago. But I don’t hear anyone facing up to this harsh reality—not our Governor in Texas, not the President of the United States, certainly not the leadership here in the House. In fact, the Administration has shown little interest and almost no guidance in reforming this legislation. Rather than respond to rising deprivation and declining opportunity, today’s legislation simply continues for another three months our current, inadequate policies that constitute Temporary Assistance for Needy Families Act or TANF. This is a program that today provides direct assistance to only one out of every five children living in poverty. That’s the lowest level of poor children receiving direct assistance since 1965. In Texas, is it much worse –only about 1 in every 20 poor children receiving assistance from TANF. The bill before us could make this problem even worse in many high poverty States because it fails to extend the TANF Supplemental Grants. A generation ago, as part of the 1996 reform of the welfare law, a reform that I personally supported, TANF Supplemental Grant funds were set aside to help the States that were negatively affected by the federal formula. Ever since, Texas and a number of States have depended on these monies in order to provide assistance that their families need even at the relatively low levels that Texas funds. In fact, the term “supplemental” is really a misnomer. If these grants are not extended, states will lose more than $3 billion over the next decade to help struggling families and to promote work -- $500 million of that in my state of Texas. Allowing these grants to expire breaks the deal on welfare reform that was struck 15 years ago. If we don’t pass the TANF extension, TANF programs could shut down all across the country. Cash assistance would of course be affected, but cash assistance is only about a third of TANF spending. Funding would be eliminated for a variety of programs supporting child care, work support, school dropout prevention, pregnancy prevention, and home visits by nurses to at-risk families with infants and young children. Though we can’t say exactly what states would do if the Supplemental Grants are now renewed, CPPP in Austin says that a failure to extend Supplemental Grants would mean “programs and services— most notably child protective services—will have to be cut or funded with general revenue in the next budget cycle.” Allowing these grants to expire is in stark contrast to Republicans’ previous support for this program. In Oct. 2001, Rick Perry sent a letter to Tom DeLay urging the extension of TANF Supp Grants, saying that: “These grants have played an important role in helping hard-working men and women in Texas achieve independence from public assistance. Congress designed the supplemental grants to address the critical program needs of states with especially high population growth and/or historically modest welfare benefits. They are critical to enabling us to help even more Texans move from welfare to work” Mr. Speaker, we cannot allow funding for the TANF program to expire. But we also need to move past “the very least we can do” and start responding to the mounting challenges facing struggling families. TANF has not been adequately responsive to the increased level of need in these bad economic times. Just this month, I heard from Claudia Herrington, a nonprofit Community Relations coordinator, who sees everyday the plight of families who are struggling to make ends meet in Central Texas. The folks served by El Buen Samaritano, primarily low income Latino families, work hard to provide for their families. But they simply cannot do so when there is a drought of opportunity and too few livable wage jobs. Claudia says: This is not the American dream I believe in. This is not the American dream my father believed in when he emigrated from Cuba in the 1960's. I know our country is better than that, regardless of political affiliation. And I know that investment in our people and their ability to earn a decent living is a worthwhile policy. We need a policy that is more safety net than hole. And I hope eventually we can work together to achieve that. ###
09.23.2011	While praising the bipartisan nature of this bill and indicating that he fully supports it versus allowing the two programs that it extends to expire, Rep. Doggett also acknowledged that this bill does not go far enough to meet more children’s needs. “With need growing and funding limited, too many of our most vulnerable children cannot access the services that they so desperately need,” said Rep. Doggett. “This bill leaves too many problems unresolved, but in our current climate, I believe it is about the best that we can do to protect the well being of at-risk children. This bill reauthorizes help to at least some children, who become victims of maltreatment, provides family support activities to some vulnerable families, and promotes adoption services for those children who cannot safely return to their biological parents.” You can view Rep. Doggett’s remarks by clicking here. [Rep. Doggett’s remarks as prepared for delivery] The Chairman Mr. [Geoff] Davis is correct, we have worked on this together, we have participated in hearings together, learned together and cooperated on this very important subject to which we may bring differing perspectives but a common goal of wanting to respond to the needs to America’s most vulnerable children. This is a bipartisan bill, which I fully support, but it is important to understand what we support and where we have differences, and to understand what this legislation accomplishes and what it fails to accomplish. It certainly is preferable to allowing two very important laws to expire next week. Each year, over 700,000 children become the victims of abuse and neglect perpetrated by the very people who are supposed to love and care for them – their parents. The joy that my wife Libby and I feel each time that we are home in Texas with our three young granddaughters—Ella, Clara, and Zayla-- makes it incomprehensible how anyone could abuse a child. Yet, that is the reality that too many of our children face. One expert estimated that a child suffers abuse in our country every six hours of every day. I agree that both Child Welfare Services and the Promoting Safe and Stable Families laws should be renewed for another 5 years. I disagree that these programs should be continued at their current baseline funding levels, since with need growing and funding limited, too many of our most vulnerable children cannot access the services that they so desperately need. These are the children, whose neglect will only produce more problems for other Americans in the future—they are the children we should be helping now to avoid imprisoning later. Today in America, 40 percent of children found to be victims of abuse and neglect do not receive any follow-up or intervention. Less than half of the children in foster care receive federal assistance to help with their room and board. This is unacceptable, and this bill fails to address this giant gap. Indeed, unless more is done over coming years, this gap will only widen. And federal law, which today’s legislation leaves in place, continues to provide many more resources to support children after they are removed from their homes than we do to help keep their families together. These challenges will require a much bigger and better responses in the future. In my home State of Texas, the Promoting Safe and Stable Families [under Title IV-B] accounts for a significant source of funding that is used to serve our youngest Texans. According to Dr. Jane Burstain of the Center for Public Policy Priorities in Austin, funding from the program accounted for 2 of every 3 dollars supporting child abuse and neglect prevention programs last year. In the San Antonio, these programs provide important resources to help vulnerable children and families through the Bexar County Child Welfare Board. This bill also continues grants to support State activities in addressing parental substance abuse in families. Last week, I received a note from my friend, District Judge Darlene Byrne in Austin, who helped establish a Family Treatment Drug Court that was partially funded with such a federal grant. Thanks to this federal support, Judge Byrne has seen “new babies who are not drug positive”; “moms and couples reunify with their children”; and “workers who receive their GEDs or high school diplomas and find employment.” In short, this program has contributed to transformed lives and helped to stop the cycle of drug abuse, poverty, and violence in Texas. It is important to those who benefit from it directly, but all of us have a self-interest in seeking hope and opportunity for such families instead of only trouble for all of us from their neglect. The legislation also extends the Court Improvement Program, which provides funding for each State’s highest court to improve judicial proceedings on foster care and adoption cases, and provides training for judges, attorneys, and other court officials. The program has been successful in improving the quality of legal representation for children across the nation, including Texas, which has used the program to reform State laws, policies, and court procedures. Today’s legislation also includes some modest policy changes that will strengthen States’ ability to address the needs of at-risk children. This bill also improves the sharing of data used in the administration of child welfare programs. Just as data sharing can detect individuals who should not receive benefits, it also can be used to improve outreach to Americans who are eligible for assistance, but who are not receiving it. Mr. Speaker, this bill leaves too many problems unresolved, but in our current climate, I believe it is about the best that we can do to protect the well being of at-risk children. This bill reauthorizes help to at least some children, who become victims of maltreatment, provides family support activities to some vulnerable families, and promotes adoption services for those children who cannot safely return to their biological parents. That is why this bill is supported by child advocacy groups such as the Child Welfare League of America, First Focus, and Zero to Three, as well as by the National Conference of State Legislatures, the American Public Human Services Association, and the Conference of State Court Administrators. I urge all of my colleagues to support this legislation. ###
09.23.2011	While praising the bipartisan nature of this bill and indicating that he fully supports it versus allowing the two programs that it extends to expire, Rep. Doggett also acknowledged that this bill does not go far enough to meet more children’s needs. “With need growing and funding limited, too many of our most vulnerable children cannot access the services that they so desperately need,” said Rep. Doggett. “This bill leaves too many problems unresolved, but in our current climate, I believe it is about the best that we can do to protect the well being of at-risk children. This bill reauthorizes help to at least some children, who become victims of maltreatment, provides family support activities to some vulnerable families, and promotes adoption services for those children who cannot safely return to their biological parents.” You can view Rep. Doggett’s remarks by clicking here. [Rep. Doggett’s remarks as prepared for delivery] The Chairman Mr. [Geoff] Davis is correct, we have worked on this together, we have participated in hearings together, learned together and cooperated on this very important subject to which we may bring differing perspectives but a common goal of wanting to respond to the needs to America’s most vulnerable children. This is a bipartisan bill, which I fully support, but it is important to understand what we support and where we have differences, and to understand what this legislation accomplishes and what it fails to accomplish. It certainly is preferable to allowing two very important laws to expire next week. Each year, over 700,000 children become the victims of abuse and neglect perpetrated by the very people who are supposed to love and care for them – their parents. The joy that my wife Libby and I feel each time that we are home in Texas with our three young granddaughters—Ella, Clara, and Zayla-- makes it incomprehensible how anyone could abuse a child. Yet, that is the reality that too many of our children face. One expert estimated that a child suffers abuse in our country every six hours of every day. I agree that both Child Welfare Services and the Promoting Safe and Stable Families laws should be renewed for another 5 years. I disagree that these programs should be continued at their current baseline funding levels, since with need growing and funding limited, too many of our most vulnerable children cannot access the services that they so desperately need. These are the children, whose neglect will only produce more problems for other Americans in the future—they are the children we should be helping now to avoid imprisoning later. Today in America, 40 percent of children found to be victims of abuse and neglect do not receive any follow-up or intervention. Less than half of the children in foster care receive federal assistance to help with their room and board. This is unacceptable, and this bill fails to address this giant gap. Indeed, unless more is done over coming years, this gap will only widen. And federal law, which today’s legislation leaves in place, continues to provide many more resources to support children after they are removed from their homes than we do to help keep their families together. These challenges will require a much bigger and better responses in the future. In my home State of Texas, the Promoting Safe and Stable Families [under Title IV-B] accounts for a significant source of funding that is used to serve our youngest Texans. According to Dr. Jane Burstain of the Center for Public Policy Priorities in Austin, funding from the program accounted for 2 of every 3 dollars supporting child abuse and neglect prevention programs last year. In the San Antonio, these programs provide important resources to help vulnerable children and families through the Bexar County Child Welfare Board. This bill also continues grants to support State activities in addressing parental substance abuse in families. Last week, I received a note from my friend, District Judge Darlene Byrne in Austin, who helped establish a Family Treatment Drug Court that was partially funded with such a federal grant. Thanks to this federal support, Judge Byrne has seen “new babies who are not drug positive”; “moms and couples reunify with their children”; and “workers who receive their GEDs or high school diplomas and find employment.” In short, this program has contributed to transformed lives and helped to stop the cycle of drug abuse, poverty, and violence in Texas. It is important to those who benefit from it directly, but all of us have a self-interest in seeking hope and opportunity for such families instead of only trouble for all of us from their neglect. The legislation also extends the Court Improvement Program, which provides funding for each State’s highest court to improve judicial proceedings on foster care and adoption cases, and provides training for judges, attorneys, and other court officials. The program has been successful in improving the quality of legal representation for children across the nation, including Texas, which has used the program to reform State laws, policies, and court procedures. Today’s legislation also includes some modest policy changes that will strengthen States’ ability to address the needs of at-risk children. This bill also improves the sharing of data used in the administration of child welfare programs. Just as data sharing can detect individuals who should not receive benefits, it also can be used to improve outreach to Americans who are eligible for assistance, but who are not receiving it. Mr. Speaker, this bill leaves too many problems unresolved, but in our current climate, I believe it is about the best that we can do to protect the well being of at-risk children. This bill reauthorizes help to at least some children, who become victims of maltreatment, provides family support activities to some vulnerable families, and promotes adoption services for those children who cannot safely return to their biological parents. That is why this bill is supported by child advocacy groups such as the Child Welfare League of America, First Focus, and Zero to Three, as well as by the National Conference of State Legislatures, the American Public Human Services Association, and the Conference of State Court Administrators. I urge all of my colleagues to support this legislation. ###
09.21.2011	[Text of the letter follows below] The Honorable Ben S. Bernanke Chairman Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 20th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20551 RE: Report on Bank Compensation Structures Dear Chairman Bernanke: On June 9, 2010, in response to my question at a House Budget Committee hearing, you testified that the Federal Reserve would publish a report on bank compensation structures by the end of 2010 or in early 2011. When I raised this issue again at a Budget Committee hearing on February 9, 2011, we had the following exchange: REP. LLOYD DOGGETT: When you were here to testify last, you responded to my question about that by indicating that the Federal Reserve, under your direction, was preparing a public report to the American people on bank compensation structure that would be available at the end of last year or early this year. About four months ago, your general counsel testified here in the House also about the importance of making that report public to the American people. When can we expect to see the report? CHAIRMAN BEN BERNANKE: I believe that will be soon. We certainly are working in that direction. As you know, we put guidance out in June 2010, and we're working to follow the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act to put out additional restrictions and REP. DOGGETT: Right. I know there's been some discussion that that public report that you testified to us about and that your general counsel testified about would now be kept secret. But it is your intent to make it fully public to the American people. MR. BERNANKE: That's my understanding, yes. REP. DOGGETT: And you think will happen very soon. MR. BERNANKE: I believe so, but I'd like to get back to you, if I might, on the exact date. REP. DOGGETT: Please do, especially if any part of it will be kept secret, as some have suggested. I think that would be -- that kind of reversal would be very troubling. As over a year has now passed since my first inquiry, and as we are well past the end of your timeline, I would appreciate an update on the status of the bank compensation report and on any steps the Fed has since taken to rein in excessive bonus and incentive programs at our country's largest banks. Sincerely, Lloyd Doggett
09.15.2011	Washington--House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Human Resources Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), Chairman Geoff Davis (R-Ky.) and Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus (D-Mont.) and Ranking Member Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), today unveiled legislation, The Child and Family Services Improvement and Innovation Act, to provide assistance to at-risk families, youth and foster children by improving and extending key child welfare programs. The bill would extend the Promoting Safe and Stable Families and Child Welfare Services programs, and it would reauthorize the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to allow states to use federal foster care funds to test innovative, new child welfare programs. “This important legislation will permit continued help in addressing the gap between those children who are surrounded by loving and supportive families, and those who are not. As one expert testified at our recent hearing on child abuse, every six hours of every day, a child is reported to have died from abuse or neglect in the United States,” said Ranking Member Doggett. “Enhancing our child welfare programs will have the profound effect of improving the lives of thousands of kids,” Baucus said. “Child welfare waivers capitalize on innovative new programs that accommodate the needs of at-risk kids and avoid disrupting children at home whenever possible. This legislation moves us closer to comprehensive child welfare reform and the goal of giving all children homes that are as secure and healthy as possible.” “This legislation empowers states with the flexibility they need to keep families together and ensure that even the most vulnerable children have a safe and secure living environment,” Hatch said. “By not adding to the deficit, this bill provides a fiscally sound approach towards identifying solutions to many of the problems plaguing the child welfare system today.” “The goal of these programs is to keep families together, while ensuring that children are protected from harm,” Davis said. “Today's bipartisan legislation also renews an effort to improve our child welfare programs by allowing for innovative approaches to preventing children from being unnecessarily placed in foster care. The past success of these programs are a prime example of how working together with our State partners can yield better outcomes for children and families, while not increasing spending or adding to the federal deficit.” The Promoting Safe and Stable Families program provides families who are at risk or in crisis with various support systems, prevents unnecessary foster placements or, when necessary, ensures permanency for children by placing them with family members, reuniting them with parents or finding alternative permanent living arrangements. Similarly, the Child Welfare Services program is designed to keep families together and avoid unnecessarily removing children from their homes. The child welfare waiver program began in 1994, when Congress gave HHS the authority to approve state-based foster care demonstration projects so they could use federal funding to implement innovative new programs that improved on traditional foster care. However, HHS’s authority to approve new child welfare waivers expired in 2006. There are currently waivers in seven states that remain active under short-term extensions, but the legislation announced today will give HHS the authority to award a new round of waiver approvals each year for a period of five years. A full summary of the legislation follows here: Summary of The Child and Family Services Improvement and Innovation Act of 2011 Bipartisan The Child and Family Services Improvement and Innovation Act is the product of an agreement between the Chairmen and the Ranking Members of Senate Finance Committee and the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Human Resources. The legislation builds on a bill introduced by Chairman Davis and Ranking Member Doggett and legislation introduced by Chairman Baucus, Ranking Member Hatch and a number of Democratic and Republican Senators. The Child and Family Services Improvement and Innovation Act is fiscally responsible, improves state accountability and increases state flexibility. Improved State Accountability The Child and Family Services Improvement and Innovation Act includes several provisions dealing with the improper use of psychotropic drugs and the educational stability of children and youth in foster care that will provide greater transparency and increase state accountability in their use of limited federal dollars. The Child and Family Services Improvement and Innovation Act also promotes increased caseworker visits and support for families struggling with drug and alcohol abuse. Increased State Flexibility While increasing accountability, The Child and Family Services Improvement and Innovation Act increases state flexibility. For several years, states have been asking the federal government for relief from stringent and arbitrary federal restrictions on federal foster care dollars. The Child and Family Services Improvement and Innovation Act allows states to get relief from federal restrictions in order to implement innovative improvements designed to keep families safely together and improve outcomes for children and youth in foster care. Fiscally Responsible By folding in funding for effective court improvement programs into the baseline of the bill, The Child and Family Services Improvement and Innovation Act ensures that scarce federal resources are targeted to programs that are the most effective.
09.14.2011	September 14, 2011 Washington--Today, Rep. Doggett, Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Human Resources Subcommittee delivered the following speech on the Republicans' disapproval resolution.
09.14.2011	September 14, 2011 Washington--Today, Rep. Doggett, Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Human Resources Subcommittee delivered the following speech on the Republicans' disapproval resolution.
09.13.2011	A new deadline for privately run versions of the government’s Medicare program may trip up customers who typically wait until the holidays to settle on their health insurance coverage for the coming year.This fall’s open enrollment deadline for Medicare Advantage plans and Part D prescription drug coverage has been moved up nearly a month to Dec. 7.Here are some questions to consider this fall.What deadlines will change?Beneficiaries will receive their annual notice telling them about any changes in their coverage for next year by Sept. 30, which is a month earlier than last year. Insurers then will start marketing their 2012 plans on Oct. 1.This year’s open enrollment runs from Oct. 15 to Dec. 7. That’s a longer stretch than last year’s window of Nov. 15 to Dec. 31.But the health care overhaul calls for the earlier deadline to ensure that new coverage begins as planned on Jan. 1, according to a Senate Finance Committee aide.What happens if you miss the deadline and make no changes?This can get complicated. If the plan still is offered for 2012, then a customer who doesn’t make any changes remains enrolled. But details of that plan may change.If the plan is discontinued, customers may be switched to another Medicare Advantage plan offered by the same insurer. They also could be dropped into regular Medicare, which does not provide prescription drug coverage.Options do not completely dry up if a beneficiary misses the Dec. 7 deadline. From Jan. 1 to Feb. 14, Medicare Advantage customers can drop their plans and enroll in regular Medicare. They also can pick a Part D prescription drug plan, but they cannot jump to another Medicare Advantage plan.Should Medicare Advantage customers review their coverage if they don’t plan to make changes?Absolutely. Plans can change how they cover expenses from year to year. Any changes will be laid out in the annual notices consumers receive from their insurers.“People really, really need to look carefully and not assume that because something worked last year it will work this year,” Stein said.
09.09.2011	CCET will receive $500,000 to advance a plan for plug-in electric vehicle charging infrastructure between the “Texas Triangle” cities of Austin/San Antonio, Houston/Galveston, and Dallas/Fort Worth. CCET is a non-profit corporation that facilitates collaboration among technology companies, universities, and the electric industry for the purpose of modernizing and enhancing the Texas electric transmission and distribution system. The City of Austin will receive $499,782, which will be used by Austin Energy to develop processes and procedures to enable efficient and cost-effective placement of charging infrastructure between San Antonio and Georgetown. Several electric entities, from CPS in San Antonio to Bluebonnet Electric Cooperative in Bastrop, will collaborate on this project. “This grant further proves that Austin and San Antonio are taking the wheel and driving us away from the fuels of the past and toward an advanced vehicle future,” said Rep. Doggett. “Modern electric vehicles offer all the comfort, safety and convenience of their gasoline counterparts, save one thing—range limitations. The infrastructure to rid the consumer of “range anxiety” will cure that problem. Our Texas effort will lead the nation in developing the needed infrastructure to support electric vehicle travel among our major cities, and we’ll clean up the smog along the way,” said Dr. Milton Holloway, President and COO of the Center for the Commercialization of Electric Technologies. “We’re really proud to have our leadership recognized by the Department of Energy,” said Karl R. Rábago, Vice President of Distributed Energy Services at Austin Energy. “This money will support critical work that we can’t afford to do ourselves. It is the federal government doing what the federal government does best, which is provide us with the means to collaborate to get Central Texas ready for electric vehicles.”
09.09.2011	“This legislation is the result of problems that local veterans raised during discussions with me,” Congressman Doggett said. “They said, 'Wounded veterans should not be fired after they exhaust their sick and vacation days to receive care for injuries suffered while defending our Nation.' I agreed. They said, ‘There ought to be a law supporting our veterans.’ I agreed. And, I said that when my colleagues learn what some of our veterans are facing, they will agree with us too.” Over 45,000 Americans have been wounded as a result of their brave service in Iraq and Afghanistan. Of course, battlefield injuries don’t end on the battlefield and the transition back to civilian life for our soldiers can be long and difficult. Complications from amputations sometimes force veterans to return repeatedly to the VA for care. Or, what begins as a migraine may later be diagnosed as a Traumatic Brain Injury, requiring a battery of tests. Unfortunately, as the law is currently written, a veteran who exhausts his sick leave does not have adequate protections to get the help needed. The Wounded Veteran Job Security Act will: · Entitle veterans to protected leave for the treatment of service-related medical conditions; · Grant these service members the seniority and other rights and benefits they had prior to receiving treatment; and · Ensure these service members receive the same rights and benefits as other employees who are on furlough or a leave of absence. The Wounded Veteran Job Security Act has been endorsed by the American Legion, the Reserve Officers Association, Disabled American Veterans, and Veterans for Common Sense. “The needs of those in uniform do not end on the battlefield, and neither should our obligation to them,” Rep. Doggett said.
09.08.2011	Opening Statement of Human Resources Subcommittee Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett Mr. Chairman, as we take up the question of how to reauthorize the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program, I think we should focus on two goals: helping able-bodied recipients find the work that they need while protecting the safety net for struggling parents who are unable to do work because of disability, family crisis, or the fact that there’s not a job available. I believe much more work remains to be done on both counts. We’re caught up in the millions and the billions quite appropriately. But this is about looking into the face of one child who is left homeless on the streets because there’s no protection. Or it is about one in four children in this country who wakes up not knowing if there will be food at the end of the day from their family. We should be concerned about strip clubs or any abuse of this system and see that those who abuse these programs do not receive assistance whether they’re a pharmaceutical manufacturer or an individual welfare recipient. But I think our concern must be much broader. We should be concerned about protection that is stripped from the many needy families across this country. Even though the number of eligible poor families has increased substantially in these hard economic times, the participation in TANF has not increased by a similar ammount. In 2009, only one of every five children in poverty across America received any direct TANF assistance -- the lowest level of poor children receiving cash assistance since 1965. And in Texas, of course, matters are worse we only about one out of every twenty poor children receiving assistance. And when assistance is received, a family of three could expect to get about $244 a month -- less than 20 percent of the generally accepted poverty line. TANF has become, I believe, more hole than safety net, protecting fewer and fewer families as more and more have fallen deeper into poverty. We all want to see more families advance from TANF into full employment and the middle class. But so many are just struggling to just stay in the situation that they have now and have lost their chance to participate in the middle class. That goal is not achieved when caseloads decline due to a lack of access for poor families rather than a decline in the number of poor families. With fewer poor children and their families receiving TANF, now is not the time to do even less with significant spending reductions. I’m pleased to hear the chairman indicate that we might move fowrad with an extension, even if temporary, and I’m hopeful that extention will include the supplemental grant program that has already expired this summer. That’s what Texas and 16 other states rely upon, they would see up to a ten percent reduction in TANF funding without that. Over 15 years ago, as part of the 1996 reform of the welfare law, a reform that I personally supported, TANF Supplemental Grant funds were set aside to help the States that were negatively affected by the federal formula. Ever since, Texas and a number of States have depended on these monies in order to provide assistance that their families need even at the relatively low levels that Texas funds. Without action on this issue, states will lose more than $3 billion over the next ten years, $500 million of that in my state of Texas. The loss of these grants would place at risk a range of vital services, including efforts to ensure that children are cared for in their homes, child care assistance for working families, and job training. With funding for TANF expiring at the end of this month, it seems unlikely that Congress will design comprehensive legislation to reauthorize it. I do hope we can come together on a bipartisan temporary extension. Lest Mr. Chairman I direct all of my concerns at Republicans, of which I have many, I must concede that the Administration has largely been missing in action on this issue which impacts the lives of so many of our most vulnerable neighbors. I would urge the Administration to provide some leadership on improving the TANF program as we approach the current authorization expiration at the end of the month.
09.08.2011	“I welcome the news that the President has concurred with the Texas Democratic Delegation’s unanimous recommendation, on September 24, 2010, of Gregg J. Costa for federal judge for the Southern District of Texas. As one who has excelled in the law and dedicated most of his career to public service and pursuing justice, Mr. Costa will make a fine jurist. I am encouraged by today’s development and hope that his swift confirmation by the U.S. Senate will follow.”Gregg Jeffrey Costa has been an Assistant United States Attorney in the Southern District of Texas since 2005. He previously worked as an associate at the law firm of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP in Houston from 2002 to 2005. From 2001 to 2002, he served as a law clerk to the Honorable William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States. The previous year, he was a Bristow Fellow at the Office of the Solicitor General in the United States Department of Justice. From 1999 to 2000, Costa served as a law clerk to the Honorable A. Raymond Randolph of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Costa received his J.D. with highest honors in 1999 from the University of Texas School of Law, where he served as Editor in Chief of the Texas Law Review, and his B.A. in 1994 from Dartmouth College. Prior to attending law school, he taught elementary school from 1994 to 1996 in Sunflower, Mississippi through the Teach for America program.
09.06.2011	September 6, 2011 In 2004, CAPCOG used homeland security grant funds to purchase a regional Emergency Notification System (ENS). This system uses a "reverse dialing" telephone method to notify members of the public of critical emergency information in situations where property or human life is in danger. Originally, the system would only contact only those persons with regular, land-line telephone service. With the rise in the popularity of cellular telephones, an increasing number of persons no longer maintain traditional telephone service. Instead, they rely exclusively on their cellular telephones as their residence telephone. In response, CAPCOG has added the ability to notify you on your cell phone if there is an emergency near your home, business or other location. Persons may link their cellular telephone number to one or more locations within the 10-county CAPCOG region, including their homes, businesses and the homes of relatives. If a participating local government activates the system for an area that contains a location that has been registered to a particular cellular telephone number, the system will attempt to send the emergency message to that cellular telephone. PLEASE NOTE: This notification system only works within the Bastrop, Blanco, Burnet, Caldwell, Fayette, Hays, Lee, Llano, Travis and Williamson Counties. Emergency notification messages are initiated by local public safety agencies as one of several methods of relaying vital information to their citizens. To register for this service, click here. If you have previously registered and want to make changes, click here.
09.05.2011	September 5, 2011 BY ANNE HARRIS, AUSTIN CHRONICLE, 11:32PM, SUN. SEP. 4 More than seven wildfires in the Greater Austin area were reported on Sunday, including those in Pflugerville, Cedar Park, Spicewood, Steiner Ranch, and Bastrop. Forecasts of continuing wind gusts of up to 30 mph through Monday, and ongoing dry conditions prompted the National Weather Serviceto issue a Red Flag Watch for Labor Day. Efforts by state and local firefighters continue, their ranks strained by heat exhaustion and fatigue. Check the Texas Forest Service's active fires map here. On Sunday afternoon, Austin Fire Department called in 25 off-duty firefighters to join the effort. Counties under continued wind advisories are Bastrop, Caldwell, De Witt, Fayette, Gonzales, Lavaca, Lee, Travis, and Williamson. Of ongoing concern as of 1:00am, Monday, September 5th, are the following area fires: A fire that started at around noon on Sunday in the Circle D subdivision near Bastrop connected with one north of it and just south of Highway 290. The fire subsequently spread to four other subdivisions, forcing hundreds to evacuate their homes. By 11pm Sunday, the fire had hopped the Colorado river in two places and was reported to measure 16 miles long by four miles wide (more than 14,000 acres), destroying 300 homes and causing partial road closures on Highways 21 and 71. Bluebonnet Electric Cooperative has relocated to its backup site, and has cut power in advance of the fire. A 300-400 acre fire in Spicewood, near the southwest side of Lake Travis, heading east, and forcing evacuations in Fall Creek Estates and Pale Face Ranch Road. These evacuations are mandatory and call for residents to leave the area immediately. For more information on Spicewood fires call the Pedernales Fire Department at 512/264-1476. Agencies involved in this effort are Austin, Lake Travis, Westlake C-Bar, STARFlight 1 and 2, and the Pedernales and Spicewood Fire departments. Crews continue to battle a brush fire in Steiner Ranch near Highway 620 and Mansfield Dam. All Steiner Ranch residents must follow mandatory evacuation, and are being directed to the Vandergrift High School shelter (see below). To donate food and clothing to the Red Cross effort, call 512/928-4271, 800/928-4271. The Red Cross of Central Texas is operating the following shelters for evacuated residents: Vandergrift High School, 9500 McNeil Drive near 2222. Bastrop Middle School, 709 Old Austin Hwy., Bastrop Smithville Recreation Center, 106 Royston St., Smithville Dripping Springs Elementary School, 49400 RR 12, Dripping Springs Ascension Catholic Church, 802 Pine Street, Bastrop To register your whereabouts as an evacuee, call 512/581-4023. Evacuation updates are available at 512/974-6199. Please note that the Briarcliff Community Center and Hendrickson High School shelters have been closed and those residents are directed to Vandergrift High School. Other shelters: Bastrop Church of Christ (287 FM 20, 512-303-4597).
09.05.2011	The grant awarded to SolarBridge Technologies will go toward developing more robust and efficient production of solar energy. SolarBridge, a manufacturer of solar microinverters, is working on establishing a universal mechanism for connecting power conversion electronics to individual solar panels. Additionally, their microinverter technology will make solar power more efficient, reliable and safe for both residential and commercial photovoltaic systems. AstroWatt is a venture funded startup company based in Austin, Texas, and founded by two Austin area semiconductor veterans Dr. Dharmesh Jawarani and Leo Mathew in 2008. AstroWatt will use the funding to research low-cost, high-efficiency, thin silicon-based photovoltaic cells.“With these grant awards, Austin continues to show that its reputation as a clean tech leader is well-deserved,” said Rep. Doggett. “The solar energy solutions that we develop here in Austin help grow the green economy nationwide.”“SolarBridge is committed to dramatically reducing the cost of residential and commercial PV systems,” said Ron Van Dell, president and CEO of SolarBridge Technologies. “The DOE SunShot award will accelerate our development of an extremely low-cost microinverter and an innovative scheme for solar module integration.”“We are very pleased to have been selected by DOE as part of the Sunshot initiative to speed the development of AstroWatt’s ultra low cost high efficiency solar cells technology. The selection of AstroWatt in this highly competitive environment is a great validation of our technology. We look forward to our continued growth in the Austin area,” commented Curt Vass, CEO of AstroWatt, Inc.
08.30.2011	“If we want our children to be able compete in the 21st century economy, we have to invest in healthy and safe communities. This is one of the only funding sources that support these important efforts. This is vital seed money that has allowed us to create a solid foundation to ensure that our efforts are sustainable,” said TST Executive Director Nicole Holt. In 2006, TST was awarded a similar grant, which they used in collaboration with partners across the state to provide Regional Forums across Texas. These unique events brought together state and local level prevention advocates to the table for creating community change. Participants were equipped with the tools, information, and resources to help prevent substance abuse. This year’s Summit was made possible through support from the U.S. Department of Education's Office of Safe and Drug Free Schools grants for coalitions to prevent and reduce alcohol abuse at institutions of higher education, the Federal Center for Substance Abuse Prevention STOP Act grant, the REAL Alcohol Coalition of the University of Texas San Antonio, and YouthLaunch. The Summit was also made possible through support from additional community collaborators. TST is a statewide coalition of partner organizations working to support and create healthier and safer communities for young Texans. According to TST, “Our vision is to make alcohol, tobacco, and other drugs irrelevant in the lives of youth. We consist of community coalitions, individual adults and youth, state agencies and other organizations. We work to energize and mobilize citizens to advocate for community change, serve as a current and reliable information source and advocate to change attitudes, behaviors, and regulations to create healthier communities and protect our youth. We provide community coalitions with training and support to assist them in advancing positive change on the community level.”
08.26.2011	It’s fair to say Rep. Lloyd Doggett (R-Texas) is not impressed with a new study touting a proposed corporate tax holiday.The New Democratic Network (NDN), a left-leaning think tank, released a report Thursday stating that allowing multinationals to bring offshore profits to the United States at a low tax rate would add billions of dollars to the Treasury. The report also questioned assumptions — made in a Joint Committee on Taxation report — that the idea would be a revenue-loser over a decade. But Doggett, who asked for the JCT report, is unconvinced, continuing to argue that a previous holiday from several years back did little to spark the economy.“In fact, the JCT cost estimate of nearly $80 billion is likely too conservative and does not even address the full impact of a repeat of the 2004 corporate bonanza in lost jobs for hardworking Americans and windfalls for wealthy corporations and shareholders,” he said in a news release issued to The Hill. “It is outrageous that large multinationals continue to push for their massive tax break that past experience demonstrates will not create jobs or help our economic recovery,” Doggett added. In all, the NDN report states that a so-called “repatriation holiday” would cause a net gain of $8.7 billion over a decade. Robert Shapiro, a top Commerce official under President Clinton and a co-author of the NDN study, also said in a news release that a holiday was a sound policy option, even if the best approach was a broader overhaul of the corporate tax code.Repatriation supporters have also said they want corporate tax reform. But they say that process could take years, and a repatriation holiday could bridge the gap while policymakers work to revamp the tax code.For his part, Thomas Barthold, the JCT’s chief of staff, said that his committee would take a look at the NDN study. “The economic modeling of repatriation proposals is difficult, and the Joint Committee staff is always open to learning and to improving analysis of proposed changes in tax law,” Barthold said.
08.26.2011	It’s fair to say Rep. Lloyd Doggett (R-Texas) is not impressed with a new study touting a proposed corporate tax holiday.The New Democratic Network (NDN), a left-leaning think tank, released a report Thursday stating that allowing multinationals to bring offshore profits to the United States at a low tax rate would add billions of dollars to the Treasury. The report also questioned assumptions — made in a Joint Committee on Taxation report — that the idea would be a revenue-loser over a decade. But Doggett, who asked for the JCT report, is unconvinced, continuing to argue that a previous holiday from several years back did little to spark the economy.“In fact, the JCT cost estimate of nearly $80 billion is likely too conservative and does not even address the full impact of a repeat of the 2004 corporate bonanza in lost jobs for hardworking Americans and windfalls for wealthy corporations and shareholders,” he said in a news release issued to The Hill. “It is outrageous that large multinationals continue to push for their massive tax break that past experience demonstrates will not create jobs or help our economic recovery,” Doggett added. In all, the NDN report states that a so-called “repatriation holiday” would cause a net gain of $8.7 billion over a decade. Robert Shapiro, a top Commerce official under President Clinton and a co-author of the NDN study, also said in a news release that a holiday was a sound policy option, even if the best approach was a broader overhaul of the corporate tax code.Repatriation supporters have also said they want corporate tax reform. But they say that process could take years, and a repatriation holiday could bridge the gap while policymakers work to revamp the tax code.For his part, Thomas Barthold, the JCT’s chief of staff, said that his committee would take a look at the NDN study. “The economic modeling of repatriation proposals is difficult, and the Joint Committee staff is always open to learning and to improving analysis of proposed changes in tax law,” Barthold said.
08.25.2011	August 25, 2011 Washington—Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett announced that San Marcos-based K-W Construction Inc. will receive $7.6M in federal funds for phrase two of a project at Naval Air Station, Corpus Christi, also known as Truax Field. The project will include repairs and modernization to a World War II-era hanger and interior space modifications to two smaller buildings. “This funding will create vital jobs for our region while ensuring that our brave men and women in uniform are provided with facilities that match their valor,” said Rep. Doggett. The work is expected to be completed by November 2013.
08.19.2011	Mayor Flores was pleased to learn of the funding. “I am grateful to the support Mustang Ridge received from Congressman Doggett and look forward to the day we can celebrate the groundbreaking and ribbon-cutting of this new building.”
08.19.2011	Bobbi Ryder, President and CEO of NCFH, was pleased to learn of the funding. “This funding makes it possible for the National Center for Farmworker Health to provide training and technical assistance services to the network of 700+ Migrant and Community Health Centers nationally which collectively serve approximately 900,000 farmworkers. This health center network provides culturally competent, comprehensive primary health care that is responsive to the occupational health needs of agricultural workers and their family members in the rural areas where they live and work. Together we are responsible for improving the health status of those whose labor put healthy fruit and vegetables on the tables of American consumers.” Specifically, these federal funds will be used in a multi-faceted way to address needs through a menu of services designed to improve and expand access to care for farmworkers. Through key partnerships with Primary Care Associations, regional migrant health coordinators, the Farmworker Health Network, and others NCFH will provide various types of assistance to Migrant and Community Health Centers including: comprehensive training and technical assistance; development of models of care and tools for the implementation of Patient Centered Medical Home, Emergency Preparedness, and selected clinical performance improvement areas; data and analysis to identify geographic areas where growth should be targeted; farmworker-specific information services through a specialized, comprehensive library and resource center collection; availability of multiple communication channels for networking, sharing of best practices, and dissemination of resources and information.For more information, visit https://www.ncfh.org.
08.03.2011	August 3, 2011 Washington—Following the news today that the Senate approved the nomination of Judge Nelva Gonzales Ramos for U.S. District Judge, Southern District, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), chair of the Texas Democratic Delegation, issued the following statement: “Our Texas Democratic Delegation recommended Judge Nelva Gonzales Ramos on March 23, 2010, and she was officially nominated by President Obama on January 26, 2011. As a law student, she worked with me during my service as a Justice on the Texas Supreme Court. Now with her own distinguished record of judicial service, she brings insight both from her professional work and a lifetime of living in South Texas. Judge Ramos, along with Judge Diana Saldana, recently confirmed in Laredo, and Marina Garcia Marmolejo, whose nomination is still pending, represent historic changes in the diversity of the Texas federal judiciary. And they provide inspirational role models to young Latinas throughout Texas."
08.02.2011	August 1, 2011 Washington-- Tonight, after voting in favor for the debt deal, Rep. Doggett said: “As difficult as it was to vote for such a questionable deal to end a manufactured crisis, this is no time to play games with the full faith and credit of the United States. This faulty agreement does not end my determination to assure security for our seniors and educational opportunity for our youth. It only means that this struggle must be renewed on another day, when we seek a more balanced way of addressing our long term debt challenge.”
07.30.2011	July 30, 2011 Washington-- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett delivered the following remarks on the floor of the House of Representatives in support of the Reid debt solution."While imperfect and imbalanced, this Reid proposal protects educational opportunities for college students and retirement security through Medicare and Social Security. On important public services, it provides more resources than the reactionary House Republican budget," said Rep. Doggett. "With House Republicans still at fault for refusing to seek any middle ground, this proposal is the least worst alternative to avoid default."
07.29.2011	July 29, 2011 Washington-- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett delivered the following remarks in opposition to the Balanced Budget Amendment component of the Boehner debt plan.
07.28.2011	My neighbors in Texas are saying work together to resolve this crisis without jeopardizing Medicare and Social Security. Adopt a balanced approach that balances the budget by closing some tax loopholes at the same time that we make spending cuts. But agreeing has not been possible so far when so many of our House colleagues pride themselves in being disagreeable. Instead of protecting the full faith and credit of these United States in the same manner as our Republican colleagues voted to do seven times for President George W. Bush, today’s bill represents little more than a ransom note from who are using this critical issue to hold our country hostage.As their price for assuring our national creditworthiness, they demand that we jeopardize the security for the very young with educational opportunities, and for the old with social security and Medicare. Their ransom demands do not share the sacrifice—but they sure do spread the pain: to the young, to the old, to those who are trying to climb up the economic ladder, or just not slide backwards. They talk about tightening the belt—the only belt they’re really tightening is right around the neck of their hostages.Now is the time to stand firm for families and affirm that America will always pay our bills by rejecting this bill and by moving forward with more reasonable legislation. ###
07.27.2011	By Dana Milbank, The Washington Post Twenty Republican lawmakers crowded the Senate TV studio last week to issue a threat: Meet their demands, or they will force the United States to default. The only way to prevent the catastrophe, these Tea Party faithful said, was for the Senate to pass, and the president to sign, their plan to permanently cap spending at levels last seen in 1966, before Medicare made the nation soft. “We want to make very clear: This is not just the best plan on the table for addressing the debt limit — this is the only plan,” first-term Sen. Mike Lee (Utah) said, vowing that “we’re otherwise going to be blowing past the debt-limit deadline.” “We have a solution,” said Sen. Jim DeMint (S.C.). “It’s the only one that can be passed before the August 2nd deadline.” This is the language of gangster films: Do as we say — or the girl gets it. Yet listening to the 20 House and Senate Republicans recite their demands, it was clear they were deadly serious. And that’s why, even though a large majority of lawmakers want to avoid default, it could still happen. A Republican leadership aide has taken to calling them the “Default Caucus”: a universe of Republicans who would sooner see the federal government default than reach a compromise with President Obama. In the House, they may well have enough clout to block a deal. According to negotiation “game theory,” the Default Caucus has boosted Republicans’ leverage. “Your hand is greatly strengthened if you can convince the other side that you’re crazy,” said James Miller, an economist at Smith College. It has enabled House Speaker John Boehner to tell the president: The Tea Party has locked our steering wheel and we can’t swerve — so you have to. Reports of negotiations between Boehner and Obama suggest that the president has indeed swerved, offering Republicans $3 trillion in spending cuts in exchange for future increases in taxes. Yet even that offer, which liberals would regard as surrender, wouldn’t necessarily satisfy the Default Caucus. Obama seems to have made the rational assumption that after the Tea Party Republicans get most of what they want, they will strike a deal. But what if they aren’t bluffing and they really won’t settle for anything less than a constitutional amendment returning us to 1966? What if they aren’t merely pretending to be crazy enough to tank the economy but actually are? “That could be happening now, if the Democrats think the Republicans are willing to swerve but they’re really not,” Miller said. “The worst scenario is you’re a madman and you can’t convince the other person of that, because then you crash.” This possibility cannot be dismissed. So far, the Default Caucus is disregarding the advice of the Wall Street Journal editorial board, warnings from Standard & Poor’s, the record of Ronald Reagan and even the permission of Grover Norquist, the conservative loyalty enforcer who said that ending the Bush-era tax cuts would not violate lawmakers’ anti-tax pledges. The Default Caucus has dismissed all compromises. Obama and Boehner’s “Grand Bargain”? The “Gang of Six” proposal? Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell’s plan? No, nay, never. Even Tom Coburn’s plan to shave deficits by $9 trillion was disparaged as a “$1 trillion tax hike.” “You have a lot of members who don’t like the idea of a compromise,” CBS News’s Nancy Cordes pointed out to Boehner at his weekly news conference, “or who don’t even want to raise the debt ceiling. Have you told them that any deal is going to have to involve some compromise?” “I have,” the speaker said. “How?” Cordes asked. Boehner ignored her and solicited a different question. Fox News’s Chad Pergram asked the speaker if he has a “sense that some of your members are locked in and that they cannot compromise?” “I do not believe that would be anywhere close to the majority,” Boehner replied. No? A Pew Research Center poll last week found that 53 percent of Republicans, and 65 percent of Tea Party faithful, believe that the Aug. 2 default deadline can be ignored without major problems. At their televised session listing their demands, the Tea Party lawmakers chuckled when CNN’s Kate Bolduan asked if they were concerned about being blamed for default. DeMint explained that Obama “manufactured this crisis.” It’s a problem game theorists recognize. “You’re essentially empowering minorities so you can extract more,” said Daniel Diermeier of Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management. “But once you do that, if they are radical and don’t want to agree, you’re stuck, and the deal falls through.” danamilbank@washpost.com
07.27.2011	Caritas’ housing and housing stability programs, take a three-pronged approach to assisting clients – focusing on housing stability, income and self-care. Case managers support participants in processing the underlying conditions of their homelessness or risk and coordinate access to resources across community organizations. Case Managers assist program participants to increase their income through earned employment income or unearned income such as SSI, SSDI, VA benefits, Unemployment Insurance or Food Stamps. Clients are referred to appropriate internal and community-based employment education and self-sufficiency programs. “It’s a sad fact that some of our most vulnerable families are those who served in our armed forces,” said U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett. “I am grateful that we have organizations like Caritas out beating the pavement every day to make a difference in some of our neighbors’ lives and get them into places they can call home and equipped with the tools they need to become more financially stable.”Beth Atherton, Caritas Executive Director was pleased to hear news of the funding. “Caritas recognizes that prevention, intervention, and rapid re-housing are key strategies that reduce homelessness, decrease its recurrence and promote housing stability for low-income households, many of which are veterans. Caritas is glad to be granted this funding that will provide services that will help veterans reach self-sufficiency. It is our honor to serve our veterans with the array of support services we know are key to housing stability,” she said.Caritas of Austin has been serving low-income and homeless individuals and families since its inception in 1964. For more than four decades, Caritas has been integrally involved in local plans to end homelessness and has been committed to systemic change based on community trends.
07.27.2011	“Offshore tax abuses are not only undermining public confidence in our tax system, but increasing the tax burden on middle America,” said Senator Levin,who had introduced companion legislation in the Senate. “People are sick and tired of tax dodgers using offshore trickery and abusive tax shelters to avoid paying their fair share. This bill offers powerful new tools to combat offshore and tax shelter abuses, raise revenues, and eliminate incentives to send U.S. profits and jobs offshore. Its provisions, which can help stop the $100 billion per year drain on the Treasury, will hopefully be part of any deficit reduction package this year, but should be passed in any event.”“Abuse of tax havens is a serious problem that undermines our entire tax system, let alone leads to higher deficits. We must step up enforcement, close offshore tax loopholes and ensure that working families are not unfairly burdened because of people trying to avoid paying the taxes they owe,” said Congressman Levin, Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Committee.“Addressing tax haven abuse is a critical part of addressing our national deficit. Too many companies are avoiding taxes by sheltering money overseas, and this legislation will ensure this unfair practice is halted,” said Congresswoman DeLauro. “The cost, both in dollars and jobs, at a time when so many families are still struggling, is unacceptable.”The bill is supported by small business, labor, and public interest groups, including the Financial Accountability and Corporate Transparency (FACT) Coalition, American Sustainable Business Council, Business for Shared Prosperity, Main Street Alliance, AFL-CIO, SEIU, Citizens for Tax Justice, Tax Justice Network-USA, U.S. Public Interest Research Group, Global Financial Integrity, Global Witness, Jubilee USA, and Public Citizen.A number of provisions from past versions of the legislation have made it into law, such as measures to curb abusive foreign trusts, close offshore dividend tax loopholes, and strengthen penalties on tax shelter promoters.The Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act would authorize the Treasury Secretary to take special measures against foreign jurisdictions or financial institutions that impede U.S. tax enforcement, close offshore tax loopholes, and increase penalties on tax shelter promoters. A more detailed bill summary is attached.To read Rep. Doggett’s op-ed on the Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act, please click here.The bill would:AUTHORIZE SPECIAL MEASURES TO STOP OFFSHORE TAX ABUSE (§101) by allowing Treasury to take specified steps against foreign jurisdictions or financial institutions that impede U.S. tax enforcement.STRENGTHEN FATCA (§102) by clarifying under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act when foreign financial institutions and U.S. persons must report foreign financial accounts to the IRS.ESTABLISH REBUTTABLE PRESUMPTIONS TO COMBAT OFFSHORE SECRECY (§102) in U.S. tax and securities law enforcement proceedings by treating non-publicly traded offshore entities as controlled by the U.S. taxpayer who formed them, sent them assets, received assets from them, or benefited from them when those entities have accounts or assets in non-FATCA institutions, unless the taxpayer proves otherwise. STOP COMPANIES RUN FROM THE UNITED STATES CLAIMING FOREIGN STATUS (§103) by treating foreign corporations that are publicly traded or have gross assets of $50 million or more and whose management and control occur primarily in the United States as U.S. domestic corporations for income tax purposes.STRENGTHEN DETECTION OF OFFSHORE ACTIVITIES (§104) by requiring U.S. financial institutions that open accounts for foreign entities controlled by U.S. clients or open foreign accounts in non-FATCA institutions for U.S. clients to report the accounts to the IRS.CLOSE CREDIT DEFAULT SWAP (CDS) LOOPHOLE (§105) by treating CDS payments sent offshore from the United States as taxable U.S. source income.CLOSE FOREIGN SUBSIDIARY DEPOSITS LOOPHOLE (§106) by treating deposits made by a controlled foreign corporation (CFC) to a financial account located in the United States, including a correspondent account of a foreign bank, as a taxable constructive distribution by the CFC to its U.S. parent.REQUIRE ANNUAL COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING (§201) by SEC-registered corporations on employees, sales, financing, tax obligations, and tax payments.ESTABLISH A PENALTY FOR CORPORATE INSIDERS WHO HIDE OFFSHORE HOLDINGS (§202) by authorizing a fine of up to $1 million per violation of securities laws.REQUIRE ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING PROGRAMS (§§203-204) for hedge funds, private equity funds, and formation agents to ensure they screen clients and offshore funds.STRENGTHEN JOHN DOE SUMMONS (§205) by allowing the IRS to issue summons to a class of persons that relate to a long-term project approved and overseen by a court.COMBAT HIDDEN FOREIGN FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS (§206) by allowing IRS use of tax return information to evaluate foreign financial account reports, simplifying penalty calculations for unreported foreign accounts, and facilitating use of suspicious activity reports in civil tax enforcement.STRENGTHEN PENALTIES (§§301-302) on tax shelter promoters and those who aid and abet tax evasion by increasing the maximum fine to 150% of any ill-gotten gains.PROHIBIT FEE ARRANGEMENTS (§303) in which a tax advisor is paid a fee based upon the amount of paper losses generated to shelter income or taxes not paid by a client. REQUIRE BANK EXAMINATION TECHNIQUES (§304) to detect and prevent abusive tax shelter activities or the aiding and abetting of tax evasion by financial institutions.ALLOW SHARING OF TAX INFORMATION (§305) upon request by a federal financial regulator engaged in a law enforcement effort.REQUIRE DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO CONGRESS (§306) related to an IRS determination of whether to exempt an organization from taxation.DIRECT THE ESTABLISHMENT OF STANDARDS FOR TAX OPINIONS (§307) rendering advice on transactions with a potential for tax avoidance or evasion.
07.26.2011	July 26, 2011 Lieutenant Commander Michael was presented with the 2011 Military Times ‘Sailor of the Year’ award at their Service Member of the Year Ceremony in Washington, D.C. Pictured here U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett and Military Times Editor-in-Chief Alex Neill, Files is the epitome of the U.S. Navy’s motto, “Non Sibi Sed Patriae”—Not for Self, but Country. As a naval officer, role model, and community advocate, LCDR Files challenges everyone around him to advance personally and professionally, serve their community and honor their family. He has coordinated more than 45 community service projects totaling more than 4,000 services hours and saving communities 80,000. Understanding the value of education, LCDR Files founded and chairs ‘A Brighter Future Foundation,’ a non-profit international scholarship foundation. As a member of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, he participates in several national projects and committees: Big Brothers and Big Sisters, College Life to Corporate Life, March of Dimes, and the National Military Affairs Committee. In 2010, he was a Blacks in Government Meritorious Service Award recipient and received the “A World of Thanks” award. An Eagle Scout himself, he also continues to spend countless hours working with the Boy Scouts of America. Files, a graduate of Bowie High School and the U.S. Naval Academy, is the son of David and Jane Files. David, who is retired after working 25-years at the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality and Jane, who currently works for the Texas Department of Family and Protective Services, still reside in South Austin. Files younger sister, Amy Pool received her computer engineering degree from Texas A&M and currently works as an independent website application developer while raising twin girls.
07.19.2011	July 19, 2011 Washington—Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, chair of the Texas Democratic Congressional Delegation, issued the following statement after the news that U.S. Senators John Cornyn and Kay Bailey Hutchison today sent a letter to President Obama recommending Gregg J. Costa and Judge David C. Guaderrama to fill the judicial vacancies for the Southern District of Texas in Galveston and Western District of Texas in El Paso, respectively:“I welcome the news that the Senators have concurred with the Texas Democratic Delegation’s unanimous recommendation, on September 24, 2010, of Gregg J. Costa for federal judge for the Southern District of Texas in Galveston. Similarly, the Democratic Delegation’s recommendation of Judge David C. Guaderrama for the Western District of Texas in El Paso, has been pending for more than a month. We are encouraged by today’s development and hope their swift nomination by President Obama and confirmation will follow.”
07.19.2011	Accion also announced Monday that the U.S. Small Business Administrationhas approved it as a lender under a new federal program that aims to increase the number of loans in underserved communities. Launched in February, the Community Advantageprogram guarantees 85 percent of loans made up to $150,000 and 75 percent for loans larger than $150,000. It is a three-year pilot initiative. The designation allows Accion to make loans of up to $250,000 at all its offices; previously, the cap had been $100,000 in all cities except San Antonio. Under the program, lenders are expected to maintain at least 60 percent of their SBA loan portfolio in underserved markets such as low- to moderate-income communities and new businesses. Accion said its clients typically have lower-than-average incomes, and about 46 percent of its clients have been in business less than one year. Established locally in 1994, Accion provides loans to small-business owners who lack commercial credit. It has nine offices in Texas and four in Louisiana. It will add a lending service to Arkansas this year. It has made more than 12,000 loans during its existence totaling about $112 million. The organization previously said it hopes to reach 20,000 loans by its 20th year, 2014. Accion offers loans from $500 to $250,000. Express-News archives contributed to this report.
07.19.2011	Assistant Professor Maria Alejandra Sorto, are collaborating with two school districts in Central Texas and the Rio Grande Valley to investigate teaching practices that demonstrate results from students in mathematics learning. Eventually, the findings will be used to implement a Mathematics Bilingual Institute that would offer educators an opportunity to develop the tools and techniques needed to help Latino English Language Learners succeed in mathematics.Originally from Honduras and coming to the United States when she was 19, Sorto was an English Language learning student studying mathematics herself. Having conducted similar studies in Latin America, Sorto understands the teaching techniques that work for different types of students and how to integrate these techniques into classrooms.“I want to use rigorous methodology to make sure more Texas schools are able to use the methods that work best to teach mathematics to English Language Learning Students,” Sorto said.
07.19.2011	Lisa Garcia, vice president of assisted housing for the Austin Housing Authority, said the grant will allow the department to aid an additional 50 veterans move from the streets and shelters into stable housing. “This grant helps subsidize the rent so it’s affordable and connect veterans with necessary services so they can thrive in the Austin community,” Garcia said. The award is largely a result of the Housing Authority’s success serving veterans and streamlining services that help veterans quickly get affordable housing. The grant comes from federal funds under the HUD-VASH program. The Department of Veterans Affairs estimates that 106,558 veterans are homeless on any given night and approximately twice that many experience homelessness over the course of a year. According to the National Survey of Homeless Assistance Providers and Clients, veterans account for 23 percent of all homeless people in America. This grant is big step in ensuring all who have served this country have a secure place to sleep.
07.19.2011	“It’s sort of like what Research Triangle did” by landing International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)’s research facility, said LaCharles Keesee, 46, a former patent examiner who is now executive director for the Denver Office of Economic Development. “You could plant a scientific flag in the middle of your community and use that as a point of attraction to build an education community, an employment community.” Research Triangle Park, in the Raleigh-Durham area of North Carolina, was created in the 1950s by a partnership of universities and corporations to boost the state’s economy. The development has at least 170 companies including IBM, Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)and Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO), with 38,000 full-time jobs, according to the foundationthat oversees the facilities. Patent Leaders California, headquarters for Apple Inc. and Microsoft Corp., led U.S. states in patents granted last year, with 27,337, about 13 percent of the total issued, according to government data. Texas followed with 7,545. Colorado, home to the U.S. National Renewable Energy Laboratory, ranked 14th, just after North Carolina. Representatives of the patent agency, which employs about 9,500 people, including more than 6,000 examiners, wouldn’t say when the offices would open or discuss the selection process. Representative Doggett, a Democrat, pitched his state’s capital of Austin to patent office Director David Kappos in an April 4 letter also signed by three Republican representatives from Texas. A central Texas location would benefit computer maker Dell Inc. (DELL), based in Round Rock, and IBM, which employs technology workers in the area, as well as smaller companies. Austin’s ‘Ideal Location’ Texas is building “a trail of world-quality innovation, research, and entrepreneurship, and it puts Austin at the center of the next generation of technological breakthroughs,” making it “the ideal location,” Doggett said in an e-mail response to questions. Bennet and Senator Mark Udall, both Democrats, sent President Barack Obama a letter last year saying their state of Colorado is “perfectly suited to ensure a qualified workforce.” In a follow-up statementin February they said an office would create jobs and encourage innovation. “As a gateway of the West, Colorado is perfectly situated to connect innovators and businesses across the country.” Bennet said in an e-mail in response to questions. Silicon Valley Carl Guardino, chief executive officer of the Silicon Valley Leadership Groupin San Jose, California, which represents 345 area businesses including Apple, Google Inc. (GOOG)and Cisco said members of his group have met with 100 members of Congress to push for an office in California. “You hunt where the game is and the game is here in Silicon Valley,” Guardino said in an interview. While Keesee argued that Denver would be ideal, he said cities in the Northwest including Portland, Oregon, and Seattleshould be considered, as well as Atlanta. “As an examiner, it would be hard to overlook Atlanta” partly because of universities that have significant advanced programs in science and engineering, he said. “It’s a city that has all the things I just mentioned on steroids.” For the patent office, the satellite offices would provide a bigger labor pool at a time when the agency is trying to increase the number of examiners and cut down on turnover. It also would mean greater proximity to inventors, when increased direct interaction is seen as a way to focus applications and speed up the process, known as a patent prosecution. Application Backlog “It’s a challenge for any company in the country to have to go and defend their patent,” Erika Sumner, vice president for public policy for the Greater Austin Chamber of Commerce, said in an interview. “It makes sense to do it in a region.” There are almost 700,000 patent applications awaiting the first review by an examiner, and it takes, on average, about 34 months for the agency to complete the process. Kappos has said the new offices would increase the number of face-to-face patent examinations, which would likely lead to more efficient and quicker reviews. “It helps move things along,” said Christopher Ott, a trademark and copyright lawyer with Vorys Sater Seymour & Pease LLP in Washington and a former patent examiner. “Sometimes things don’t translate as well when you type them out.” Legislationapproved by the House of Representativeslast month gives the agency more control over its funding, sets new rules on how applications and issued patents are reviewed, and authorizes the satellite offices. The bill needs to be reconciled with a Senate measure passed in March and then signed by Obama. The commitment for the Detroit office, made in 2010 prior to the legislation, had been put on hold after Congress limited the money the agency could spend this fiscal year. Detroit Tech Boom Detroit was selected first because of the area’s high percentage of scientists and engineers, as well as its patent output, the agency said in March. Expertise in cloud computing, mobile-software applications and energy management have been in demand as automakers including General Motors Co. (GM)and Ford Motor Co. (F)replace car stereos with Internet radio and gasoline engines with motors powered by lithium-ion batteries. Online streaming music providers Pandora Media Inc. and Mog Inc., have opened offices in the area. Google, based in Mountain View, California, has a facility in Birmingham, Michigan, where it’s been looking for sales associates to work with the auto industry. Technology job postings in the Detroit area doubled last year, making it the fastest-expanding region in the country for technology jobs, according to Dice Holdings Inc. (DHX), a job- listing website. ‘Obvious Location’ The remote offices may also help the agency recruit examiners who may not want to live in the Washington area. “When you open offices in places where people want to be, like Austin and California, it increases the likelihood you get people in the door,” Ott said. While he has been lobbying lawmakers, Guardino said he hoped the decision would be left to the patent office and away from political influence. Silicon Valley would emerge as “the obvious location,” he said, even with its high cost of living. Whatever the location, local officials agree it’s time for the patent office to expand its footprint to areas responsible for the most patents. Virginiaand Washington, D.C. were ranked 20th and 49th in patents issued last year, trailing states including Arizona, Florida, Massachusettsand Wisconsin. “The patent community is way too centralized in Washington,” Keesee said.
07.18.2011	BCL of Texas is a public non-profit corporation created in 1990 and received a charter from the U.S. Small Business Administration to facilitate commercial real estate loans. Today BCL of Texas provided business counseling and access to capital and is the only statewide SBA micro lender in Texas. The BCL of Texas board consists of representatives from area banks, businesses, community and governmental organizations. Through public sector financing programs, BCL of Texas has facilitated over $300 million in business lending, provided over 14,000 hours of business counseling and created over 4,000 jobs all which stimulate the economic growth and development of the communities it serves. Its main stay, the Small Business Administration 504 Loan Program enables small businesses to access long term capital markets for financing at or below the prevailing market rates typically offered by conventional bank financing. BCL of Texas also administers an Economic Development Administration Revolving Loan Fund Program and is an intermediary small business lender for the U.S. Department of Agriculture helping rural businesses to access capital. Through its public sector financing programs, BCL of Texas offers the best long term financing structure available to most small businesses for continued growth and expansion. “For more than 21 years, we have been working to grow Texas businesses and today, the opportunity to do so remains strong. We are excited to receive the CDFI funding and are ready to put that money to good use. BCL of Texas is true to its mission, jobs creation through women, minority, rural and veteran owned businesses as our highest priority,” said Rosa Rios Valdez, Executive Director, BCL of Texas. ###
07.17.2011	U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett, who supported the grant application at the federal level, praised Hays CISD’s efforts to win the grant. “At the time the clinic was founded, Hays County was designated as a "medically underserved" county and the clinic was the only source for primary and secondary health care for many in the Kyle/Buda area. It has served as the medical home for hundreds of families and has served thousands of children in the county. As the Hays County population continues to grow, so do the needs of the WELL Clinic,” said Rep. Doggett. The WELL Clinic currently provides immunizations, physical examinations, sports physicals, diagnosis and treatment of minor illnesses and injuries, case management of chronic illnesses, prescription medications as needed, and health education on nutrition, disease and injury prevention. The proposed new WELL clinic facility will accommodate approximately 7,000 patients annually, nearly double the current 3,600 patients who access clinic services each year. Plans call for the new 3,395 square-foot building to include: nine exam rooms, a hearing testing room, sick waiting and well waiting areas, a vitals area, a nurses station, offices for providers, and work and storage space. “We are thrilled to have been awarded this grant. This has made it possible for us to build a permanent medical home for our patients. We are looking forward to expanding our services and working with the community to help ensure the health of the students in our district. After all, healthy students learn better!” said Hays CISD Director of Student Health Services Ruth Roberts. The $500,000 grant to Hays CISD was part of a larger $95 million grant award announcement from the United States Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA). A total of 278 school-based health centers (SBHCs) across the country were awarded grants, and Hays CISD was one of only seven recipients from Texas. These programs will improve access to basic primary health care for school-aged children, many of whom have no other sources of care. The School-Based Health Centers Capital (SBHCC) Program (HRSA-11-127) is the first-ever source of federal funding to uniquely support school-based health centers. ###
07.17.2011	ACCIÓN, established in San Antonio in 1994, is a nonprofit organization whose mission is to provide loans to small business owners who lack access to commercial credit. The nation’s largest nonprofit microlender, ACCIÓN has lending sites in 10 Texas cities and four in Louisiana, with a new operation set to open later this year in Arkansas. The microenterprise company offers loans from $500 to $250,000. ###
07.15.2011	This most recent award was largely a result of the Housing Authority of the City Austin’s success serving our Nation’s veterans. The Housing Authority has formed a productive relationship with the Department of Veteran Affairs and has streamlined services so veterans can quickly secure affordable housing. With this additional award, the Housing Authority will serve 195 veterans total. Lisa Garcia, Vice President of Assisted Housing for the Housing Authority of the City of Austin was pleased to hear news of the funding. “The Housing Authority of the City of Austin is excited to have the opportunity to assist homeless veterans obtain affordable housing. The funds provided by HUD will assist an additional 50 homeless veterans, who can move from the streets or shelters into a stable housing situation. This grant helps subsidize the rent so it’s affordable and connect veterans with necessary services so they can thrive in the Austin Community,” she said. The Department of Veterans Affairs estimates that 106,558 veterans are homeless on any given night and approximately twice that many experience homelessness over the course of a year. Conservatively, one out of every three homeless men who is sleeping in a doorway, alley or box in our cities and rural communities has put on a uniform and served this country. According to the National Survey of Homeless Assistance Providers and Clients, veterans account for 23% of all homeless people in America.
07.14.2011	Known as the HALT Act ("Hinder the Administration's Legalization Temptation Act"), the bill would suspend until January 21, 2013 the powers of this president to deprioritize certain deportations and legal proceedings in order to prioritize the removal of convicted, serious criminals and other threats. Rep. Doggett and his colleagues at the press conference pointed out that the powers the HALT Act would restrict are the same prosecutorial powers that Rep. Smith and others have called on previous presidents to use to prevent the deportation of law-abiding immigrants, including in a 1999 letter to then-Attorney General Janet Reno [linked to here, signed by Rep. Smith]. The New York Times, in an editorial Wednesday, said Rep. Smith's changed position on the use of prosecutorial discretion was "Hard to explain…although hypocrisy and rank opportunism seem likely."“This contradiction demonstrates yet another attempt by Representative Smith to engage in a political game centered on blaming our broken immigration system on immigrants,” said Rep. Doggett. “This is nothing more than a distraction from genuine efforts to improve our immigration system and through modest reforms like finally exacting the DREAM Act to give students the opportunity to achieve their full, God-given potential.” Prosecutorial guidelines released June 17 by ICE Director John Morton called on his agency to prioritize criminal deportations over the deportation of non-criminals with deep ties to America, including students brought here at a young age. Rep. Smith objects to such prioritization and wants to prevent any consideration of extenuating circumstances, conditions in the home country (including natural disasters and civil war), and almost any other consideration that could delay or prevent a deportation. A companion bill from Sen. David Vitter is expected in the Senate. Rep. Lloyd Doggett is a strong supporter of comprehensive immigration reform and a four-time sponsor of the DREAM Act.
07.13.2011	Assistant Professor Maria Alejandra Sorto is collaborating with two school districts in Central Texas and the Rio Grande Valley to investigate teaching practices that demonstrate results from students in mathematics learning. Eventually, the findings will be used to implement a Mathematics Bilingual Institute that would offer educators an opportunity to develop the tools and techniques needed to help Latino English Language Learners succeed in mathematics. Sorto is uniquely equipped to conduct this study. Originally from Honduras and coming to the United States when she was 19, Sorto was an English Language learning student studying mathematics herself. Having conducted similar studies in Latin America, Sorto understands the teaching techniques that work for different types of students and how to integrate these techniques into U.S. classrooms. “I want to use rigorous methodology to make sure more Texas schools are able to use the methods that work best to teach mathematics to English Language Learning Students,” said Sorto.
07.12.2011	[Text of Ranking Member Doggett's remarks as delivered follow below] Each weekend that my wife and I are back in Texas, we try to devote a little bit of time to our three pre-school granddaughters. The joy of being with them and witnessing their growth, their learning, their creativity, and also their innocence and vulnerability are in such contrast, from homes where they are surrounded by love, compared with what we see played out on national TV, with the abuse and death of too many young children. Today, we conduct a bipartisan exploration of what we can do about the gap between those children who are surrounded by loving and supportive families, and those who are not. I think we recognize that the death of even one child due to abuse and neglect is just too many. We are aware that there are so many, many children across the country who lose their lives or are permanently scarred by abuse from a caretaker. We know that there are many reasons why this happens—but the goal of today’s hearing must be to improve our understanding of these causes and what we can do to prevent this kind of maltreatment of children; certainly poverty, teenage parenting, substance abuse, and mental health challenges are among the considerations. We must ensure that we don’t make matters worse than they are today by slashing services that are important to ensure child protection—even though there are many gaps in those services. Nor can we afford to slash the wider safety net for our families. As my neighbor in Austin, Dr. Jane Burstain, eloquently states in her written testimony, “To cut programs that support struggling families in tough economic times is the very definition of penny wise and pound foolish and is a choice our children could pay for with their lives.” Regrettably, the lives of children have not always gotten top priority. They are not necessarily— despite the full house today and the many advocates who are here—the best lobbied force in the country. In my home state of Texas, the legislature just concluded with a more than 40 percent cut in certain child abuse prevention programs, even though my home state of Texas has one of the highest rates of child abuse and neglect deaths in the country. Here in Washington, I have concerns about the proposal in the House—the House Republican budget—to eliminate the social services block grant program which provides some funding that is very important in child protective services. I am also concerned that the child welfare programs that we studied in our last committee hearings, as well as the TANF program, which is important in so many states for providing assistance to low-income families, are about to expire. As a result of the work of this committee, I hope we can come up with bipartisan legislation to continue these programs and learn from the experience. I have just recently filed legislation concerning the TANF supplemental grants, which were part of the original 1996 law, that are very important in Texas and 15 other states in providing services. I hope out of today’s hearing, we can gain more insight from our expert witnesses and out of this, can come together with effective legislation to try to respond to some of these matters that concern all of us so deeply. ###
07.12.2011	July 12, 2011 After more than 40 years, Reverend Marvin C. Griffin celebrated his retirement from <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags"> Ebenezer Baptist Church in East Austin this past weekend with family and friends, including U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett. “It is with great joy that I come to honor a spiritual leader, a community leader, and a friend. I first met Dr. Griffin and Lois during his third year at Ebenezer,” said Rep. Doggett. “Since those days, through many NAACP dinners and other community events, we have inaugurated projects here along East 11th as well as opened the Carver Library. Reverend Griffin reminds us of what George Washington Carver said: ‘Where there is no vision, there is no hope.’ I think we can all agree that Reverend Griffin’s vision has given all Austinites hope. Just as Ebenezer quite literally is a ‘stone of help’ to so many, Reverend Griffin has been a ‘rock’ to this church and to this community.” Pictured here are Dr. Marvin C. Griffin and Rep. Doggett.
07.07.2011	July 7, 2011
07.07.2011	July 7, 2011
07.07.2011	July 7, 2011
07.07.2011	July 7, 2011 Washington-- Today, in the House Ways and Means Committee mock mark-up of three pending trade agreements, Rep. Doggett voiced his strong belief that the United States needs a "new, 21st Century Trade Policy" that recognizes the importance of worker and environmental standards. You can watch that video below:
07.07.2011	July 7, 2011 Washington-- Today, in the House Ways and Means Committee mock mark-up of three pending trade agreements, Rep. Doggett voiced his strong belief that the United States needs a "new, 21st Century Trade Policy" that recognizes the importance of worker and environmental standards. You can watch that video below:
07.01.2011	July 1, 2011 By Kate Weidaw Six decades later veteran gets medals: kxan.com AUSTIN (KXAN) - As most of us get ready to head into the 4th of July weekend, a weekend to celebrate our independence, one Austin veteran is finally being recognized for his efforts during World War II. "Right now I'm afraid to say I'm 86 years old," said Benjamin Mendoza, WWII Vet. Mendoza has seen a lot in his 86 years. He spent 27 of them in the Army. For three years during World War II he fought in the Philippines, New Guinea, and Guam. "I spent 180 days in continuous combat," said Mendoza. He suffered from malaria and often questioned whether he would survive. "We ran out of ammunition, food, and water," said Mendoza. While his efforts overseas were highlighted in the newspaper they went virtually unrecognized by the military. "I was in a medical tent and I didn't sign any forms, I wanted the war to get over with and get out of there. You don't think about medals, you don't think about anything," said Mendoza. And he continued to not think anything about it until he started telling old war stories to his family and displaying some of his war memorabilia on the wall. "Here you have not just my dad but a guy who did all these things in the military and we never knew about it," said Erica Ojeda, Mendoza's Daughter. But when Mendoza's home burned to the ground in February and what military memorabilia he did have perished in the fire, his daughter Erica contacted Congressman Lloyd Doggett to figure out what happened to his military medals. "Apparently they were with his separation documents back when he left the military but were some how not provided to him," said Congressman Lloyd Doggett. After waiting nearly six decades, the Congressman presented Mendoza with his well deserved medals during a ceremony at Juan In A Million in East Austin Thursday. "We have a wall full or table full of presentations to make to you," said Doggett. Mendoza received not one, not two, but 11 medals for his service. "And of particular importance his bronze star medal for serving," said Doggett. "To see him this happy, that's what we wanted," said Ojeda. "I feel that my mission has been accomplished," said Mendoza. Mr. Mendoza is still waiting to receive the Purple Heart. Congressman Doggett's office said they are working on it.
06.30.2011	June 30, 2011 Austin-- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett was at Juan in a Million in East Austin to start celebrating Independence Day a few days elary by presenting Austin World War II Veteran, Benjamin Mendoza, with more than ten medals my office was recently able to seucre, including the Bronze Star, for his brave service to our country. He was wounded during a battle at Philippine Lake in Manila. He was encouraged to fill out paperwork after his injury to receive his medals, but said at the time, "I came here to help win a war. I didn't come here trying to be a hero." While stationed at Fort Hood, he and his friends would take a trip to Austin and visit 6th Street-- it was these visits when he made up his mind that he would move to Austin and see his children graduate from Austin schools. He used the GI Bill to attend college and became a bilingual substitute teacher. Only now-- more than 50 years later-- is Mr. Mendoza receiving the full recognition he deserves. "Helping folks with this kind of casework is one of the most important matters I can assist with," said Rep. Doggett. "Please contact me to help me better serve you."
06.23.2011	“In 2006, I was glad to be a part of Chapa’s Dedication Ceremony, so it is especially fulfilling to see this kind of success from the Cougars,” said Rep. Doggett. “Unfortunately, with State Republicans doing all they can do to make this kind of success even harder to achieve through the cut-and-run approach they have taken to the state budget, teachers at Chapa and elsewhere will have their jobs cut out for them. But I know that with schools like this leading the way, we can overcome the roadblocks to helping every student achieve their full God-given potential.”
06.23.2011	Representative Doggett said, “Over 15 years ago, funds were set aside to help States that were negatively affected by the formula used to disburse Federal funding for helping low-income families get back on their feet. Ever since, Texas and many other States have depended on these funds to help people leave welfare for work. At a time when so many services are being cut at both the state and federal level, I am calling on the Republican leadership in Congress to maintain this vital commitment to vulnerable families in Texas and around the country.” While the base Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program is funded through FY 2011, the Supplemental Grants paid under the program are scheduled to expire on June 30, and States received only a partial payment for the April-June quarter. The Supplemental Grants were established as part of the 1996 welfare law to reduce disparities between the States in the amount of Federal TANF funding provided relative to the number of individuals living below the poverty line in each State, and to address population increases preceding the law. If these grants are not extended, many of the 17 States now receiving them will have their total funding under TANF cut by roughly 10% during the next calendar quarter. The legislation introduced by Representative Doggett would continue to fully fund the TANF Supplemental Grants through FY 2011. Future extensions could then be considered during any broader reauthorization of the overall TANF program. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"> STATE Annual Amount States Receiving TANF Supp Grants Stand to Lose <?xml:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags"> Alabama $11.09 million Alaska $6.89 million Arizona $23.93 million Arkansas $6.21 million Colorado $13.57 million Florida $60.41 million Georgia $37.28 million Idaho $3.49 million Louisiana $17.02 million Mississippi $9.03 million Montana $1.13 million Nevada $3.73 million New Mexico $6.55 million North Carolina $36.11 million Tennessee $21.56 million Texas $52.70 million Utah $8.70 million Total $319 million
06.22.2011	June 21, 2011 Washington-- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett joined his colleagues in the Texas Congressional Delegation in supporting the renaming of the Post Office in Schertz, Texas, the Schertz Veterans Post Office. "With so many in the Schertz area who have contributed so much, there are not enough public buildings available to re-name them for individuals. With this bill, we are not just recognizing the heroism or contribution of a single former member of our armed forces, but of all the contributions made by veterans and their families in Schertz," Rep. Doggett said.
06.22.2011	June 21, 2011 Washington-- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett joined his colleagues in the Texas Congressional Delegation in supporting the renaming of the Post Office in Schertz, Texas, the Schertz Veterans Post Office. "With so many in the Schertz area who have contributed so much, there are not enough public buildings available to re-name them for individuals. With this bill, we are not just recognizing the heroism or contribution of a single former member of our armed forces, but of all the contributions made by veterans and their families in Schertz," Rep. Doggett said.
06.22.2011	June 21, 2011 San Marcos, TX-- At the American GI Forum’s State Convention Commanders’ Banquet held in <?xml:namespace prefix = st1> San Marcos, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett recognized the service and commitment of San Marcos Forum members and visited with Hays County Leaders like San Marcos Spirit Award winner, author, and community volunteer Ofelia Vasquez-Philo and San Marcos Mayor Daniel Guerrero. Rep. Doggett also paid tribute to the founder of the San Marcos GI Forum--the most decorated Hays County veteran, Augustin Lucio. This year, San Marcos Forum members presented him with an award for his support of the mission of the GI Forum and service to the community. “Let others blindly say, ‘My country right or wrong.’ The GI Forum has the courage to stand up and say, ‘My country: May I love it enough to right its wrongs.’ For the dignity, equality, and opportunity that are the promise of America, forum members have always been on the front line, whether standing up for the promises of Social Security and Medicare or fighting cuts to education,” said Rep. Doggett.
06.14.2011	
06.14.2011	
06.08.2011	The bill now goes to the GOP-controlled House, where approval is expected.Sen. Kel Seliger, an Amarillo Republican who chairs the Senate Select Committee on Redistricting, said the plan is fair to all Texans and will pass court muster. But critics said the subdivision of Travis County highlights how the map is unfair to minority voters."We can do better than this map and what it does to the State of Texas," said Sen. Kirk Watson, D-Austin, insisting the new district boundaries "silence the voices" of Travis County residents by "slicing, dicing and dividing it in an inexplicable way."Not one of the five districts that come into Travis County will represent more than 24 percent of Travis County. No single district is contained in Travis County, unlike what you see across the state."Because of Texas' population growth since the last U.S. census, four new congressional districts will be created statewide. Under the Senate plan, one will be in the Arlington area, one in South Texas, one that stretches from San Antonio to Austin and one that goes east from Houston.Seliger said the map is drawn to divide Texas' population of more than 25 million into districts containing 698,488 Texans apiece, as required by law. He rejected critics' suggestions that the boundaries were drawn intentionally to enable Republicans to be elected in 72 percent of the districts.Sens. Judith Zaffirini, D-Laredo, and Mario Gallegos Jr., D-Houston, said the map will divide Hispanic voting constituencies at a time when the state's Hispanic population is growing fast."Minorities across the state will be offended by this plan," Zaffirini said, echoing criticisms that some minority districts are being packed with more minority voters even as other minority voting blocs such as those in Travis County are being divided.Seliger said the plan complies with the federal Voting Rights Act and will be approved by the courts.Even so, Democrats harshly criticized the plan because of the boundary changes in Dallas, El Paso, San Antonio, Austin and Houston, predicting it will be overturned by expected lawsuits. "This plan belongs in the 20th century, not the 21st century ," said Sen. Eddie Lucio Jr., D-Brownsville.Seliger said that in Austin's case, where the new boundary lines will force U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, into a new district, there are no districts that are designated as minority-dominated and thus "protected," as there are in other areas, and that affected how the lines were drawn.Doggett, who lives in East Austin, would end up in a GOP-leaning district that runs to western Travis County, out to Blanco County and northwestern Hays County, and up to the Fort Worth suburbs. The new district would run from southeastern Travis to San Antonio. The other three would be GOP-friendly districts that stretch to Waco, San Antonio and the Houston area.In a statement late Monday, Doggett labeled the Senate plan "a blatant violation of the Voting Rights Act.""This outrageous scheme would do immeasurable harm to our community and the values that set it apart as such a unique place in which to work and live," he said.A plan offered by Gallegos that redrew many districts statewide — and would have given Travis County four representatives — was turned down 18-12. So was a plan offered by Sen. Royce West, D-Dallas, that would have left Travis County with just two districts."The blue jerseys have been shut out of this entire process," said West, referring to Democrats. By: Mike Ward https://www.statesman.com/news/texas-politics/senate-approves-new-congressional-districts-1522969.html
06.08.2011	The bill now goes to the GOP-controlled House, where approval is expected.Sen. Kel Seliger, an Amarillo Republican who chairs the Senate Select Committee on Redistricting, said the plan is fair to all Texans and will pass court muster. But critics said the subdivision of Travis County highlights how the map is unfair to minority voters."We can do better than this map and what it does to the State of Texas," said Sen. Kirk Watson, D-Austin, insisting the new district boundaries "silence the voices" of Travis County residents by "slicing, dicing and dividing it in an inexplicable way."Not one of the five districts that come into Travis County will represent more than 24 percent of Travis County. No single district is contained in Travis County, unlike what you see across the state."Because of Texas' population growth since the last U.S. census, four new congressional districts will be created statewide. Under the Senate plan, one will be in the Arlington area, one in South Texas, one that stretches from San Antonio to Austin and one that goes east from Houston.Seliger said the map is drawn to divide Texas' population of more than 25 million into districts containing 698,488 Texans apiece, as required by law. He rejected critics' suggestions that the boundaries were drawn intentionally to enable Republicans to be elected in 72 percent of the districts.Sens. Judith Zaffirini, D-Laredo, and Mario Gallegos Jr., D-Houston, said the map will divide Hispanic voting constituencies at a time when the state's Hispanic population is growing fast."Minorities across the state will be offended by this plan," Zaffirini said, echoing criticisms that some minority districts are being packed with more minority voters even as other minority voting blocs such as those in Travis County are being divided.Seliger said the plan complies with the federal Voting Rights Act and will be approved by the courts.Even so, Democrats harshly criticized the plan because of the boundary changes in Dallas, El Paso, San Antonio, Austin and Houston, predicting it will be overturned by expected lawsuits. "This plan belongs in the 20th century, not the 21st century ," said Sen. Eddie Lucio Jr., D-Brownsville.Seliger said that in Austin's case, where the new boundary lines will force U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, into a new district, there are no districts that are designated as minority-dominated and thus "protected," as there are in other areas, and that affected how the lines were drawn.Doggett, who lives in East Austin, would end up in a GOP-leaning district that runs to western Travis County, out to Blanco County and northwestern Hays County, and up to the Fort Worth suburbs. The new district would run from southeastern Travis to San Antonio. The other three would be GOP-friendly districts that stretch to Waco, San Antonio and the Houston area.In a statement late Monday, Doggett labeled the Senate plan "a blatant violation of the Voting Rights Act.""This outrageous scheme would do immeasurable harm to our community and the values that set it apart as such a unique place in which to work and live," he said.A plan offered by Gallegos that redrew many districts statewide — and would have given Travis County four representatives — was turned down 18-12. So was a plan offered by Sen. Royce West, D-Dallas, that would have left Travis County with just two districts."The blue jerseys have been shut out of this entire process," said West, referring to Democrats. By: Mike Ward https://www.statesman.com/news/texas-politics/senate-approves-new-congressional-districts-1522969.html
06.02.2011	Point Austin: Coming Home to Austin Latest gerrymander reflects Capitol contempt for capital By Michael King You've got to wonder what it will take to make "True Orangebloods" (as they like to call themselves) finally have quite enough of Rick Perry and his carpetbagging friends from the Texas provinces. The 82nd legislative session has not exactly been a friendly one for the folks at UT-Austin. First there were Perry's broad-stroke budget cuts, dictated not by fiscal necessity (hence the refusal even to consider rational deployment of the Rainy Day Fund) but by political dogma, adhering blindly to a "no tax" fanaticism even while forcing state costs downward onto counties and cities lacking the capacity to bear them (even forbidden by state law from adequately doing so). On the budget block, higher education was treated as shabbily as public schools, perhaps with a little less fanfare. Then came the clumsy attempts to turn university education into simply a cost-center rather than an investment in citizenship and the future. Perry began promoting a cut-rate, $10,000 degree, with a crony comparing the difference to that between a utilitarian "Chevy" and a luxury "Cadillac" education. (Folks driving Cadillacs are endlessly eager to tighten other people's belts.) Finally, an appointed education "consultant" to the UT Sys­tem board of regents began denigrating the usefulness of university research and suggested that most undergraduate teaching could be accomplished by low-paid and untenured lecturers (better known in the academic trade as itinerant, expendable sharecroppers). In fairness, $200,000 consultant Rick O'Donnell was sent packing after an uproar from UT administrators and even the Texas Exes, not to mention a newspaper analysis of his own "scholarship" at the Texas Public Policy Foundation that showed it was riddled with elementary errors. Yet can you imagine the uproar at the Forty Acres (and across the state) if some hired gun proposed slashing UT football expenditures (or those at A&M) to a level that represented, oh, $10,000 a player? Or perhaps the suggestion that most coaching could be handled quite well by 25-year-old graduate assistants – younger, cheaper by the dozen, and much less likely to create market-rate salary wars with the likes of Florida and Ohio State? Twisting the Knife I'm pondering these unanswerable questions in the wake of the Lege's latest assault on Austin, the proposed five-way split of congressional districts that would leave most of Travis County "represented" by far-away Republican congressmen. Even Tom DeLay never contemplated quite this radical a vivisection of the capital city of his home state; Senate Redistricting Chair Kel Seliger now has bragging rights over the Hammer. Longtime Austin Rep. Lloyd Doggett, who's gotten wearily accustomed to being targeted by GOP lawmakers determined to draw him out of Congress since they can't defeat him at the ballot box, says he's ready to "live in a Winnebago" if that's what it takes to outfox the GOP gerrymander. He told the Chronicle's Lee Nichols that the latest map is "cunning and malicious, but it's definitely not crazy. They have a well-conceived scheme to impose [Republican] rule on our county." An earlier four-district map, proposed by San Antonio Republican Lamar Smith, Doggett said, "had a dagger he plunged right into the heart of our community, and now they're just twisting and turning it to cut us up one more way. ... It's more of the same, though a more vicious attack perhaps, in that it's really five crooked congressional districts." Whatever the final map looks like – and there will likely be several iterations on the way through the committees and the courts – you have to wonder at such a persistent, even obsessive "republican" (i.e., allegedly representative) effort to make certain that the citizens of Travis County be prevented from electing a member of Congress who actually represents our interests, as we see them. A simpler way to put it: Why do these guys hate Austin so much? No Education Without Representation Of course, conservative legislators – Republican and Democratic, stretching back decades – have always had a hate-love relationship with the capital city. Even while many of them attended UT or its law school – heaven forbid Lone Star offspring go east or west for college – they learned early that Austin-bashing and attacks on the "People's Republic" always play well in the provinces. Yet like many a once-homesick freshman, given a taste of this den of sophisticated iniquity, they find reasons to hang around post-graduation. Many maintain (campaign-financed) homes here as well as in their districts, and if threatened with exile by defeat or retirement, they slide effortlessly into the lobby rather than return to the less-cosmopolitan Piney Woods or played-out oil fields. Just can't keep 'em down on the farm, after they've seen UT. Fair enough. After all, most of us who live here now are sometime immigrants. But if we're good enough to welcome all these wanna­be Austinites at Homecoming, we should be damn well good enough to have our own elected representative in Washington, D.C., and not have to go begging to a hostile proxy official in San Antonio or Fredricksburg or by-God Fort Worth when we want our voices heard on federal matters. Austinites may not be a "protected class" under the Voting Rights Act – and God knows that statewide, African-Americans and Hispanics are much more abused by this tyrannical voting-fraud-by-gerrymander than we are – but it's about time that these citified country boys acknowledge that we have a constitutional right to actual, effective representation in Congress. Those suburbanites who joined the tea party backlash in November thought "waste and fraud" were on the chopping block, only to discover that their own school districts would be savaged by budget cuts, along with health care and nursing homes. In the same way, the thousands of Texas Exes who claim undying loyalty to UT-Austin need to open their eyes and see what's happening to their beloved alma mater and her home, all in the name of Perry's presidential ambitions and the divine right of rich white folks to run absolutely everything. The eyes of Texas are upon you. The Senate Redistricting Committee has scheduled a public hearing on the latest redistricting map: Fri­day, June 3, 9am, in Room E1.016 in the Capitol Extension.
06.02.2011	Point Austin: Coming Home to Austin Latest gerrymander reflects Capitol contempt for capital By Michael King You've got to wonder what it will take to make "True Orangebloods" (as they like to call themselves) finally have quite enough of Rick Perry and his carpetbagging friends from the Texas provinces. The 82nd legislative session has not exactly been a friendly one for the folks at UT-Austin. First there were Perry's broad-stroke budget cuts, dictated not by fiscal necessity (hence the refusal even to consider rational deployment of the Rainy Day Fund) but by political dogma, adhering blindly to a "no tax" fanaticism even while forcing state costs downward onto counties and cities lacking the capacity to bear them (even forbidden by state law from adequately doing so). On the budget block, higher education was treated as shabbily as public schools, perhaps with a little less fanfare. Then came the clumsy attempts to turn university education into simply a cost-center rather than an investment in citizenship and the future. Perry began promoting a cut-rate, $10,000 degree, with a crony comparing the difference to that between a utilitarian "Chevy" and a luxury "Cadillac" education. (Folks driving Cadillacs are endlessly eager to tighten other people's belts.) Finally, an appointed education "consultant" to the UT Sys­tem board of regents began denigrating the usefulness of university research and suggested that most undergraduate teaching could be accomplished by low-paid and untenured lecturers (better known in the academic trade as itinerant, expendable sharecroppers). In fairness, $200,000 consultant Rick O'Donnell was sent packing after an uproar from UT administrators and even the Texas Exes, not to mention a newspaper analysis of his own "scholarship" at the Texas Public Policy Foundation that showed it was riddled with elementary errors. Yet can you imagine the uproar at the Forty Acres (and across the state) if some hired gun proposed slashing UT football expenditures (or those at A&M) to a level that represented, oh, $10,000 a player? Or perhaps the suggestion that most coaching could be handled quite well by 25-year-old graduate assistants – younger, cheaper by the dozen, and much less likely to create market-rate salary wars with the likes of Florida and Ohio State? Twisting the Knife I'm pondering these unanswerable questions in the wake of the Lege's latest assault on Austin, the proposed five-way split of congressional districts that would leave most of Travis County "represented" by far-away Republican congressmen. Even Tom DeLay never contemplated quite this radical a vivisection of the capital city of his home state; Senate Redistricting Chair Kel Seliger now has bragging rights over the Hammer. Longtime Austin Rep. Lloyd Doggett, who's gotten wearily accustomed to being targeted by GOP lawmakers determined to draw him out of Congress since they can't defeat him at the ballot box, says he's ready to "live in a Winnebago" if that's what it takes to outfox the GOP gerrymander. He told the Chronicle's Lee Nichols that the latest map is "cunning and malicious, but it's definitely not crazy. They have a well-conceived scheme to impose [Republican] rule on our county." An earlier four-district map, proposed by San Antonio Republican Lamar Smith, Doggett said, "had a dagger he plunged right into the heart of our community, and now they're just twisting and turning it to cut us up one more way. ... It's more of the same, though a more vicious attack perhaps, in that it's really five crooked congressional districts." Whatever the final map looks like – and there will likely be several iterations on the way through the committees and the courts – you have to wonder at such a persistent, even obsessive "republican" (i.e., allegedly representative) effort to make certain that the citizens of Travis County be prevented from electing a member of Congress who actually represents our interests, as we see them. A simpler way to put it: Why do these guys hate Austin so much? No Education Without Representation Of course, conservative legislators – Republican and Democratic, stretching back decades – have always had a hate-love relationship with the capital city. Even while many of them attended UT or its law school – heaven forbid Lone Star offspring go east or west for college – they learned early that Austin-bashing and attacks on the "People's Republic" always play well in the provinces. Yet like many a once-homesick freshman, given a taste of this den of sophisticated iniquity, they find reasons to hang around post-graduation. Many maintain (campaign-financed) homes here as well as in their districts, and if threatened with exile by defeat or retirement, they slide effortlessly into the lobby rather than return to the less-cosmopolitan Piney Woods or played-out oil fields. Just can't keep 'em down on the farm, after they've seen UT. Fair enough. After all, most of us who live here now are sometime immigrants. But if we're good enough to welcome all these wanna­be Austinites at Homecoming, we should be damn well good enough to have our own elected representative in Washington, D.C., and not have to go begging to a hostile proxy official in San Antonio or Fredricksburg or by-God Fort Worth when we want our voices heard on federal matters. Austinites may not be a "protected class" under the Voting Rights Act – and God knows that statewide, African-Americans and Hispanics are much more abused by this tyrannical voting-fraud-by-gerrymander than we are – but it's about time that these citified country boys acknowledge that we have a constitutional right to actual, effective representation in Congress. Those suburbanites who joined the tea party backlash in November thought "waste and fraud" were on the chopping block, only to discover that their own school districts would be savaged by budget cuts, along with health care and nursing homes. In the same way, the thousands of Texas Exes who claim undying loyalty to UT-Austin need to open their eyes and see what's happening to their beloved alma mater and her home, all in the name of Perry's presidential ambitions and the divine right of rich white folks to run absolutely everything. The eyes of Texas are upon you. The Senate Redistricting Committee has scheduled a public hearing on the latest redistricting map: Fri­day, June 3, 9am, in Room E1.016 in the Capitol Extension.
06.02.2011	“I think this map is so far from reality and in so much violation of the law, it’s premature to say,” Doggett said in a phone interview. “It’s the only district in the area that has enough of my district, enough Democrats at this point, but again, I haven’t made any final decision.” Instead, Doggett and his fellow Democrats are planning to take the map to court. Texas’ new Congressional lines must be cleared by the Justice Department for appropriate minority voting power, and the Congressman was quick to declare that the proposed map is in clear violation of the Voting Rights Act. “It’s an outrageous map. It is a map that means that you will have Members of Congress who are less accessible, less accountable,” Doggett said. “Once those forums are resolved, I hope we will have better maps than we do today.” In the meantime, state lawmakers will consider the proposed map as part of a special legislative session that began Tuesday morning. There might be additional tweaks to the map, but it’s highly unlikely the Legislature would do anything to accommodate Doggett. After all, this isn’t the first time Doggett has faced a redistricting-related challenge. When then-House Majority Leader Tom DeLay’s (R) aides redrew the lines in 2003, Doggett’s district was stretched all the way down to the Mexican border. Doggett noted that DeLay aide Jim Ellis wrote in an August 2003 memo: “We must stress that a map that returns Frost, Edwards and Doggett is unacceptable and not worth all of the time invested into this project.” He was referring to then-Reps. Martin Frost and Chet Edwards, Democrats who were defeated in the last decade. “Well, I’m the last one there, and there’s no doubt they would like to finish the work,” Doggett said. And if the proposed map stands, Doggett is left with two less-than-appealing options as future districts. On the surface, the newly drawn 35th district would be ideal territory for Doggett, given that it’s a safe Democratic seat: Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) received only 38 percent of the vote there. But not only is that district mostly composed of new territory for Doggett, there’s also a 63 percent Hispanic population, making it a ripe opportunity for a local Hispanic politician to begin his or her Congressional career. The most often-mentioned name to run in the new 35th district is state Rep. Mike Villarreal (D), the vice chairman of the state House redistricting committee who told Roll Call he’s taking a “serious look” at the running. However, Villarreal stopped short of saying he would be willing to run against Doggett in a primary. If Villarreal passes on a House run, one of the biggest names in Texas Hispanic politics is one of the Castro brothers: San Antonio Mayor Julian Castro or his twin brother, state Rep. Joaquin Castro, are in a position to run. “Bye, bye, Lloyd Doggett. He has two very bad options,” said Chris Perkins, a GOP consultant based in Texas who drew the Congressional map under DeLay in 2003.
06.02.2011	“I think this map is so far from reality and in so much violation of the law, it’s premature to say,” Doggett said in a phone interview. “It’s the only district in the area that has enough of my district, enough Democrats at this point, but again, I haven’t made any final decision.” Instead, Doggett and his fellow Democrats are planning to take the map to court. Texas’ new Congressional lines must be cleared by the Justice Department for appropriate minority voting power, and the Congressman was quick to declare that the proposed map is in clear violation of the Voting Rights Act. “It’s an outrageous map. It is a map that means that you will have Members of Congress who are less accessible, less accountable,” Doggett said. “Once those forums are resolved, I hope we will have better maps than we do today.” In the meantime, state lawmakers will consider the proposed map as part of a special legislative session that began Tuesday morning. There might be additional tweaks to the map, but it’s highly unlikely the Legislature would do anything to accommodate Doggett. After all, this isn’t the first time Doggett has faced a redistricting-related challenge. When then-House Majority Leader Tom DeLay’s (R) aides redrew the lines in 2003, Doggett’s district was stretched all the way down to the Mexican border. Doggett noted that DeLay aide Jim Ellis wrote in an August 2003 memo: “We must stress that a map that returns Frost, Edwards and Doggett is unacceptable and not worth all of the time invested into this project.” He was referring to then-Reps. Martin Frost and Chet Edwards, Democrats who were defeated in the last decade. “Well, I’m the last one there, and there’s no doubt they would like to finish the work,” Doggett said. And if the proposed map stands, Doggett is left with two less-than-appealing options as future districts. On the surface, the newly drawn 35th district would be ideal territory for Doggett, given that it’s a safe Democratic seat: Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) received only 38 percent of the vote there. But not only is that district mostly composed of new territory for Doggett, there’s also a 63 percent Hispanic population, making it a ripe opportunity for a local Hispanic politician to begin his or her Congressional career. The most often-mentioned name to run in the new 35th district is state Rep. Mike Villarreal (D), the vice chairman of the state House redistricting committee who told Roll Call he’s taking a “serious look” at the running. However, Villarreal stopped short of saying he would be willing to run against Doggett in a primary. If Villarreal passes on a House run, one of the biggest names in Texas Hispanic politics is one of the Castro brothers: San Antonio Mayor Julian Castro or his twin brother, state Rep. Joaquin Castro, are in a position to run. “Bye, bye, Lloyd Doggett. He has two very bad options,” said Chris Perkins, a GOP consultant based in Texas who drew the Congressional map under DeLay in 2003.
06.02.2011	The ironic thing is Central/West Austin got craved up again in pieces just like South Austin this time with this proposed congressional map. The proposed lines for District 25 are a perfect text book example of political gerrymandering and an insult to the citizens of Travis County. The late Congressman Jake Pickle's thirty one years of effective service is conclusive evidence of the value and clout produced by Travis County being represented by one US Congressman. The Senate Select Committee on Redistricting will be held Friday, June 3rd in the Capitol Extension, Room E1.016 beginning at 9AM. This will be our chance to speak out against this map. Although I am recovering from surgery from fracturing my left knee cap in three pieces, I am planning on attending and will either speak or at least fill out a witness card in opposition to this abomination. Please join us if you can, this is a very important issue for all of Austin and Travis County…
06.02.2011	The ironic thing is Central/West Austin got craved up again in pieces just like South Austin this time with this proposed congressional map. The proposed lines for District 25 are a perfect text book example of political gerrymandering and an insult to the citizens of Travis County. The late Congressman Jake Pickle's thirty one years of effective service is conclusive evidence of the value and clout produced by Travis County being represented by one US Congressman. The Senate Select Committee on Redistricting will be held Friday, June 3rd in the Capitol Extension, Room E1.016 beginning at 9AM. This will be our chance to speak out against this map. Although I am recovering from surgery from fracturing my left knee cap in three pieces, I am planning on attending and will either speak or at least fill out a witness card in opposition to this abomination. Please join us if you can, this is a very important issue for all of Austin and Travis County…
06.02.2011	
06.02.2011	June 2, 2011By Tom Ennis Full article: https://coaltarfreeamerica.blogspot.com/2011/06/congressman-doggett-compliments.html Just a few days ago, Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) delivered a new message to the Administrator of the EPA, Lisa Jackson, complimenting some movement on environmental issues, but pressing the Agency that the work on sealants is far from complete.EPA efforts that were applauded included attention to polluted runoff from coal tar sealed lots and their 2010 report on the Relative Potency Factors of PAH mixtures. The problem is that an independent scientific advisory board found some incompleteness with work and recommended additional study be undertaken. What action and on what timetable this will be done has not been made public.Congressman Doggett also took the opportunity to remind EPA about the parking lot runoff study promised him in a July 2009 letter. While it may be a duplication of the work done by the USGS, the City of Austin, the University of New Hampshire, it may yield another data point in our understanding and may give the EPA the justification for further action. If the EPA is staying close to schedule, then the results will be available this summer.The Congressman has been a lone, enduring congressional champion of this nationwide problem for many years. As the bans continue to mount up and the nation's understanding of coal tar sealant pollution increases, Congressman Doggett should be recognized for the quiet vision and resolve we need in our politicians today.The letter can be read in its entirety at this link.
06.02.2011	EPA efforts that were applauded included attention to polluted runoff from coal tar sealed lots and their 2010 report on the Relative Potency Factors of PAH mixtures. The problem is that an independent scientific advisory board found some incompleteness with work and recommended additional study be undertaken. What action and on what timetable this will be done has not been made public.Congressman Doggett also took the opportunity to remind EPA about the parking lot runoff study promised him in a July 2009 letter. While it may be a duplication of the work done by the USGS, the City of Austin, the University of New Hampshire, it may yield another data point in our understanding and may give the EPA the justification for further action. If the EPA is staying close to schedule, then the results will be available this summer.The Congressman has been a lone, enduring congressional champion of this nationwide problem for many years. As the bans continue to mount up and the nation's understanding of coal tar sealant pollution increases, Congressman Doggett should be recognized for the quiet vision and resolve we need in our politicians today.The letter can be read in its entirety at this link. Full article: https://coaltarfreeamerica.blogspot.com/2011/06/congressman-doggett-compliments.html
05.31.2011	
05.31.2011	
05.26.2011	Background on the temporary tax holiday: In general, income earned by U.S. companies in the United States is taxed currently while income earned abroad is only subject to U.S. taxes when it is “repatriated” back to the United States. This system provides obvious incentives to avoid paying current taxes by investing offshore and creating jobs overseas instead of in America. After shifting this money offshore, multinational corporations continually seek ways to bring their foreign profits home without paying their fair share of U.S. taxes. In 2004, corporate lobbyists convinced Congress to allow multinationals to temporarily bring offshore profits back into the U.S. paying only a 5.25% corporate tax rate. The claims then were the same as now—give us this tax break and we will invest the repatriated profits here and create jobs. Unfortunately, job creation did not happen last time and it won’t happen now. Money is fungible and efforts to tie repatriated funds to new investment and hiring failed. The evidence shows that the corporate tax holiday was mainly used for stock repurchases and dividends—uses expressly prohibited by the legislation. The Joint Committee estimates that repeating the tax break will ultimately cost taxpayers $78.7 billion. You can view the Joint Committee on TAxation's full response to Mr. Doggett's revenue request by clicking here.
05.25.2011	[Full text of Rep. Doggett’s remarks as prepared for delivery follow below] The Republican budget does offer a path to prosperity – unfortunately, it is China’s prosperity. For America, they offer a fast-track to mediocrity; a descent into economic insecurity; it’s the wrong path to global competitiveness. It’s not that the level of our debt or the size of our tax breaks are unimportant—it’s that when you have such a narrow focus that you talk about little else, you forget America’s other competitive strengths: our workforce—the need to invest to ensure the strongest and best-educated workforce anywhere in the world; our infrastructure that allows American businesses to prosper across our country; and it’s also about preserving a broad middle class so that more Americans share in the bounty of this country instead of going to some third world extreme where all the wealth is concentrated at the top of the ladder. Today we have to choose. Instead of eliminating $4 billion from early education and student financial assistance, so that students can achieve all of their God-given potential, why not ask General Electric to at least the same tax rate as its mail clerks pay? Instead of eliminating $3 billion a year from our crumbling bridges and roads, why not ask those giant corporations that currently get a $3 billion annual deduction when they borrow money to build a factory overseas without recognizing any of the income from that factory to begin paying their fair share? Instead of accepting this Republican nonsense that we have to have more tax breaks for the very wealthy in our country, why not use the same money to ensure a little dignity for our seniors in nursing homes across the country? We need to stop exporting jobs, exporting manufacturing, exporting tax revenues overseas, and begin develop a more competitive workforce right here in America. I will yield my time, but I will never yield to those Republicans who ask for no sacrifice from Wall Street and Big-Bank bonus recipients, but believe a balanced budget is found in the wallets of teachers, nurses and seniors. ###
05.25.2011	<?xml:namespace prefix = o> <iframe width="425" height="349" src="/%3Ca%20href%3D"https://www.youtube.com/embed/KUXf1RhOECA">https://www.youtube.com/embed/KUXf1RhOECA" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
05.25.2011	May 25, 2011 By Gary Martin gmartin@express-news.netWASHINGTON — Democrats on a homeland security panel requested Tuesday a series of field hearings — including one in San Antonio — on budget cuts that will slash $14.5 million in emergency grants for Texas cities.San Antonio, Austin and El Paso were singled out last week by the Department of Homeland Security for cuts to grants after Congress axed $780 million from the agency's budget.“We can see the consequences of the Republican's shortsighted cuts to homeland security spending,” said Rep. Bennie Thompson, D-Miss., the ranking member of the House Homeland Security Committee.Democrats are worried that Republican-ordered cuts will further slash homeland security grants in the budget for fiscal 2012, which begins Oct. 1.Thompson, in a letter, asked Chairman Rep. Peter King, R-N.Y., to hold a series of comprehensive field hearings to determine the impact of the cuts to first responders.Rep. Henry Cuellar, D-Laredo, a member of the committee, said he requested that one of the hearings be held in San Antonio, which received $4.5 million last year for equipment, training and vehicles.“I think security is one of the areas we ought to put more priority on,” said Cuellar, who noted San Antonio's proximity to the U.S.-Mexico border.Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, said “House Republicans are proposing to cut resources for state and emergency preparedness next year by 62 percent.“I oppose eliminating funds upon which our local officials rely to protect us from terrorism,” Doggett said.Funding for Austin and El Paso also were cut, while Dallas and Houston remained on the list to get federal help.A Department of Homeland Security spokeswoman said the cut in state and local preparedness grants would allow the department to focus on more high-risk cities such as Washington and New York.Read more: https://www.mysanantonio.com/news/politics/article/Dems-upset-about-homeland-security-cuts-request-1394260.php#ixzz1NO5B5AhE
05.23.2011	
05.23.2011	May 23, 2011 This weekend, Rep. Doggett was pleased to join AmeriCorps volunteers and alumni to help celebrate the good work AmeriCorps does in the Austin community every day. From teach some of our youngest students how to read to helping train Austinites for "green jobs" in the future, in Austin, the impact AmeriCorps has had on the community speaks volumes about the integrity of this program and those who participate in it. "In Austin, every week is AmeriCorps week," said Rep. Doggett.
05.23.2011	Last Tuesday, Austin-based American YouthWorks (AYW) was awarded almost $1.1 million in federal support for Casa Verde Builders (CVB), a YouthBuild education and jobs training program. The offices of US Congressman Lloyd Doggett and US Senator John Cornyn notified and congratulated the non-profit after Labor Secretary Hilda L. Solis announced the awards that morning.With significant reduction in awards from the department from previous years, that AYW was awarded funding for the next two years is an impressive show of the impact of their program. In combination with the federal grant, city funding, and private donations, the program will be able to help disengaged youth through education, community service and green jobs training. In CVB's fifteen years, almost 1000 local youth have completed the program, earning their high school diploma or GED, and an AmeriCorps education award. Full story from The Austinist: https://austinist.com/2011/05/23/american_youthworks_awarded_grant_f.php ______________________________________ Rep. Doggett said: “American YouthWorks builds a stronger Austin by builder stronger citizens. I have crawled through the attics with their trainees and seen their pride and accomplishment. You can see their work firsthand in the Hill Country trails they have landscaped, in the homes they have weatherized, and even more importantly, in the young lives changed and new opportunities opened. This is the kind of work that should be recognized, rewarded, and copied across the country.”
05.23.2011	Last Tuesday, Austin-based American YouthWorks (AYW) was awarded almost $1.1 million in federal support for Casa Verde Builders (CVB), a YouthBuild education and jobs training program. The offices of US Congressman Lloyd Doggett and US Senator John Cornyn notified and congratulated the non-profit after Labor Secretary Hilda L. Solis announced the awards that morning.With significant reduction in awards from the department from previous years, that AYW was awarded funding for the next two years is an impressive show of the impact of their program. In combination with the federal grant, city funding, and private donations, the program will be able to help disengaged youth through education, community service and green jobs training. In CVB's fifteen years, almost 1000 local youth have completed the program, earning their high school diploma or GED, and an AmeriCorps education award. Full story from The Austinist: https://austinist.com/2011/05/23/american_youthworks_awarded_grant_f.php ______________________________________ Rep. Doggett said: “American YouthWorks builds a stronger Austin by builder stronger citizens. I have crawled through the attics with their trainees and seen their pride and accomplishment. You can see their work firsthand in the Hill Country trails they have landscaped, in the homes they have weatherized, and even more importantly, in the young lives changed and new opportunities opened. This is the kind of work that should be recognized, rewarded, and copied across the country.”
05.20.2011	“There’s something comforting and purely Texas about Sarah’s photo of her grandfather’s old Ford pickup truck,” said Rep. Doggett. “I appreciate that she seized an opportunity to share such a special piece of her life, and look forward to visitors from all over the country having the opportunity to view what this talented young woman has captured on film.” Each spring, the Congressional Institute sponsors a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation. Since it began in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated. ###
05.19.2011	May 19, 2011 Washington—Following the news today that President Obama will nominate Rodney Gilstrap for U.S. District Judge, Eastern District, U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), chair of the Texas Democratic Delegation, issued the following statement: “I am pleased that Rodney Gilstrap, whom our Texas Democratic Delegation recommended on March 22, 2010, has finally been nominated. He will bring to this important job extensive professional experience, a distinguished record of service to his community, and a life time of living in East Texas. I appreciate the confidence that our Senators have also expressed in him and hope that he is promptly confirmed.” ###
05.18.2011	May 18, 2011
05.17.2011	“American YouthWorks builds a stronger Austin by builder stronger citizens,” said Congressman Doggett. “I have crawled through the attics with their trainees and seen their pride and accomplishment. You can see their work firsthand in the Hill Country trails they have landscaped, in the homes they have weatherized, and even more importantly, in the young lives changed and new opportunities opened. This is the kind of work that should be recognized, rewarded, and copied across the country. These funds from the U.S. Department of Labor will be used to continue the training of Austin’s at-risk youth population enrolled in American YouthWorks’ Casa Verde Builders program. It provides job training and educational opportunities for at-risk youth ages 16 to 26 while constructing or rehabilitating affordable housing for low-income or homeless families in their own neighborhoods. Since 1994, the Casa Verde Builders Program has built almost 100 energy-efficient, sustainable homes for first-time, low-income homebuyers. Youth split their time between the construction site and the classroom, where they can earn their GED or high school diploma, learn to be community leaders, and prepare for college and other postsecondary training opportunities, such as preparing to enter the construction industry with certifications and a working command of green construction. YouthBuild includes significant support through mentoring, follow-up education, employment, personal counseling, and participation in community service and civic engagement AYW CEO Parc Smith welcomed news of the grant. “Our work with Austin’s disengaged youth in these times of economic hardship is more important now than ever. These Federal dollars will be matched with support from the City of Austin, Travis County and local donors to help transform their lives from non-productive or dangerous activities to become an asset to their families and contributing members of our community. We believe that YouthBuild programs such as American YouthWorks’ Casa Verde Builders, are a smart use of federal dollars that stimulates the local economy, builds tomorrows workforce and develops our next generation of community leaders,” he said. If you would like to have a tour of one of the 5-star energy efficient homes built by the YouthBuild members of AYW, please join them on the “Cool Homes” tour on Sunday, June 5, 2011. For more information go to https://www.americanyouthworks.org. ###
05.16.2011	The corporations have united under a campaign called “WinAmerica,” and evidently they are having some effect. Yesterday, Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX) unveiled a bill that would let corporations repatriate their money at a tax rate of 5.25 percent (instead of the usual 35 percent). Brady said that, “this is about creating jobs, expanding U.S. businesses and strengthening American companies.” However, when Congress approved a repatriation holiday in 2004, companies used the money to enrich their executives, not create jobs. And according to an analysis by the Joint Economic Committee a repatriation holiday today would cost close to $80 billion in lost revenue: Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat who is a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee, yesterday circulated an estimate from the Joint Committee on Taxation pegging the cost of a repatriation bill at $78.7 billion. An unsuccessful effort to create a similar holiday in 2009 would have cost the U.S. government about $30 billion over a decade in forgone revenue. If the money that corporations brought back actually led to job creation, some might consider this worth the cost. But that’s not what happened in 2004. In fact, the Congressional Research Service found that the largest beneficiaries of the last tax holiday cut jobs over the subsequent two years. Hewlett-Packard, for instance, “returned $14.5 billion to the U.S. at a low rate in 2004 and cut its workforce by 14,500 employees in 2005.” Kristen Forbes, who was on President Bush’s Council of Economic Advisers when the last repatriation holiday was approved, told the Boston Globe that the policy “didn’t accomplish the stated goals of bringing jobs and investment to the US.” But that hasn’t stopped several other Republicans, including 2012 presidential hopefuls Mitt Romney and Tim Pawlenty, from endorsing the idea.
05.13.2011	Repatriation legislation introduced yesterday by Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican, repeats most of a 2004 law. It would allow U.S.-based companies to repatriate, for one year, income earned overseas at a 5.25 percent rate instead of the 35 percent statutory corporate rate. The money that would flow to the U.S. -- estimated to be as much as $1 trillion -- would spur job creation and investment, Brady maintains. "This is about creating jobs, expanding U.S. businesses and strengthening American companies," he said yesterday in a statement yesterday about the bill, which was introduced with some Democratic support. Companies including Microsoft Corp. (MSFT), Devon Energy Corp. (DVN), Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) and Brown-Forman Corp. (BF/A) are part of a coalition lobbying for a repatriation holiday. The House Ways and Means Committee will hold a hearing today that will focus on how tax rules affect global competition. Estimated Cost Democrats are countering Brady’s proposal with estimates of the growing cost of a repatriation effort. Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat who is a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee, yesterday circulated an estimate from the Joint Committee on Taxation pegging the cost of a repatriation bill at $78.7 billion. An unsuccessful effort to create a similar holiday in 2009 would have cost the U.S. government about $30 billion over a decade in forgone revenue. "This means we will have to borrow more from foreign creditors or shift a greater burden to American small businesses and families," Doggett said. Congressional estimators projected that companies would repatriate about $700 billion if offered a 5.25 percent rate, compared with $300 billion during the tax holiday enacted in 2004. The estimate released by Doggett considers a general repatriation holiday and not the legislation introduced by Brady, who said he is seeking a review from the Congressional Budget Office. Brady downplayed the earlier estimates. "I don’t think that score passes the common-sense test," he told reporters on a conference call yesterday. Democrats also maintain that the bill does too little to protect jobs at companies that repatriate overseas funds. They have pointed to such examples as Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ), which returned $14.5 billion to the U.S. at a low rate in 2004 and cut its workforce by 14,500 employees in 2005. Layoff ‘Disincentive’ The bill includes what Brady calls a "disincentive" for layoffs, as it would penalize companies that bring home profits at a lower rate and then reduce their workforce. Companies would have to add $25,000 to their taxable income each time they cut their total workforce below the company’s average. With a 35 percent tax rate, the provision would increase the company’s tax bill by $8,750 for each job cut. Edward Kleinbard, a professor at the University of Southern California School of Law in Los Angeles, said that won’t be enough to discourage layoffs. "It’s not a huge amount at all," he said. "It’s just misguided." Brady defended the provision as "reasonable" and said it "makes the point that our goal is to create jobs and strengthen jobs." Using the Money He said he didn’t consider restrictions on how companies could use the money they bring back to the U.S., leaving open the possibility for businesses to use the funds to pay for dividends or stock buybacks. Companies were criticized for such tactics after the 2004 law was passed. "It would be a mistake for Washington to create artificial restrictions on the use of this when clearly the aggregate of this investment is going to be very good for the economy," Brady said. The bill faces obstacles in Congress. House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican, supports a repatriation bill, while House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp, a Michigan Republican, has said he wants to address the issue as part of a comprehensive revision of the tax code. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner has echoed Camp’s view. Camp said today in a brief interview that "I’m for repatriation, but I’m interested in comprehensive tax reform." He declined to say whether he would support the repatriation proposal as standalone legislation if a tax overhaul plan does not materialize in Congress. ‘Interim Step’ Cantor expressed support yesterday for considering a repatriation proposal before a tax overhaul. "While fundamental reform will take time, repatriation is an interim step that we can take to encourage businesses to bring investment back to our country," he said in a statement. The repatriation issue has received less attention in the Senate. The Obama administration opposes a repatriation holiday. Critics say the 2004 law didn’t lead to enough job creation to justify the tax break. "It was a major failure the first time around, and it’s going to be worse this time," said Chuck Marr, director of federal tax policy at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a Washington organization that supports policies that help low-income Americans. "You make it a regular occurrence, you make it an incentive to shift profits and investments overseas." Brady introduced the bill with at least three Democratic co-sponsors, Representatives Jim Cooper of Tennessee, Jim Matheson of Utah and Jared Polis of Colorado.
05.12.2011	The panel, invited to present the views of multinational corporations included: Edward Rapp, CFO, Caterpillar, Peoria, Illinois Mark Buthman, CFO, Kimberly-Clarke, Dallas, Texas Greg Hayes, CFO, United Technologies, Hartford, Connecticut James T. Crines, CFO, Zimmer Holdings, Warsaw, Indiana In response to Rep. Lloyd Doggett’s questioning, the entire panel unanimously agreed that enacting a one-time repatriation tax holiday would be a mistake. They further elaborated their reasoning in response to a subsequent question from Rep. Mike Thompson. Video of the exchange is available here. Rep. Doggett had the following reaction to the CFOs’ testimony: “We share the objective of a tax system that contributes to building the American economy, however, we disagree on some of the suggested ways to get there. One key tax issue, on which we have complete agreement, is that standalone corporate repatriation tax proposals, like Rep. Kevin Brady’s, are a very bad idea.” Background on the Repatriation Tax Break: In general, income earned by U.S. companies in the United States is taxed currently while income earned abroad is only subject to U.S. taxes when it is “repatriated” back to the United States. This system provides obvious incentives to avoid paying current taxes by investing offshore and creating jobs overseas instead of in America. After shifting this money offshore, multinational corporations continually seek ways to bring their foreign profits home without paying their fair share of U.S. taxes. In 2004, corporate lobbyists convinced Congress to allow multinationals to temporarily bring offshore profits back into the U.S. paying only a 5.25% corporate tax rate, not the regular 35% rate. The claims then were the same as now—give us this tax break and we will invest the repatriated profits here and create jobs. Unfortunately, job creation did not happen last time and it won’t happen now. Money is fungible and efforts to tie repatriated funds to new investment and hiring failed. The evidence shows that the corporate tax holiday was mainly used for stock repurchases and dividends—uses expressly prohibited by the legislation. {loadposition pdf}
05.12.2011	The panel, invited to present the views of multinational corporations included: Edward Rapp, CFO, Caterpillar, Peoria, Illinois Mark Buthman, CFO, Kimberly-Clarke, Dallas, Texas Greg Hayes, CFO, United Technologies, Hartford, Connecticut James T. Crines, CFO, Zimmer Holdings, Warsaw, Indiana In response to Rep. Lloyd Doggett’s questioning, the entire panel unanimously agreed that enacting a one-time repatriation tax holiday would be a mistake. They further elaborated their reasoning in response to a subsequent question from Rep. Mike Thompson. Video of the exchange is available here. Rep. Doggett had the following reaction to the CFOs’ testimony: “We share the objective of a tax system that contributes to building the American economy, however, we disagree on some of the suggested ways to get there. One key tax issue, on which we have complete agreement, is that standalone corporate repatriation tax proposals, like Rep. Kevin Brady’s, are a very bad idea.” Background on the Repatriation Tax Break: In general, income earned by U.S. companies in the United States is taxed currently while income earned abroad is only subject to U.S. taxes when it is “repatriated” back to the United States. This system provides obvious incentives to avoid paying current taxes by investing offshore and creating jobs overseas instead of in America. After shifting this money offshore, multinational corporations continually seek ways to bring their foreign profits home without paying their fair share of U.S. taxes. In 2004, corporate lobbyists convinced Congress to allow multinationals to temporarily bring offshore profits back into the U.S. paying only a 5.25% corporate tax rate, not the regular 35% rate. The claims then were the same as now—give us this tax break and we will invest the repatriated profits here and create jobs. Unfortunately, job creation did not happen last time and it won’t happen now. Money is fungible and efforts to tie repatriated funds to new investment and hiring failed. The evidence shows that the corporate tax holiday was mainly used for stock repurchases and dividends—uses expressly prohibited by the legislation. {loadposition pdf}
05.11.2011	
05.11.2011	Republicans again put corporate special interests ahead of our nation’s best fiscal interests. If this sorry Republican plan didn’t already have a bad track record, it might be easier for them to promote it. Our economy will see little benefit in rewarding large multinationals for shipping even more jobs and revenue offshore, though wealthy shareholders may see substantial benefits. This latest ploy by large multinational corporations and their Republican allies to avoid paying their fair share for our national security and economic well-being carries a hefty price tag -- nearly $80 billion. This means we will have to borrow more from foreign creditors or shift a greater burden to American small businesses and working families. To Republicans, deficits only matter when asking seniors and students to sacrifice.”Background: In general, income earned by U.S. companies in the United States is taxed currently while income earned abroad is only subject to U.S. taxes when it is “repatriated” back to the United States. This system provides obvious incentives to avoid paying current taxes by investing offshore and creating jobs overseas instead of in America. After shifting this money offshore, multinational corporations continually seek ways to bring their foreign profits home without paying their fair share of U.S. taxes. In 2004, corporate lobbyists convinced Congress to allow multinationals to temporarily bring offshore profits back into the U.S. paying only a 5.25% corporate tax rate, not the regular 35% rate. The claims then were the same as now—give us this tax break and we will invest the repatriated profits here and create jobs. Unfortunately, job creation did not happen last time and it won’t happen now. Money is fungible and efforts to tie repatriated funds to new investment and hiring failed. The evidence shows that the corporate tax holiday was mainly used for stock repurchases and dividends—uses expressly prohibited by the legislation. The Joint Committee on Taxation cost estimate: The Joint Committee estimates that repeating the tax break will ultimately cost taxpayers $78.7 billion. The Joint Committee based its cost estimate on three major components: 1) Windfall: On dividends that multinationals were planning to repatriate soon without any tax break, the repatriation break amounts to a pure windfall. 2) Changes to timing and amounts of repatriated dividends: Decisions to accelerate the repatriation of dividends or change repatriated amounts will affect when and how this income is taxed. For example, a $100 dividend that would have been repatriated under present law in 2013, and would have resulted in $25 of U.S. tax at that time, would now incur just $4 in U.S. tax in 2011. 3) Prospective decision making: After a second repatriation tax break, firms may reasonably anticipate that this repatriation tax break will happen again, encouraging them to shift even more profits out of the U.S. to avoid paying any U.S. taxes now and paying only fire sale rates in the future on that money stashed abroad. In other words, a repatriation tax break will encourage shifting even more revenue and jobs out of the United States. You can view the Joint Committee on Taxation's full response to Mr. Doggett's revenue request by clicking here.
05.02.2011	May 2, 2011 Washington — U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett today issued the following statement regarding the death of Osama bin Laden:“For all of us committed to ending terrorism, this is extraordinary. While the Al Qaeda threat remains real, the evil vision behind so much pain and suffering is finally dead.”
04.25.2011	By: LISA FALKENBERG Copyright 2011, HOUSTON CHRONICLEApril 25, 2011, 11:17PM "Hallelujah!" Republicans cried in a chorus of celebratory news releases over the weekend. The schoolchildren of Texas had been narrowly saved from an evil plot by congressional Democrats to push an amendment that denied the students, and their teachers, $832 million in federal money during one of the worst budget crises the Lone Star State has ever seen. "Today our schoolchildren and teachers received the funding they should have never been denied," U.S. Rep. Michael Burgess, R-Lewisville, proclaimed in a release Friday. U.S. Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison declared it "a victory for our state's students and teachers," saying she was pleased that they "are now being treated fairly." Gov. Rick Perry patted himself and his GOP colleagues on the back, lauding "our persistent efforts" to pry the money from the clutches of the Department of Education. Texas schools, he said "have been waiting for these well-deserved federal funds for far too long." The holdup, the Republicans said, was a "petty," "unconstitutional," "arrogant" and "anti-Texas" amendment by U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, that they had finally gotten repealed in a recently passed federal spending bill. Perry's news release refers to "assurances" that the amendment would have required him to make. Perry doesn't define what those assurances were. Maybe he didn't want Texans to realize that the amendment he and his cohorts had protected the schoolchildren of Texas from was intended to … protect the schoolchildren of Texas. That's right. Doggett's amendment simply would have required Texas to make assurances that its budget would spend federal education funds on education, to actually spend money intended for the kids and teachers on the kids and teachers. Democrats had been worried that desperate Texas lawmakers trying to plug a shortfall of up to $27 billion would use the education funding to plug other parts of the budget. Yes, the amendment was part politics. And it was part state-federal power play. But it was also, in large part, prudent. Democrats like U.S. Rep. Gene Green, D-Houston, had accused Texas lawmakers in the last legislative session of funneling federal education stimulus funds to the state's rainy day fund. And while it wasn't a direct transaction, it's certainly true that Texas didn't use federal education funds to boost education funding. We supplanted the dollars to maintain the status quo.Taken at their word In other words, Texas lawmakers didn't spend federal stimulus funds to actually stimulate. Doggett estimated that Perry and lawmakers had used $3.25 billion in federal education stimulus to replace state funding for schools in 2009. And Democrats had a real concern the Legislature would do something similar this session. Texas has a long history of balancing the budget by diverting fees and fines intended for one purpose to pay for something else entirely. In 2009, my colleague in Austin, Peggy Fikac, reported that nearly $3.7 billion in levies collected for things like trauma care, fighting air pollution and helping low-income Texans pay electric bills was being used to pay other expenses. Senate Finance Chairman Steve Ogden hasn't denied his habit of diversion but has argued that Texas being Texas, and "our tax and revenue system" being "pretty messed up," he's had little choice but to rob Peter to pay Paul (my words). Another lawmaker, a former House budget chief, candidly called the practice a "shell game." Even before it was clear that the Doggett amendment would be repealed, Ogden and other state leaders had pledged to use the $830 million for education. In a budget-slashing session as bloody as this one, where thousands of teachers could lose their jobs, Ogden told the Chronicle earlier this month: "It will go to education. Where else?" Before last week, all we could do was take his word for it. Now we have something better. Every Republican crowing in his or her news release about helping repeal Doggett's amendment actually promised to adhere to it in spirit. "This funding will soon be flowing to the schoolteachers and schoolchildren of Texas," Perry declared. It better. But thanks for the assurance. Click here for the original article
04.12.2011	The provision was quietly inserted into the late-night deal that prevented the federal government for shutting down. For Texas, which faces a yawning budget deficit, the repeal of the measure authored by Austin Democratic Rep. Lloyd Doggett officially known as the Save Our Schools Amendment gives the state legislature a large pot of unexpected money to help plug its own deficit. Texas legislators can either use the money to reduce the size of proposed budget cuts to education in Texasor they can effectively divert the money to other uses. [D]oggett, who led a united effort of the state’s then-12 House Democrats, condemned the action. “Removing all accountability on Gov. Perry’s use of $830 million of federal aid to education by repealing the ‘Save Our Schools’ Amendment is one of many unwise concessions made to Republicans to avoid their threatened government shutdown,” Doggett said. “If this federal money is added to the funding for our schools contained in the State Senate Finance bill, our purpose can still be achieved. If it simply replaces proposed state funding, then the concern of state educators, who sought our amendment, will be justified.” Doggett said that the congressional action agreed to by President Obama would allow the state to substitute this new pot of federal money for currently planned state education funding, permitting the legislature to effectively divert school funds to roads, health care or other state priorities. “Our sole objective has remained to ensure that federal aid to education actually aids local Texas schools with additional help rather than being diverted by the State as occurred in 2009 with $3.25 billion of federal aid,” said Doggett. “The governor and the legislature still have the power to do right by our Texas children.” Doggett’s proposal, adopted by the all-Democratic Congress last summer, requires Texas — and only Texas — to guarantee that it will maintain state funding for education throughout 2013. Democrats support the amendment because it requires the state to use the federal money to supplement, rather than supplant, its existing public education funding Until last week’s budget deal. Perry’s office lobbied aggressively behind the scenes to undo the Doggett Amendment. Education is a prime target for cuts in the proposed 2011 budget that is trying to eliminate a $15 to $27 billion shortfall. Full article: https://blog.mysanantonio.com/texas-politics/2011/04/federal-budget-deal-repeals-doggett-amendment-freeing-up-830-million-for-texas-to-spend/
04.12.2011	“Removing all accountability on Governor Perry's use of $830 million of federal aid to education by repealing the “Save Our Schools” Amendment is one of many unwise concessions made to Republicans to avoid their threatened government shutdown. If this federal money is added to the funding for our schools contained in the State Senate Finance bill, our purpose can still be achieved. If it simply replaces proposed state funding, then the concern of state educators, who sought our amendment, will be justified. Our sole objective has remained to ensure that federal aid to education actually aids local Texas schools with additional help rather than being diverted by the State as occurred in 2009 with $3.25 billion of federal aid. The Governor and the Legislature still have the power to do right by our Texas children.” To see Rep. Doggett discuss how the repeal of this important provision may be a setback, but can also be a call to action, see below:
04.08.2011	April 8, 2011 Today, Rep. Doggett appeared at a press conference with colleagues to discuss the Republican crusade to destroy Planned Parenthood.
04.06.2011	[Remarks as prepared for delivery] This is not a path to prosperity; it is a path to mediocrity; it is a path to insecurity; it’s the wrong path. We welcome a spirited debate about our economic future. Mr. Ryan fails to offer a balanced approach to achieve our shared objective of a balanced budget. You might say that in short, we Democrats say that this budget is just not our cup of tea. Yes, this is a “choice of two futures” for our country, but the choice that this budget presents is really one between their ideology and reality, it’s between a fact-based analysis and fiction-based mythology and ideology. The only thing that is real about this budget are the harsh cuts that will bring real insecurity to the many while providing a largesse for the wealthiest Americans who have been taking a bigger and bigger share of our national wealth. In this budget, wherever you read the terms “modernize” or “reform,” just understand that these are Republican euphemisms for a four letter word that hurts—“less”—less retirement security, less educational security, less health security, less economic security. This budget does not share the sacrifice, but it certainly does spread the pain. We get less of what matters not because they tackle our soaring national debt in a courageous way, but because of how they choose to tackle that debt consistent with their ideology. This proposal, I believe, makes very wrong choices for our future. There is, for example, a much better alternative than eliminating $4 billion from early education or student financial assistance that will only deny students the means to get all of the education for which they are willing to work to achieve their full God-given potential. Instead of cutting that $4 billion, I would cut the $4 billion that is being spent every year through the Tax Code to enable Wall Street financial enterprises to avoid taxes on profits from loans and financial activities overseas and which are, at the same time, encouraging the export of American jobs. Instead of eliminating $500 million in cancer research and other scientific research that saves lives and creates jobs in America, I would eliminate the $500 million a year spent through the Tax Code, in what's called the look-through provision, which enables multinationals to shift income earned abroad among through their foreign subsidiaries. Instead of eliminating $3 billion a year from our crumbling bridges and roads, I would eliminate the $3 billion loophole in the Tax Code that grants a corporate tax deduction on interest charges when you borrow money to build a factory overseas without having to pay taxes on the income you earned from that factory. We need to stop exporting American jobs, exporting American manufacturing, exporting American tax revenues, and start developing a more competitive workforce and rebuilding America. And we can choose to have the same effect on the deficit by choosing to close harmful loopholes instead of yielding to harmful Republican cuts. ###
03.24.2011	In 2009, State leaders played a shell game by subtracting $3.25 billion from state education funding and replacing it with $3.25 billion in federal education funds through the Economic Recovery Act—leaving Texas schools no better off despite the federal aid. Last August, when Congress approved an additional $830 million for Texas schools, all 12 members of the Texas Democratic Delegation joined to prevent another diversion by offering our “Save Our Schools” provision, which is now federal law. Governor Perry’s office said in a statement to KEYE News: “No one wants this money to reach Texas schoolteachers and children more than Governor Perry. The Governor has made all the assurances he can to try and secure this funding, including applying for the funding, working with Congress to repeal the amendment and taking legal action through the Attorney General’s Office.” Governor Perry’s reply means that that instead of his simply signing a proper 3-page application that would promptly get almost $19M to AISD, he prefers a frivolous lawsuit and a failed attempt at repeal of federal law [Click here to see the 3-page application]. With the Texas Legislature underway, the Governor’s sole stated excuse for failing to secure these monies has no plausible merit. While State officials previously told the U.S. Department of Education that a proper application would eventually be filed, Texas remains one of only two states that have failed to do so. Rep. Doggett has said, “After so long, with so much at stake, Texas students deserve better.”
03.22.2011	Latest News Frequently Asked Questions Travel Alert Recent Embassy Notices for American CitizensContact Information For calls from within the U.S. 1-888-407-4747 For calls from outside the U.S. 1-202-501-4444 For concerns about a specific U.S. citizen in Japan JapanEmergencyUSC@state.gov This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view itThe Consulate General of Japan in San Francisco has set up a special operations room to receive inquiries concerning the earthquake.P: 415-356-2486 (during business hours) P: 415-777-3533 (after business hours and weekend) You can emailsa2cg@cgjsf.org This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it to learn more about providing assistance to victims of the earthquake. U.S Embassy in Tokyo Google Person FinderFor more information about the situation and how to help, you can visit: U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID)
03.17.2011	Rep. Doggett's Full Remarks follow below: While Republicans insist today that NPR is a four-letter word, their real attack is on KUT and similar local public radio across <?xml:namespace prefix = st1> America. 250,000 Texans rely upon KUT’s in-depth radio news scrutiny of the Texas Legislature and local government. The only "bias" of those who begin with “Morning Edition,” is a bias for truth. My constituents tune in to KUT because they want fact-based, not faux-based, Fox-based coverage. <?xml:namespace prefix = o> <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"> Like their continued assault on PBS, these Republicans just can’t tell the difference between Big Government and Big Bird. Even as they pander to Wall Street, they continue to want to terminate support of “ Sesame Street.” “All Things Considered,” their attack really has nothing to do with balancing the budget. It is an ideological crusade against balanced news and educational programming. Cutting access to public knowledge decreases our ability to hold our government accountable. Don’t weaken our democracy today by weakening this vital source of reality-based journalism. Whether slashing higher education, public education, public broadcasting, or public radio, there is a troubling pattern to these Republican attacks: if it promotes a well-informed citizenry, they don’t like it. Don’t cut KUT. Public radio serves the public interest. ###
03.11.2011	
02.28.2011	February 28, 2011 How repetitive political rhetoric holds back $830 million from saving education jobs. by Fred Badlissi Quick: Ask yourself, "What do Texas and South Carolina both have in common?"Both states are nuts about barbecue, but most Texans know better than to give that name to pork. Both have threatened succession from the Union, but South Carolina was the first to live the dream in 1860. The answer is that Texas and South Carolina carry the distinction of being the only two states not to benefit from the Education Jobs Fund, a $10 billion fund created by Congress last year to help local education agencies hire and retain teachers and other public school employees. South Carolina never sent the required application to claim their share, but Texas did. Texas was in line to get $830 million – the equivalent of 13,400 jobs - but the state hasn’t seen a dime. The money got caught in the partisan politics of stimulus spending. Mindful of the way Gov. Perry and the Texas Legislature used the $14 billion in ARRA stimulus funding to paper over the state budget deficit in 2009, Congressman Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, secured a Texas-specific provision in the Act that required that the funds be used for their intended purpose. Specifically, the "Texas Save Our Schools" amendment, as proponents call it, bars Texas from disproportionately cutting education spending or lavishing the money on other programs. Doggett’s fear was that Perry would treat the funds as a $830 million blank check.But (surprise?) Perry didn't like it, and treated the move as grist for his anti-fed mill. In September, Attorney General Greg Abbott sued the federal government, arguing that the Doggett amendment asks too much of the governor's authority and that it discriminates against Texas."Texas will not surrender to Washington’s one-size-fits-all, deficit-spending mindset or let Washington do to the Texas budget what they have done to the federal budget," Perry proclaimed at the time.Well, since then there’s been a landmark election and Republicans now run in the show in the U.S. House. This past weekend at 4 a.m. on Saturday morning, U.S. House Rep. Michael Burgess, R-Lewisville, along with 234 of his closest party-line friends, voted to keep money from the current budget from being used to enforce the provision, which he and other Republicans call the "Anti-Texas" provision or the "Doggett Act." Burgess and Perry say that this kills the amendment, while Doggett says that it has no effect as it is written.But while an ultimate resolution to this may be far off, one lesson is clear. Perry and Burgess' behavior highlights the state's love/hate relationship toward federal money. First, the governor had no qualms about taking billions – that's nine zeros – from the Recovery Act (aka, "the Obama stimulus") to plug up the state budget. But when that zero count becomes six, millions, his views suddenly shift. In 2009, even as the Texas Workforce Commission faced depletion, Perry asked the federal government for a loan following the rejection of $550 million grant in federal stimulus funds. While the grant would have required some changes to the way unemployment benefits were calculated, it was also seen as a way to safeguard Texas' benefits. Upon rejecting the funds, Perry said "The last thing they need right now is for government to burden [small business owners] with higher taxes." Since rejecting the grant, TWC's average unemployment tax for businesses per employee has more than doubled from .99% in 2009 to 2.03% in 2011.Burgess and the new Republican majority in Congress are taking credit for liberating that $830 million, though Burgess was initially against it, citing disdain for any type of "bailout." Since other states in the union are getting money, Burgess says that Texas shouldn't be singled out.. There's a contradiction here involving the independent spirit of a Lone Star and the mental image of a bandwagon. Some might call it "political expediency." So will Texas teachers and other education employees ever see that $830 million? That's a serious question that deserves an honest answer. But until the Texas Legislature can fully commit to anti-stimulus rhetoric or to accepting a helping hand, well ... I hope you like reruns.
02.25.2011	February 25, 2011
02.23.2011	February 23, 2011
02.19.2011	
02.17.2011	February 17, 2011 Here is an excerpt from today's New York Times where columnist Gail Collins writes on our efforts to secure $830 million in federal aid for Texas schools. New York Times, Gail Collins February 17, 2011 This month, The Houston Chronicle published an opinion piece by the former first lady titled "We Can’t Afford to Cut Education," in which Mrs. Bush pointed out that students in Texas currently rank 47th in the nation in literacy, 49th in verbal SAT scores and 46th in math scores. "In light of these statistics, can we afford to cut the number of teachers, increase class sizes, eliminate scholarships for underprivileged students and close several community colleges?" she asked. You’d think there’d be an obvious answer. But the Texas State Legislature is looking to cut about $4.8 billion over the next two years from the schools. Budgets are tight everywhere, but Perry, the state’s governor, and his supporters made things much worse by reducing school property taxes by a third in 2006 under the theory that a higher cigarette tax and a new business franchise tax would make up the difference. Which they didn’t. "In Austin, I’ve got half-a-dozen or more schools on a list to be closed — one of which I presented a federal blue-ribbon award to for excellence," said Representative Lloyd Doggett. "And several hundred school personnel on the list for possible terminations." So the first choice is what to do. You may not be surprised to hear that Governor Perry has rejected new taxes. He’s also currently refusing $830 million in federal aid to education because the Democratic members of Congress from Texas — ticked off because Perry used $3.2 billion in stimulus dollars for schools to plug other holes in his budget — put in special language requiring that this time Texas actually use the money for the kids. "If I have to cast very tough votes, criticized by every Republican as too much federal spending, at least it ought to go to the purpose we voted for it," said Doggett. Nobody wants to see underperforming, overcrowded schools being deprived of more resources anywhere. But when it happens in Texas, it’s a national crisis.
02.16.2011	February 16, 2011
02.15.2011	February 15, 2011
02.11.2011	February 11, 2011 During the Bush administration, I spoke on the House floor in support of a free and democratic Egypt— on this historic day for Egypt and the world, I join the many who stand in solidarity with the people of Egypt working to achieve their democratic aspirations.
02.10.2011	February 10, 2011
02.10.2011	February 10, 2011
02.10.2011	February 10, 2011 Washington D.C.—Regarding Governor Perry’s visit to Washington for a speech at Republican National headquarters on Friday, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, on behalf of the nine members of the Texas Democratic Congressional Delegation, sent the following letter signed by all nine members.
02.09.2011	February 9, 2011
01.20.2011	Full text of Rep. Doggett's remarks follow below. “Let it be remembered that Congress began this debate on whether or not to reduce corporate tax revenues to pay for our National Security on the same day that our Committee Leadership, like our President, is meeting with the Chinese. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"> “Because the first question that needs to be answered in this debate is how much more America will borrow from the Chinese so that some corporations can pay less. To say, as the Representative of the Business Roundtable has done here that, ‘Revenue neutrality should be off the table,’ may be consistent with the misguided holiday tax deal that added another almost trillion dollars to the national debt. But it is just another way of saying, ‘Go borrow from the Chinese.’ “Of course there may be some merit to lowering the statutory corporate tax rate—all of our witnesses are suggesting that there is. One should realize of course that to the extent that we lower the statutory rate if all corporations were paying that—that would represent a substantial tax increase for many of our multinationals— You’ve noted General Electric for one that would be paying many times the effective rate if it paid the lowered statutory rate that’s being proposed. “To call for a pure territorial system is really just another way of saying we want a permanent repatriation of profits holiday like the one that didn’t produce more jobs for Americans last time, and it’s a sure fire way to encourage the continued export of more American jobs. ###
01.20.2011	<?xml:namespace prefix = o> Full text of Rep. Doggett’s remarks as delivered follow below: “With last year’s important health insurance reform law, we provided real guarantees to American families against insurance monopoly abuses. Today, Republicans tell these families, ‘Forget the binding guarantees, we have 12 platitudes for you.’ “This isn’t a Republican prescription -- this is a placebo. And for the American middle class, it’s a very bitter pill indeed. “Yesterday, House Republicans, in a remarkable measure, with one vote decided to increase the national debt, reduce the solvency of the Medicare Trust Fund, raise insurance premiums, and charge seniors more for their health care. “During the last 12 years that these Republicans were in charge, 6 of them with near total domination of government here in Washington under the Bush-Cheney Administration, they failed to enact 1 of these 12 platitudes in this flimsy, 2-page excuse of a bill. Twelve health care platitudes up now, missing in inaction for 12 years. “And who wouldn’t be for some of them? They’re broad platitudes that propose something that they apparently kept hidden under a bushel for the last 16 years and now will unveil. “Well, I think it’ll just be the same old tired, rejected, retread Republican proposals to give more income tax breaks to those at the top, and if you believe that they’ve got something new to offer to genuinely reform our health care system in a way that will help middle class Americans instead of health insurance monopolies, I think you’ll want to buy some of that Republican ice cream that helps you lose weight. “Our families don’t need Republican platitudes, they need real help. “And I have to say, I think the Tea Party types are right about one thing: there are dangers from soaring debt— dangers they forgot for a decade. There are dangers from big government. But you know that’s not the only threat our families face. They face threats from big banks, from big insurance monopolies, from the big pharmaceutical monopolies that charge our people more than any place in the world. And sometimes, our families need government to come down on our side, because otherwise, those giant economic forces will take advantage of our families by writing out the very protection that the sick and injured need the most—protection that they write into the fine print of an insurance policy that no ordinary person can understand, where you are told you are not covered anymore, that you have a pre-existing condition, that you have reached your policy limits and cannot get the care your doctors says is vital to sustain your life, that this policy just doesn’t cover sick people, or that it can be rescinded. “I say we need to provide people genuine protection—that’s what we did last year; that’s what they want to eliminate this year. Let’s be on the side of the people, not the 12 Republican platitudes to benefit insurance monopolies.” ###
01.18.2011	Full text of Rep. Doggett’s remarks as delivered follow below: The choice here is whether to give more money to insurance monopolies or leave a little bit in the pockets of middle class Americans. But for House Republicans, putting insurance companies first seems to be a pre-existing condition. This bill isn’t repeal and replace, it is repeal and forget— forget the health care needs of millions of Americans, forget the hundreds of billions of dollars that they, with this repeal, add to our federal debt. Within a year, Allison, a 23-year-old in Bastrop, Texas, who is completing her college degree and caring for her mother who faces another round of breast cancer, would lose her health insurance. Emily from Wimberley, who is battling cancer herself, would now face lifetime limits on what doctor- recommended care her insurer will pay for and of course, if her husband loses or changes his job, she won’t have any insurance at all. And Charlotte, an Austin senior, she would have to pay more for prescriptions and preventive health care, while Republicans reduce the solvency of the Medicare Trust Fund by over a decade. Family budgets could be crushed by this bill as health care costs remain the leading cause of credit card debt and bankruptcy. And this same devastating Republican bill would also hike the federal debt—that’s why Republicans have rejected pay-as-you-go budgeting and instead will borrow from the Chinese to pay for today’s actions. Yes, repeal is a priority for the insurance companies and their apologists. Neither our family budgets nor our federal budget can afford it. I believe that every American family is entitled to a family doctor, not an appointment with a bankruptcy judge because of soaring healthcare costs. ###
01.18.2011	“For House Republicans, putting insurance companies first seems to be a pre-existing condition. This bill isn’t repeal and replace, it is repeal and forget—forget the health care needs of millions of Americans , forget the hundreds of billions of dollars that they, with this repeal, add to our federal debt,” said Rep. Doggett.
01.12.2011	Financing Texas Schools Re “The Texas Omen” (column, Jan. 7): We applaud Paul Krugman for highlighting Gov. Rick Perry’s disastrous use of “smoke and mirrors” budgeting. In 2009, the governor used $3.25 billion in federal education money to replace state education funds, denying any additional support for Texas schools. When Congress considered providing new education financing for states last year, the Texas Democratic delegation worked to prevent history from repeating itself. We acted in concert with Texas superintendents and major statewide education groups to craft a provision ensuring that $830 million of new education financing actually helps Texas schools. Our provision prohibits more anti-education “smoke and mirrors” budgeting. But the governor refused to sign the three-page financing application because it requires him to use the money as Congress intended — for education. Five months later, Texas is one of two states that have not been awarded funds from this bill, and the governor continues to delay to the detriment of Texas schools. Lloyd Doggett Washington, Jan. 10, 2011 The writer, who represents Texas’s 25th Congressional District, wrote this letter on behalf of the Texas Democratic Congressional delegation.
01.07.2011	Full text of Rep. Doggett’s remarks as prepared for delivery follow below: <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"> If you’re hit by a truck this afternoon or your child contracts a dreaded disease, your future ought not to depend on the fine print in an insurance policy you didn’t have anything to do with writing. No insurance monopoly should stand between you and your doctor. Unfortunately, the Republican Party is but an arm of the insurance industry. They ask for a vote to further empower those monopolies; we ask for a vote to empower American families. A vote to repeal is a vote to maintain health care costs as the leading cause of personal bankruptcy and credit card debt in this country. It is a vote to require seniors to pay more— more for prescription drugs, more for diabetes and cancer screenings. We can stand with American families today or we can kneel to insurance monopolies. The choice is clear: let’s vote for American families. ###
01.07.2011	
01.05.2011	Full text of his remarks follow below. “On Day One of this new Congress, the Republicans’ first step is backwards. While professing such great concern about spending and debt, they abandon pay-as-you-go budgeting, returning to the Bush-Cheney approach— endless borrowing. <?xml:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office"> “‘Cut-go’ just cuts fiscal discipline and says, ‘Go borrow from the Chinese.’ “House Republicans are like the fellow who bellies up to the bar, asking for just one more round of tax breaks for his buddies, while declaring, ‘Put it on my tab.’ But it’s really our tab. By focusing on only half the budget equation, and avoiding revenue stewardship, they reject sound fiscal leadership.” ###
01.05.2011	What is the Difference Between the Debt and the Deficit? Click here for a brief explanation as well as some relevant figures on definitions from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. How Would You Close the Budget Gap Try this interactive Budget Puzzle from the New York Times here. Looking for more? You can try your hand at closing the budget gap with yet another Budget Simulator from the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget here. Please share with me your results and any insights this exercise may have prompted by e-mailing me at This e-mail address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. Deficit Reduction Proposals You may have heard about the various proposals to get our budget in balance. While I may not agree with all of the recommendations, these proposals illustrate the magnitude of the problem with must tackle. Learn more about them here. President Obama’s National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. The Commission was charged with identifying policies to improve the fiscal situation in the medium term and to achieve fiscal sustainability over the long run. Click here to read more. The Bipartisan Policy Center. BPC is a non-profit organization that was established in 2007 by former Senate Majority Leaders Howard Baker, Tom Daschle, Bob Dole and George Mitchell. Click here to read more. Galston-MacGuineas Plan. Maya MacGuineas is director of the Fiscal Policy Program at the New America Foundation and president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. Bill Galston is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. Click here to read more. Schakowsky Plan. Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) is a member of the bipartisan National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. Click here to read more. Many of these proposals have common threads. The chart below shows the similarities among some of the plans (Chart Courtesy: The Washington Post). Click on the image to open in a new window. Tax Expenditures Everybody is talking about reducing spending, but another part of the budget problem is the proliferation of tax expenditures. Also called spending through the Tax Code, tax expenditures cost over $1 trillion, roughly 25% of our overall government spending. What is a tax expenditure? Tax expenditures are officially defined as, “those revenue losses attributable to provisions of the Federal tax laws which allow a special exclusion, exemption, or deduction from gross income or which provide a special credit, a preferential rate of tax, or a deferral of tax liability.” Getting this Tax Code spending under control is a critical part of solve the budget crisis. I have been a leader in calling for greater scrutiny of these tax expenditures to ensure we are getting the most “bang-for-the-buck.” You can read more about the problem of the growth of tax expenditures and my work to curb their growth by clicking here. To view my speech at the Center for American Progress and related articles, click here. Learn More about How the New House Rules Will Cause Great Harm to the Deficit. At the beginning of every Congress, the majority party proposes new rules to guide the upcoming Congress. Disappointingly, despite all their professed concern about the size of the deficit, among the first acts of the Republicans is to propose new rules that would actually increase the deficit and further distort our Tax Code. They are planning to replace the fiscally responsible Pay-As-You-Go (PAYGO) budgeting rule with their so-called “Cut-Go” rule, which allows all tax cuts to go on the “national credit card” instead of actually paying for them. This change I strongly oppose this change because we cannot afford to return to the fiction that tax breaks do not add to the deficit. I am further concerned that the requirement that only spending increases must be offset--and not tax breaks--further encourages the proliferation of tax loopholes and unjustified tax exceptions. You can view my piece in the Huffington Post by clicking here.To read the report from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities click here. The Washington Post and New York Times have also opposed this new rule. Click here to read the New York Times editorial and here to read the Post. Debt Ceiling As you may know, we were on track to hit the debt ceiling on August 2. A last minute deal averted the crisis by raising the debt ceiling in connection with deficit reduction measures This section will provide resources to assist you in following the contours of this debate and its resolution. What Is the Debt Ceiling? Even though the debt ceiling debate has been resolved for the moment, many may still be wondering exactly what the debt ceiling is. Here are two articles that provide a basic overview of the debt ceiling. Article 1. Article 2. Want more information? Click here to watch a recent PBS NewsHour segment. Why is the Debt Ceiling So Controversial? The debt ceiling is normally a routine matter. It was raised 7 times under George W. Bush, for example. This year is different. Click here for an analysis of why from a columnist with whom I normally disagree. In this case, however, I believe he has captured the essence of the problem. Consequences of a Default As you may have heard, the consequences of a default caused by failing to raise the debt ceiling could be catastrophic. Click here for an analysis by economist Simon Johnson on the devastating impact default would have on our economy. Center for American Progress takes a look at the impact of default on National security and on the poor and people of color. You may also be interested in an analysis of how failing to raise the debt ceiling could harm our fragile recovery generally. Failure to raise the debt ceiling means nearly impossible choices about which bills get paid and which don’t. If you were the President, what choices would you make in the event of a default? Try this interactive exercise and explore Treasury’s limited options. Negotiations over Raising the Debt Ceiling A lot of people have asked me for more information about the various plans for deficit reduction associated with an agreement to raise the debt ceiling. Click here to view the New York Times interactive comparison between the plans.Here is a summary of the final deal. Republican Plan to Reform Our Tax Code Learn More How the Republican Plan to Reform our Tax Code Increases the National Debt Addressing our long-term fiscal challenges and getting our soaring national debt under control are critical to getting our economy moving in the right direction. Almost daily, Republicans on Capitol Hill talk about the need to reign in our growing deficit. However, their latest proposal to reform the tax code demonstrates once again how their policies do not match their rhetoric. The latest tax reform plan put forth by Chairman Camp, head of the Ways and Means Committee, cuts the corporate tax rate from 35% to 25%. Recently, the non-partisan Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT), recognized for its objectivity and expertise, found that there is simply no way to cut the rate to 25% without adding to the federal deficit. Republicans dogmatically believe that we can cut the corporate tax rate without adding to the national deficit. Now we know that the Republican tax plan, at least with respect to cutting the corporate tax rate to 25%, without having to borrow more from the Chinese or raise other taxes, is pure fantasy. Want more information? Here are two articles describing how the Republican tax plan will add to our national debt: https://www.forbes.com/sites/beltway/2011/11/02/mission-impossible-cutting-the-corporate-tax-rate-to-25-percent/ https://www.businessweek.com/news/2011-11-08/break-free-corporate-tax-code-misses-republican-rate-goal.html A Balanced Budget Amendment Will Not Fix Our Deficit Crisis What is a Balanced Budget Amendment? Recently, the Republican led House forced a vote on a so-called “balanced budget” amendment to our Constitution. That amendment would have required total federal outlays in any given year not exceed the total amount of revenue taken in unless Congress voted with a three-fifths majority to allow it. With my vote against it, the House failed to pass this amendment.What a prominent conservative commentator thinks about a balanced budget amendment. Even some conservative economists recognize the insanity of adding a balanced budget amendment to the supreme law of the land. Bruce Bartlett, a former economic advisor for President Reagan, recently wrote an article in the New York Times titled: The Balanced Budget Amendment Delusion. In that article, Mr. Bartlett points out that balancing the budget annually is conceptually a reasonable proposition, but requiring it via the Constitution is in his words a “dreadful idea” that is frankly “nuts.”Proponents argue that a balanced budget is the only thing that will reign in our soaring deficits. Yet, these are the same folks that continually push for even more tax cuts for both the wealthiest among us and corporations that are seeing record profits despite evidence that more tax cuts only drive us deeper into debt. These are the same folks that reject common sense proposals such as closing corporate tax loopholes and asking the most privileged in our society to pay their fare share, policies that would help bring down our debt. As Mr. Bartlett candidly states in his New York Times article, “Republicans don’t care one whit about actually balancing the budget.” If you would like to read Mr. Bartlett’s article in it entirety, please click on this link, https://economix.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/11/15/the-balanced-budget-amendment-delusion/s. As you know, I have consistently fought for fiscal discipline and balanced budgets no matter which party was in power. But a constitutional amendment is not a path to a balanced budget; it is only an excuse for members of this body for not casting the tough votes to achieve one. I am thankful that that the House rejected this latest attempt by Republicans to enact a balanced budget amendment that would have jeopardized our economic future, threatened vital programs such as Social Security and Medicare, and forced cuts to veterans programs. You can listen to my remarks by clicking on this link https://youtu.be/9xYwKKX7rOg Of course, part of the process of determining how to get our deficit under control involves listening to you and your priorities. I wanted to bring to your attention the “Budget Puzzle” created by the New York Times, which allows you to choose various options to try to close the budget gap. You can try your hand at bringing down the deficit by clicking here
01.05.2011	Read more from The Hill here.
01.04.2011	Read more in my Huffington Post blog here.
12.17.2010	December 17, 2010
12.16.2010	December 16, 2010
12.15.2010	“Social Security’s dedicated funding base is jeopardized by this deal in an unprecedented way and there is a grave risk now that the retirement benefits of America’s workers will have to compete with our other priorities for a share of the general budget. It would result in Social Security being as dependent on annual Congressional action as public television or our National parks,” said Rep. Doggett. He added: “The provision is also inequitable because, in many states, a substantial number of local and state employees do not participate in the Social Security system. They have no payroll taxes to cut and will receive no benefit from this portion of the deal.” “Although the payroll tax cut is written as a one-year cut, there is a grave danger that it will not end up being a single year reduction but will be transformed into a permanent change in Social Security’s financing. The fact that it is included in a piece of legislation that is providing yet another extension of almost a Trillion dollars in tax cuts that were also intended to be temporary should give pause to anyone who believes it will be easy to let this cut lapse at the end of 2011,” said Max Richtman, Executive Vice President, National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare.
12.15.2010	There's a very good reason why people pay Social Security taxes — so they'll get Social Security," Doggett said at a press conference in the Capitol. "I'd rather have nothing done in this area than to do great harm." Rep. Rush Holt (D-N.J.) warned the provision could dismantle Social Security's ownership-based funding mechanism, in which workers pay into the program while they’re employed to tap the benefits in retirement. "It undermines the very rationale of Social Security in ways that could do long-term damage," Holt said. "As much as we need economic stimulus now, we will need Social Security for decades to come." Doggett said it's unclear how much support he'll have for his amendment. The tax package — which passed the Senate 81-19 on Wednesday — is scheduled for consideration in the House Rules Committee Wednesday afternoon. House Democratic leaders have said the final vote on the bill will likely be Thursday. Doggett and Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.), among the most vocal critics of the White House proposal, both said they intend to vote against the package unless the payroll-tax provision is altered. "This is a raw deal," DeFazio said. The tax-cut proposal — crafted by the White House and Senate Republicans — would reduce the payroll tax from 6.2 to 4.2 percent in 2011. The cut is two percentage points, but represents a real payroll tax cut of 32 percent. A worker currently earning $100,000, for instance, will pay $6,200 in payroll taxes in 2010, and $4,200 in 2011 if the bill passes — a 32 percent reduction. The payroll tax holiday is scheduled to expire at the end of 2011. But critics contend there will be little appetite in Congress to return the tax to 6.2 percent in 2012 — a move likely to be packaged by anti-tax advocates as a 48 percent tax hike in a presidential election year. "There is a real danger … that it will be changed into a permanent deduction," said Max Richtman, executive vice president of the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, an advocacy group. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates the cut will reduce federal revenues by $112 billion over the next two years. Because the tax package is not offset by changes elsewhere in the budget, the government will have to borrow to fill that hole in the Social Security trust fund. With the country's newfound focus on deficit reduction, the liberals said, backfilling the trust fund with borrowed money will leave Social Security vying for funds against other discretionary programs, like public television and national parks. "By having this holiday we're breaking the contract," DeFazio said. "Most members do not understand the implications of this."
12.10.2010	December 10, 2010
12.10.2010	December 9, 2010
12.09.2010	
12.09.2010	December 9, 2010
12.09.2010	December 9, 2010 <?xml:namespace prefix = st1> Washington—Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett discussed the resolution he wrote, which the House Democratic Caucus passed, that states: “The Democratic Caucus resolves that in its current form the tax package should not come to the floor of the House for consideration.”
12.01.2010	"It is these interest-bearing trust accounts that currently finance legal services for those who need it most -- veterans who have served honorably, domestic violence victims and persons with disabilities," Doggett said. The funds are guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) through Dec. 31. But the financial services overhaul law (PL 111-203) enacted earlier this year, which requires the FDIC to provide separate, unlimited deposit insurance for all non-interest-bearing transaction accounts until Jan. 1, 2013, would no longer include those accounts under the agency's protection. The House passed an amended version of Doggett's bill (HR 6398) on Tuesday. The bill would modify the financial overhaul law to include those accounts in FDIC insurance protection. Doggett said the FDIC guarantee would ensure that small, independent banks are on a level playing field with larger competitors in securing trust fund deposits. Judy Biggert, R-Ill., noted that if the FDIC's guarantee was allowed to lapse, attorneys in as many as 37 states might be forced to transfer those interest accounts from community banks to larger, safer institutions. "If the coverage for these accounts is not extended, a critical source of civil, legal . . . aid might unnecessarily and inappropriately shrink," Biggert said. Biggert, citing the Congressional Budget Office, said that the bill would cost $15 million over five years, but would raise $2 million over a 10-year period. Doggett said he hoped the Senate would pass the bill without attaching any extraneous provisions that could potentially hold up its enactment. (c)2010 Congressional Quarterly Inc. All Rights Reserved.
12.01.2010	“It is these interest bearing trust accounts that currently finance legal services for those who need it most—veterans who have served honorably, domestic violence victims, and persons with disabilities,” said Rep. Doggett. “This bill is supported by a broad range of groups, including the Independent Community Bankers Association and the American Bar Association. This protection also ensures that small independent banks are on a level playing field with their larger competitors in securing trust fund deposits.” Video of Rep. Doggett’s remarks on the floor of the House are available by clicking here.
11.17.2010	Taxpayers who locate their name on the IRS Refund List below can use Where’s My Refund? on www.irs.gov to check on the status of the missing refund, initiate refund tracers and update their addresses online, 24/7. Taxpayers without internet access can call 1-800-829-1954 to check on a missing refund.Click here to see the list of individuals due a tax refund check.
11.16.2010	More information on open enrollment for Medicare beneficiaries is available at https://www.Medicare.gov. Or, if you have questions, e-mail Rep. Doggett at Lloyd.Doggett@mail.house.gov.
11.12.2010	by ANDREW CHUNG / KVUE News When Linda Hutson looks at photos of her late dad, Army Corporal William Earl Shults, the memories are there. "I just thought my daddy was a skinny kid. I didn't know he had been in a prison camp when some of these pictures were made, just months before,” Linda said. Corporal Shults was in that prison camp following the infamous Bataan Death March. The memories were too painful and traumatic for him to share. "I never ever remember my dad speaking about it. I do remember my mother saying, 'Go back to bed. He's having a nightmare about the war'," she added. Linda wanted to find out more about her dad, who died in 1998. "People in my days, before the Internet, never had computers and we didn't have the money to hire a high-priced genealogist to study your family," Linda says. Linda's home is in essence a treasure trove of history. She is kept photos and other reminders of her father so people will remember the sacrifices he made for our country. A trip to the public library and some help from relatives shed light on Corporal Shults. He was a P.O.W. who was part of the Bataan Death March. "They would make American soldiers, in order to live, just to be able to keep marching, they'd make you cut the head off of your fellow soldier who went down," said Linda of her dad’s Japanese captors. Thousands died. Corporal Shults survived. Further research by Linda revealed her dad received numerous military honors, and only now is Corporal William Earl Shults getting the recognition he deserves. "She had requested these medals from our office for the first time just a few months ago and so we were fortunate to able to get them rather speedily. I think she had some of the medals in the past but over time he may not have been awarded all the medals," says U.S. Representative Lloyd Doggett, who presented Shults’ eight medals to Linda, including the Purple Heart. Linda wants people to remember the past. "We need to know who we come from. We need to know where we've been. We need to know that we are not a free nation automatically. We need to know that people have suffered mightily," she said. Finally knowing her dad's heroic past brings her closure.
09.24.2010	Department of Education letter Gov. Perry 2010 altered request Gov. Perry 2009 request Texas Democratic Congressional Delegation Letter (9/17/2010)
09.23.2010	Health consumers to start feeling effects By Alison Young Page: 8A Wednesday, September 22, 2010 Several key consumer protections under the nation's new health law begin taking effect Thursday — six months after its enactment. Insurers can no longer set a dollar limit on the amount of care they'll provide over a person's lifetime or deny coverage to sick children. Young adults can stay on their parents' health plans until age 26. And consumers get greater rights to appeal insurers' decisions. "It's really putting in place long overdue consumer protections," Health Secretary Kathleen Sebelius said in an interview with USA TODAY. "It's getting rid of some of the worst rules of the industry that prevented people from getting covered at all or, at a time they needed coverage the most, limited the coverage they had." Many people, however, will have to wait until Jan. 1 for the changes to help them. That's because most of the new provisions apply to insurance policies that begin on or after Thursday. Many plans operate on a calendar year, and this fall will begin enrollment for next year. "It's not like a switch gets flipped and everything gets changed on Sept. 23," said Jennifer Tolbert, an associate director at the Kaiser Family Foundation, a health policy group. Steve Findlay, a senior health policy analyst at the non-profit watchdog group Consumers Union, said consumers need to focus on the law's benefits, "what it does for them and their loved ones — rather than listen to politically driven criticisms and attempts to undermine the law." What's changing USA TODAY's Alison Young looks at key provisions of the new health law starting to take effect Thursday. For more information, go to www.healthcare.gov: Keeping young adults covered The basics: Teens and young adults can stay on or be added to their parents' health insurance plan until age 26. They don't need to live with their parents or be financially dependent on them. They can even be married. Be aware: This right to coverage applies to all types of plans that offer dependent coverage. However, in "grandfathered" employer group plans -- policies that existed before the law and haven't changed substantially -- children are not eligible to go on parents' plans if the children have access to coverage through their own workplace. The basics: Insurers must completely cover a wide range of recommended preventive services -- such as immunizations, mammograms and colonoscopies -- and can no longer charge co-payments, co-insurance or deductibles for them. Free preventive care Be aware: This applies only to new plans, not to grandfathered plans. For plans that had limited preventive services, this benefit may contribute to higher premium costs. The basics: New rules prevent insurers from denying coverage to children under age 19 with pre-existing medical conditions, such as asthma or cancer. Coverage for sick children Be aware: Insurers may limit when children are signed up to certain open enrollment periods. This does not apply to grandfathered individual plans. Similar protections for adults with pre-existing medical conditions won't begin until 2014. In the meantime, adults with medical conditions who have been uninsured for at least six months can purchase coverage through federal high-risk pools created by the health law this summer. The basics: Insurers no longer can use a mistake or technical error in a consumer's application to cut off their coverage after they get sick. Protection against canceled coverage Be aware: Consumers are not protected if they make an intentional misrepresentation of important facts or engage in fraud. In such cases, the insurer must give at least 30 days notice before the plan can be canceled. The basics: The amount a plan will pay in a person's lifetime cannot be capped. No lifetime coverage limits Be aware: This applies to all health plans. Insurers must notify people who exceeded their lifetime limits before Sept. 23 that those limits no longer apply. For plans that had lower premium costs because of lifetime limits, this benefit may contribute to higher premium costs. The basics: Insurance companies with annual limits on essential health benefits must provide an increasing amount of coverage. Initially, their annual limit can be no less than $750,000, rising to $1.25 million in September 2011 and $2 million in 2012. Annual limits are prohibited in 2014. Restrictions on annual coverage limits Be aware: This applies to new individual and group plans, as well as grandfathered group plans. It does not apply to grandfathered individual plans. It does not apply to "mini-med" plans that provide limited health benefits. The basics: Consumers have the right to appeal insurers' decisions through their plans' internal review processes, as well as to an independent, third-party reviewer. Greater consumer appeals rights Be aware: This does not apply to grandfathered plans. Most states already have rules allowing some form of external appeal of insurance problems. The level of protection varies greatly, and states have until next summer to meet all federal standards, or the federal government will run the appeals programs in those states. Residents of Alabama, Mississippi and Nebraska -- states that lack any external appeals law -- will have access to an interim external review process administered by the federal Office of Personnel Management. Consumers in these states who have questions about an external appeal can call 1-877-549-8152 beginning Sept. 23.
09.22.2010	During his questioning, he also made clear that while he shares the view that in this time of growing deficits, we must be ferreting out wasteful spending, this federal support for education is not where cuts should be made:. “I have heard this view echoed loudly by some in Texas who seem not only interested in taking America back but taking it backward. If parents [and states] could shoulder all of these responsibilities, these loan programs wouldn’t have been set up by President Eisenhower and others on a bipartisan basis back in the 1950s.” The witnesses agreed that getting rid of these programs that make post-secondary education attainable for so many would be “disastrous.”
09.22.2010	During his questioning, he also made clear that while he shares the view that in this time of growing deficits, we must be ferreting out wasteful spending, this federal support for education is not where cuts should be made:. “I have heard this view echoed loudly by some in Texas who seem not only interested in taking America back but taking it backward. If parents [and states] could shoulder all of these responsibilities, these loan programs wouldn’t have been set up by President Eisenhower and others on a bipartisan basis back in the 1950s.” The witnesses agreed that getting rid of these programs that make post-secondary education attainable for so many would be “disastrous.”
09.21.2010	Mike Oldham of Smithville [right] and Steve Maikell of Sweetwater [left] present U.S. Congressman Lloyd Doggett with the 2010 Legislative “White Hat” Award on behalf of the Texas Farmers Union for Rep. Doggett’s outstanding voting record on behalf of Texas farmers, ranchers, and rural communities. “Congressman Doggett has won this honor consistently through the years for his work on behalf of our families,” said Oldham. “From plow to plate, it’s critical that we preserve our way of life in rural communities. From pressing Agriculture Secretary Vilsack last year for timely drought relief to supporting a strong Farm Bill, I will keep listening to and advancing their priorities,” said Rep. Doggett.
09.10.2010	Supporters of the ongoing effort to build a one-stop social services campus for <?xml:namespace prefix = st1> Hays County residents gathered this week to review architectural plans for the Village Main building in San Marcos. <?xml:namespace prefix = o> The stakeholders’ meeting coincided with an announcement from U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett that the non-profit groups behind the village project are in line for a $450,000 federal appropriations grant to go toward construction of the main building, the first on the 22-acre campus at Hunter Road and Reimer Ave. The earmark still must be approved by the Senate. “That will be money to ensure this project becomes a reality as soon as possible,” Doggett said. “Different organizations are out there doing their work now, but I think they will be even more effective when they are neighbors, being a one-stop service for Hays County citizens who need a little help.” Hays County non-profit groups involved in the Village project include Community Action, Early Childhood Intervention – Homespun, the Hays County Family Justice Center and the Women, Infants and Children program. The Village Main is planned as a 22,000-square-foot complex and will include wings for each of the non-profits, a central common area with a multi-purpose meeting room and a courtyard. The building is expected to cost approximately $3 million of which $1 million has been raised or committed including the expected federal funds, said Nora Linares-Moeller, a Family Justice Center board member involved in the Village project. The city of San Marcos contributed $500,000. Though times are rough economically, Mayor Susan Narvaiz said, the funding was justified because consolidating non-profits under one roof will save money in the long run.' “When you have one (project) that is several agencies who would normally compete against each other come together for the sake of efficiency, it deserves our support, and that is what these agencies have done,” Narvaiz said. Doggett said he takes personal interest in the project, especially in the Hays County Family Justice Center, which helps victims of domestic abuse. He said when he was a state senator he helped obtain funding for a battered women’s center, which eventually became Safe Place in Austin and spurred the creation of the Texas Council on Family Violence. Todd Bennett, principal of TrB Architecture, said Village Main will be built with sustainability in mind. The building will be oriented to maximize natural lighting using rows of windows above eye-level. Native plants will be used in landscaping to limit the need for irrigation and the courtyard will feature a rain garden, which will slow storm water runoff, he said. Village Main will be the first building clients encounter at the entrance to the Village Campus. The campus will include a food bank, nature center, playground and the Christian Federation of Police Officers youth sports fields, which are already in place on the far east side of the campus. Riemer Avenue will run through the center of the campus to the sports fields. Bennett said his company aimed to make the campus as friendly and welcoming as possible by utilizing the road. “We looked at bringing the building to the street so it really has a presence,” Bennett said. “We acknowledged that a lot of people will come to this campus by car, but many will come by bus, so we envisioned Riemer being a main street that gives the campus its whole identity and feeling.” Linares-Moeller said the project will be complete in about two years and is still in the fundraising stage. Stakeholders are currently sending requests for grants and asking individuals for donations, she said.
09.08.2010	Department of Education to reject his improper request. As Rep. Doggett explains in an earlier statement, ' Texas still has the potential to access federal funds that the Department continues to hold for local Texas schools... This struggle is not about more spending; it is about ensuring that the federal spending we already have is used for the purpose for which it is intended—in this case strengthening public education. It is not about forcing the State to spend more, but only about seeing that the State does not deny aid to education to local schools solely because they have received additional federal aid.’ Rep. Doggett also notes that at this time of economic uncertainty, he supports extending the Bush Tax Cuts for middle class families and is eager for Congress to approve legislation to continue necessary government operations in a fiscally responsible manner before promptly concluding this Session.
09.01.2010	During four previous years, readers of the Austin Chronicle have named him “Best Elected Official,” and during another year he was named “Best Unsung Hero.” “With a number of able officials in Central Texas, this is tough competition. I am most appreciative,” said Doggett.
08.25.2010	As I continue to listen and visit with families in Central Texas, I was pleased to participate in another town-hall meeting, this time at the National Night Out in Lockhart. As was evident by the great turnout this year down at City Park and then over to Bill and Dorothy Buckner’s annual gathering, there are many reasons to take prid...e in the Lockhart community and the rest of Caldwell County. And, certainly the security of our neighborhoods and the professionalism of the men and women in the Lockhart and Luling Police Departments, led by Chief Mike Lummus and Chief Bill Salas, are at the top of that list. While it is easy to be brave from a distance, our law enforcement officers know bravery up close. The spirit of National Night Out is to show that our police officers are not alone in fighting crime – that we all must work together – house by house, neighborhood by neighborhood, to keep our streets safe. I will continue working to ensure our police in small towns across Central Texas have state of the art technology to fight crime While most of my time was devoted to listening to residents, you can hear my remarks (over the sound of the cicadas!) after the introduction of Lockhart Chief of Police Mike Lummus by clicking here.
08.20.2010	This video is a great illustration of the good work that both the Capital Area Food Bank and Boys and Girls Club do helping many local children get good, nutritious meals over the summer while school is out of session. On a hot afternoon, I enjoyed visiting with the kids and the devoted staff working with them in this important endeavor. It was another reminder of the importance of federal support for our local food banks, which are vital to the well being of thousands of our neighbors. To watch a video of my visit, please click here.
08.20.2010	(Note: The first minute of this video has no sound, but my introduction and remarks begin shortly thereafter.) Attending a Groundbreaking for the groundbreaking visionaries, Ron and Carolyn Yokubaitis. They dreamed of the potential of Data Foundry and now they are expanding to this Data Ranch with careful planning and the dynamic team working for them. The success achieved here in Central Texas is remarkable. In 1994, Data Foundry—as Texas-dot-net— imagined the Internet's potential to transform the way we work and live as few others did. With bold risk-taking and smart execution, this company has grown from a fledgling start-up to an international high-tech leader. I was happy to take part in the groundbreaking of the premier greenfield data center in Texas. To see my remarks, please click here.
08.12.2010	When President Obama addressed thousands at UT this week, I appreciated his focus on making education more affordable for students and their families. This is certainly a concern on which we have complete agreement, even though we have differing views on some other major national issues. And I especially appreciated his comments on the near $14 billion “More Education” targeted tax cut, which I authored. It encourages those, who want to further their education and gain more job skills. Those who spend up to $2,500 for tuition, textbooks and course materials, can take $2,500 off their federal tax bill. I look forward to working with him to ensure that this tax cut is expanded and continued. To see an excerpt of the President’s discussion of my “More Education” tax credit, please click here. If you would like to hear President Obama’s remarks at the University of Texas in their entirety, please click here.
08.06.2010	There is no Constitutional limitation on doing right by our Texas schoolchildren. The obligation that this amendment places on Texas is to spend new education dollars on education purposes. Our schoolchildren deserve no less. And that is why this approach has enjoyed the support of the Texas Association of School Boards and statewide groups representing teachers, principals, and school administrators from across the State.Compliance is very easy, unless there remains a hidden Republican agenda to avoid accountability and to engage in more of the shenanigans of last year, which replaced state education dollars with federal dollars, leaving our schools no better off than if we had done nothing. Instead of concocting phony legalistic arguments to deny our local schools the funds that they so desperately need, Governor Perry should join with us in support of public education. To get a better understanding of what is happening, please read: “Texas to Sue if Congress Restricts School Funds” in the San Antonio Express News by clicking here. “Doggett Rejects GOP Leadership Arguments and Seems to Hold All the Cards” from The Quorum Report by clicking here. “Doggett: Keep School Funds in Schools” from the Austin Chronicle by clicking here.
07.22.2010	To see one of the best examples of why we need today’s hearing, you can view a brief ABC News investigative report by Jesse Drucker for Bloomberg News, by clicking here.
07.22.2010	To see one of the best examples of why we need today’s hearing, you can view a brief ABC News investigative report by Jesse Drucker for Bloomberg News, by clicking here.
07.21.2010	Congressman Doggett has been a long-time advocate of open government—of making all levels of government more accessible to the people they represent. As a Texas State Senator, he sought more public participation and open decision-making, as a Justice on the Texas Supreme Court, his work to make some of the workings of our justice system more open, won him a James Madison Award by the Freedom of Information Foundation of Texas, and the First Amendment Award from the National Society of Professional Journalists.
07.15.2010	There is every reason to celebrate the 75th anniversary of Social Security, but unfortunately resistance from various forces to Social Security has lasted more than 75 years and continues to this day—it just changes forms and tactics. Ensuring that our grandchildren have the same protection as our grandparents do today must remain a goal. Today, I questioned Nancy Altman, the Co-Director of Social Security Works on how we can work together to maintain the essential role Social Security plays in the lives of American families as they face retirement, disability, or the death of a bread-winner not just today, but far into the future. To listen to this questioning, please click here.
06.30.2010	Today I spoke in favor of the Wall Street Reform bill. If you are mugged on the street, you’ll lose the contents of your wallet, but if you are mugged by Wall Street, you can lose the savings of a lifetime. This bill arms families with more ways to protect themselves. In my speech, I did acknowledge that this bill should have done much more about those Wall Street interests that are paid too much, taxed too little, and whose immense power continues to threaten our economic stability. But with stubborn opposition from both Senate Republicans and the Treasury Department to other, more complete reforms, we at least make significant strides forward in offering consumer protection that Americans deserve. To watch my full remarks, please click here.
06.30.2010	Today I spoke in favor of the Wall Street Reform bill. If you are mugged on the street, you’ll lose the contents of your wallet, but if you are mugged by Wall Street, you can lose the savings of a lifetime. This bill arms families with more ways to protect themselves. In my speech, I did acknowledge that this bill should have done much more about those Wall Street interests that are paid too much, taxed too little, and whose immense power continues to threaten our economic stability. But with stubborn opposition from both Senate Republicans and the Treasury Department to other, more complete reforms, we at least make significant strides forward in offering consumer protection that Americans deserve. To watch my full remarks, please click here.
06.24.2010	Earlier this year, the Supreme Court overturned decades of precedent in a misguided court case freeing corporations to engage directly in political activity that had long been prohibited, including financing their own campaign commercials. In response, the House today will vote on legislation, the Disclose Act, which requires stricter disclosure requirements on such political activity. I spoke in support of the bill, stating “This is a vote for a fully informed, fully empowered American people. We want to keep America the best democracy, not the best democracy money can buy. This bill stops a tobacco company from masquerading as a phony ‘healthcare coalition’; a Wall Street bank from promoting another bailout as a ‘consumer alliance’; and a polluter claiming it is ‘citizens for clean air and clean beaches’ while attacking those seeking to hold it accountable.” To listen to my full remarks, please click here.
06.24.2010	Earlier this year, the Supreme Court overturned decades of precedent in a misguided court case freeing corporations to engage directly in political activity that had long been prohibited, including financing their own campaign commercials. In response, the House today will vote on legislation, the Disclose Act, which requires stricter disclosure requirements on such political activity. I spoke in support of the bill, stating “This is a vote for a fully informed, fully empowered American people. We want to keep America the best democracy, not the best democracy money can buy. This bill stops a tobacco company from masquerading as a phony ‘healthcare coalition’; a Wall Street bank from promoting another bailout as a ‘consumer alliance’; and a polluter claiming it is ‘citizens for clean air and clean beaches’ while attacking those seeking to hold it accountable.” To listen to my full remarks, please click here.
06.17.2010	I have been trying to put a stop to the unchecked growth of tax breaks and to slow our growing National debt. I am concerned about spending—whether through the Appropriations Act or the Tax Code. We need to closely examine both types of expenditures to ensure that each is effective, efficient and truly necessary. As we continue seeking ways to reduce the deficit, I look forward to hearing from you. I believe that closing tax loopholes is an important way to protect the Treasury and better avoid raising taxes on working families. You may view my exchange with Jeffrey Liebman, Acting Deputy Director, Office of Management and Budget by clicking here.
06.17.2010	I have been trying to put a stop to the unchecked growth of tax breaks and to slow our growing National debt. I am concerned about spending—whether through the Appropriations Act or the Tax Code. We need to closely examine both types of expenditures to ensure that each is effective, efficient and truly necessary. As we continue seeking ways to reduce the deficit, I look forward to hearing from you. I believe that closing tax loopholes is an important way to protect the Treasury and better avoid raising taxes on working families. You may view my exchange with Jeffrey Liebman, Acting Deputy Director, Office of Management and Budget by clicking here.
06.17.2010	44 million Americans are carrying in their wallet or purse something that makes them more vulnerable to identity theft: their Medicare card. Apart from the Social Security card itself, the Medicare card is the most frequently issued government document containing a person’s Social Security number and displaying such information on Medicare cards unnecessarily places millions of individuals at-risk for identity theft. In 2008, the House of Representatives passed without objection my bill, the Medicare Identity Theft Prevention Act, which requires Medicare to take steps that private companies and other government agencies have already taken to protect the identities of seniors by removing the display of Social Security numbers on Medicare cards. Unfortunately, this important step to protect America’s seniors has not been taken. To see my questioning of the Director of Medicare Program Integrity at the CMS, please click here.
06.17.2010	44 million Americans are carrying in their wallet or purse something that makes them more vulnerable to identity theft: their Medicare card. Apart from the Social Security card itself, the Medicare card is the most frequently issued government document containing a person’s Social Security number and displaying such information on Medicare cards unnecessarily places millions of individuals at-risk for identity theft. In 2008, the House of Representatives passed without objection my bill, the Medicare Identity Theft Prevention Act, which requires Medicare to take steps that private companies and other government agencies have already taken to protect the identities of seniors by removing the display of Social Security numbers on Medicare cards. Unfortunately, this important step to protect America’s seniors has not been taken. To see my questioning of the Director of Medicare Program Integrity at the CMS, please click here.
06.09.2010	Today, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke testified to our House Budget Committee regarding his views on the state of our economy. One of the measures that we discussed was H.R. 5297, the Small Business Lending Fund bill. I also raised the alarming fact, according to a New York Times article today, that “The Federal Reserve, six months into a compensation review of the country’s 28 largest financial companies, has found that many of the bonus and incentive programs that economists say contributed to the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression remain in place.” I voted against the bank bailouts. To see this questioning, please click here.
06.09.2010	Today, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke testified to our House Budget Committee regarding his views on the state of our economy. One of the measures that we discussed was H.R. 5297, the Small Business Lending Fund bill. I also raised the alarming fact, according to a New York Times article today, that “The Federal Reserve, six months into a compensation review of the country’s 28 largest financial companies, has found that many of the bonus and incentive programs that economists say contributed to the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression remain in place.” I voted against the bank bailouts. To see this questioning, please click here.
05.28.2010	An important part of budget discipline is ensuring we are spending our precious tax dollars as effectively and efficiently as possible. This means careful scrutiny of not only our spending programs, but also tax provisions to ensure we get the most “bang-for-the-buck. As a small first step, I authored a study of expiring tax expenditures (“tax spending”) to ensure they are still necessary and are functioning as Congress intended. This study was included in legislation that recently passed the House of Representatives. You can read more about this initiative by clicking here.
05.17.2010	The Austin American-Statesman recently posted a letter to the Editor I wrote in response to an editorial about the judicial nomination process and alarming fact that one in eight federal trial courts, which consider 99 percent of cases never heard by the Supreme Court, are vacant—six in Texas. To read my letter to the editor, please click here.
03.31.2010	As I discussed with students from across Central Texas at the downtown Austin campus of ACC (which was long the home of my old high school), the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act invests in our future through a historic commitment to students. The need is great with the number of those receiving financial aid today because of skyrocketing costs having grown by 34% at UT alone in less than a decade. While this investment won't solve all financial challenges, it is a major step forward. Texas students will receive almost $2.5 billion more this decade. To hear my remarks at ACC, please click here.
03.24.2010	Today, on the House floor, I spoke in favor of the Small Business and Infrastructure Jobs Tax Act, which includes provisions to spur investment in local rebuilding projects and to help our small businesses grow, fueling our Central Texas economy. Specifically, the bill includes a measure that I authored to crack down on foreign corporations using tax havens to dodge American taxes. I have been an outspoken opponent of offshore tax abuse. In addition to my bill, Fairness in International Taxation, on which this measure is based, I also introduced the Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act (STOP Act), comprehensive legislation to curb abuse of offshore tax shelters that cost taxpayers nearly $100 billion a year. The STOP Act was incorporated in part into the HIRE Act, which was recently signed into law. To hear my remarks, please click here.
03.24.2010	Today, on the House floor, I spoke in favor of the Small Business and Infrastructure Jobs Tax Act, which includes provisions to spur investment in local rebuilding projects and to help our small businesses grow, fueling our Central Texas economy. Specifically, the bill includes a measure that I authored to crack down on foreign corporations using tax havens to dodge American taxes. I have been an outspoken opponent of offshore tax abuse. In addition to my bill, Fairness in International Taxation, on which this measure is based, I also introduced the Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act (STOP Act), comprehensive legislation to curb abuse of offshore tax shelters that cost taxpayers nearly $100 billion a year. The STOP Act was incorporated in part into the HIRE Act, which was recently signed into law. To hear my remarks, please click here.
03.24.2010	Today, on the House floor, I spoke in favor of the Small Business and Infrastructure Jobs Tax Act, which includes provisions to spur investment in local rebuilding projects and to help our small businesses grow, fueling our Central Texas economy. Specifically, the bill includes a measure that I authored to crack down on foreign corporations using tax havens to dodge American taxes. I have been an outspoken opponent of offshore tax abuse. In addition to my bill, Fairness in International Taxation, on which this measure is based, I also introduced the Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act (STOP Act), comprehensive legislation to curb abuse of offshore tax shelters that cost taxpayers nearly $100 billion a year. The STOP Act was incorporated in part into the HIRE Act, which was recently signed into law. To hear my remarks, please click here.
03.22.2010	Everyone has their own personal story or that of a friend or family member that underscores the cruelty of not already having greater health insurance coverage at an affordable cost. With this historic reform, that I rose to speak in favor of, every insured American gets valuable consumer protections, and every uninsured American can become insured. 32 million American citizens gain protection from health care bankruptcy. This bill restrains soaring insurance premiums, reduces federal deficits, and strengthens Medicare for our seniors. Together, we must keep working to better meet the healthcare needs of Central Texas families. You can view my speech by clicking here.
03.04.2010	Today, the House of Representatives considered legislation intended to create jobs. In these difficult economic times, we should encourage the growth of American jobs, and it is also important that we get the most for every tax expenditure. But, as I noted in a House floor speech today, this provision does too little to create jobs and costs too much. I am very concerned that this credit will end up simply rewarding select companies for doing what they would have done anyway, and provide no help to their struggling competitors that are doing all they can simply to avoid laying off employees. Our economic recovery measures should be as effective and efficient as possible, and I do not believe this tax credit meets this test. To see my full remarks, please click here. To see a visual aid showing who benefited the most from "worker" assistance legislation, please click here.
03.04.2010	Today, the House of Representatives considered legislation intended to create jobs. In these difficult economic times, we should encourage the growth of American jobs, and it is also important that we get the most for every tax expenditure. But, as I noted in a House floor speech today, this provision does too little to create jobs and costs too much. I am very concerned that this credit will end up simply rewarding select companies for doing what they would have done anyway, and provide no help to their struggling competitors that are doing all they can simply to avoid laying off employees. Our economic recovery measures should be as effective and efficient as possible, and I do not believe this tax credit meets this test. To see my full remarks, please click here. To see a visual aid showing who benefited the most from "worker" assistance legislation, please click here.
03.03.2010	Today, I introduced a resolution strongly condemning the terror attack on IRS employees, recognizing Vernon Hunter, who was killed in the attack, and saluting the service of those first responders and employees who kept this event from becoming an even larger tragedy.During my speech, I discussed the Facebook page opened in tribute to the attacker and the comments on the web and elsewhere that characterized his violence "heroic." Let us be clear: There is nothing noble about this terror. Any expression to the contrary deserves our condemnation. Like the larger-scale tragedy in Oklahoma City, this was a cowardly act of domestic terrorism.We must turn the volume down on hate. In our country there is room for wide political discourse and vigorous disagreement. Our democracy thrives on it. But there is no room for violence or the dangerous incitement to violence. Change will come through ballot boxes, not bullets. Let us speak with a strong, unequivocal voice renouncing this attack. We reject the path of hate; and we reject the call to violence.To see a video of Congressman Doggett's remarks on the floor on the need to reject the path of hate and the call to violence, please click here. To see a video of Congressman Doggett's opening remarks, please click here.
03.03.2010	Today, I introduced a resolution strongly condemning the terror attack on IRS employees, recognizing Vernon Hunter, who was killed in the attack, and saluting the service of those first responders and employees who kept this event from becoming an even larger tragedy.During my speech, I discussed the Facebook page opened in tribute to the attacker and the comments on the web and elsewhere that characterized his violence "heroic." Let us be clear: There is nothing noble about this terror. Any expression to the contrary deserves our condemnation. Like the larger-scale tragedy in Oklahoma City, this was a cowardly act of domestic terrorism.We must turn the volume down on hate. In our country there is room for wide political discourse and vigorous disagreement. Our democracy thrives on it. But there is no room for violence or the dangerous incitement to violence. Change will come through ballot boxes, not bullets. Let us speak with a strong, unequivocal voice renouncing this attack. We reject the path of hate; and we reject the call to violence.To see a video of Congressman Doggett's remarks on the floor on the need to reject the path of hate and the call to violence, please click here. To see a video of Congressman Doggett's opening remarks, please click here.
02.24.2010	During a House Budget Hearing today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett recognized the life of Vernon Hunter, who was killed last Thursday in the suicide attack on IRS employees in Austin. Before beginning his questioning of U.S. Treasury Secretary Geithner, Doggett observed, "Certainly the professionalism of the IRS employees there, the help of a good Samaritan and our first responders were vital in minimizing the loss of life [in Austin]. Some of the responses to that attack have been nothing short of appalling. The terror caused by a suicide attack on this public building certainly didn't involve any heroism by the attacker. Because terror knows no discrimination, it is, as you know from meeting with his widow, particularly tragic that Vern Hunter, who provided 48 years of public service, almost 30 at the IRS, and two tours of service with the U.S. Army in Vietnam, was killed." To see Congressman Doggett's comments and Secretary Geithner's response, please click here.
02.24.2010	During a House Budget Hearing today, Congressman Lloyd Doggett recognized the life of Vernon Hunter, who was killed last Thursday in the suicide attack on IRS employees in Austin. Before beginning his questioning of U.S. Treasury Secretary Geithner, Doggett observed, "Certainly the professionalism of the IRS employees there, the help of a good Samaritan and our first responders were vital in minimizing the loss of life [in Austin]. Some of the responses to that attack have been nothing short of appalling. The terror caused by a suicide attack on this public building certainly didn't involve any heroism by the attacker. Because terror knows no discrimination, it is, as you know from meeting with his widow, particularly tragic that Vern Hunter, who provided 48 years of public service, almost 30 at the IRS, and two tours of service with the U.S. Army in Vietnam, was killed." To see Congressman Doggett's comments and Secretary Geithner's response, please click here.
01.21.2010	At a recent Budget Committee hearing on curbing the federal deficit, I questioned John Podesta, President of the Center for American Progress and Robert Greenstein, Executive Director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, about the importance of reviewing tax expenditures as well as direct expenditures. It is not enough to control direct spending programs, we must also control less transparent spending through the Tax Code. When we look at a lake level down in Central Texas, we consider not only the water that is flowing out, but also the water that is flowing in. To see my full remarks, please click here.
01.18.2010	Every American knows about the speed limit. We proposed a Wall Street bankers tax for those exceeding the greed limit. In advance of President Obama's announcement of a fee on the nation's biggest banks, I announced a separate initiative that applies a 50-percent tax on Wall Street bank bonuses in excess of $50,000 paid by TARP-recipient firms: The Wall Street Bonus Tax Act. This measure would not apply to local community banks, since they did not cause the financial crisis. To see my full remarks, please click here.
12.10.2009	On the floor of the House of Representatives, I expressed my strong support for the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, as envisioned by former U.T. Law Professor Elizabeth Warren. Today, we have the opportunity to create a new squad of financial cops who will work to protect those living on Main Street from the greed we've seen from Wall Street. Congress finally has the chance to stand up not for the banks they said were ‘too big to fail,' but for America's working families, who are far too important to fail, and that is exactly what I urged my colleagues to do. To see my full remarks, please click here.
12.10.2009	On the floor of the House of Representatives, I expressed my strong support for the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, as envisioned by former U.T. Law Professor Elizabeth Warren. Today, we have the opportunity to create a new squad of financial cops who will work to protect those living on Main Street from the greed we've seen from Wall Street. Congress finally has the chance to stand up not for the banks they said were ‘too big to fail,' but for America's working families, who are far too important to fail, and that is exactly what I urged my colleagues to do. To see my full remarks, please click here.
12.09.2009	On the floor of the House of Representatives, I voiced my strong belief that before Congress ask working families to pay more in taxes, we must question why Congress has done so little to crack down on special interests getting special treatment, and to prevent billions of dollars in corporate tax avoidance. Furthermore, I called on my colleagues to further scrutinize all tax expenditures, even the most popular, at least as closely as Congress looks at direct spending measures before it writes the check. Next year, America deserves a little more tax justice and a more level playing field for small businesses that cannot take advantage of all the dodges available to their multinational competitors. To see my remarks, please click here.
12.09.2009	On the floor of the House of Representatives, I voiced my strong belief that before Congress ask working families to pay more in taxes, we must question why Congress has done so little to crack down on special interests getting special treatment, and to prevent billions of dollars in corporate tax avoidance. Furthermore, I called on my colleagues to further scrutinize all tax expenditures, even the most popular, at least as closely as Congress looks at direct spending measures before it writes the check. Next year, America deserves a little more tax justice and a more level playing field for small businesses that cannot take advantage of all the dodges available to their multinational competitors. To see my remarks, please click here.
12.03.2009	Onion Creek Flood Control To allow the City of Austin to be reimbursed for spending local funds above and beyond what is required for local governments in order to relocate families out of the Onion Creek flood zone. San Marcos Storm Water Abatement Project To ensure that pollutants and sediment are removed and prevented from flowing into the San Marcos River. San Marcos River Bank Stabilization To stabilize the eroding San Marcos River bank and provide new entry and exit points that can be used for recreational purposes by swimmers and other visitors to the San Marcos River. Redevelopment of Gills Branch Tributary Redevelopment of the Gills Branch tributary of the Colorado River in the City of Bastrop, including planning, design, and construction of drainage improvements. Surface Water Treatment Plant Planning, design, and construction of a surface water treatment plant in the City of Bastrop to serve the community's growing water needs. Simsboro Aquifer Water Source Feasibility Study of the Simsboro Aquifer to assess the feasibility of using the aquifer as a new water source for Bastrop residents.
11.20.2009	Today on the House Floor, I spoke in strong support of the Medicare Physician Repayment Reform Act-a bill that is about more than the reasonable desire of physicians for reimbursement rates that cover their actual costs and fairly compensate their work; it is about access to quality health care and strengthening seniors' ability to choose the doctor best for them. Today is one time that the ‘just say no' party ought to say ‘yes' to this good policy, which is supported by the Texas Medical Association and medical associations across the country. To hear my full remarks, please click here.
11.20.2009	Today on the House Floor, I spoke in strong support of the Medicare Physician Repayment Reform Act-a bill that is about more than the reasonable desire of physicians for reimbursement rates that cover their actual costs and fairly compensate their work; it is about access to quality health care and strengthening seniors' ability to choose the doctor best for them. Today is one time that the ‘just say no' party ought to say ‘yes' to this good policy, which is supported by the Texas Medical Association and medical associations across the country. To hear my full remarks, please click here.
11.02.2009	I sounded the horn at Austin's Race for the Cure-and what an inspiring gathering it was. Each person who took part, each dollar raised, each step taken represents our collective response to the scourge of breast cancer. Since my wife Libby and I co-chaired this race nine years ago, the event has almost quadrupled in size and moved to this year's new location so that even more could participate. I was also pleased that my office ran this year as "Team Doggett." With our many small steps, we can make great strides. We're walking so that one day together we can finally defeat breast cancer-one step, one mile, one dollar, one team at a time.
10.14.2009	Today during a House Budget Committee hearing, I questioned defense expert Stephen Daggett regarding the cost to American taxpayers of the military operations in Afghanistan. Of course, as I noted, the real cost is in blood and the sacrifices of our service members and their families. To see a video of my remarks, click here.
09.16.2009	With families struggling in this difficult economy, it's more important than ever that we work hard to expand educational opportunities for Central Texas students. I spoke in support of the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act-the single largest investment in college aid in American history, at no cost to taxpayers. This bill corrects both the budget deficit and the "opportunity deficit" - when students cannot reach their God-given potential because of financial barriers. By eliminating the unnecessary middleman role of private financial institutions, eliminating the red tape, and lending directly to students, the federal government will have more money for our students and more resources left over to reduce the national debt. Investing in our students is an investment in America's future. To see a video of my floor remarks, click here.
09.16.2009	With families struggling in this difficult economy, it's more important than ever that we work hard to expand educational opportunities for Central Texas students. I spoke in support of the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act-the single largest investment in college aid in American history, at no cost to taxpayers. This bill corrects both the budget deficit and the "opportunity deficit" - when students cannot reach their God-given potential because of financial barriers. By eliminating the unnecessary middleman role of private financial institutions, eliminating the red tape, and lending directly to students, the federal government will have more money for our students and more resources left over to reduce the national debt. Investing in our students is an investment in America's future. To see a video of my floor remarks, click here.
07.23.2009	On the House floor, I urged my colleagues to support the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act. This bill is an important step to restore the kind of fiscal discipline abandoned in 2002. If we have any hope to invest in the vital priorities that are critical to our economic future, including health care, education, and clean energy policies, we must make these tough choices and begin bringing down our crippling deficit. A vote for fiscal security is a vote for national security, and the quickest way back to American economic prosperity. To see a video of my floor statement, please click here.
07.23.2009	On the House floor, I urged my colleagues to support the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act. This bill is an important step to restore the kind of fiscal discipline abandoned in 2002. If we have any hope to invest in the vital priorities that are critical to our economic future, including health care, education, and clean energy policies, we must make these tough choices and begin bringing down our crippling deficit. A vote for fiscal security is a vote for national security, and the quickest way back to American economic prosperity. To see a video of my floor statement, please click here.
06.25.2009	Addressing our nation's education, health care, and law enforcement needs is vitally important to our economy, to keeping America competitive in the 21st Century, and to keeping our citizens safe. Congress and the Administration should work together to ensure a more fiscally responsible pay-as-you-go government. To hear my discussion about prioritizing expenses and fiscal responsibility with Office of Management and Budget Director Peter Orzag, click here.
06.09.2009	On June 8, the House passed my Wounded Veteran Job Security Act to ensure no wounded veteran ever has to make the decision between getting well and getting paid. The bill amends existing law to establish the right of veterans who receive treatment for illness, injuries, and disabilities incurred in, or aggravated by, uniformed service to the United States to be retained by their employers. This bill is important to our commitment to our nation's veterans because battlefield injuries often don't end on the battlefield, and neither should our commitment to wounded warriors. The legislation is supported by many organizations, including the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Fleet Reserve Association, and Disabled American Veterans. Click here for video of my remarks on the House Floor about the Wounded Veteran Job Security Act.
06.03.2009	As a member of the Budget Committee, I questioned Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke on its emergency lending powers and expressed my concerns that the Fed is lending large amounts of public money, mostly through this power, with little transparency or accountability.I understand that while independence and secrecy may be important to the Fed's normal operations, this use of expansive emergency powers relying on a vague statutory provision - not used in about seven decades - is not normal. To many observers, the Fed has sprung into action through the back door as a way to avoid another request to Congress for public funds through the front door. I will continue to press the Federal Reserve for safeguards for the taxpayer, and I will continue to insist on shining the bright light of transparency on this process. Click here for a video clip of my questions for Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke.
05.21.2009	The House Committee on Veterans' Affairs has approved the Wounded Veteran Job Security Act. This bill changes existing employment law to ensure that veterans are able to keep their jobs when they seek medical treatment from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Congressman Doggett introduced the bill in response to concerns from veterans in his district that were in danger of losing their jobs because treatment for wounds suffered on active duty have exceeded the maximum number of absences allowed to all employees by the employer.
05.20.2009	President Obama recently recognized the leadership of Congressman Lloyd Doggett for his work to close tax loopholes and end the use of tax havens. To view a video of the President's remarks click here.In response to the President's remarks, Congressman Doggett said "Tax haven abuse ships both American jobs and tax dollars overseas. With White House leadership, we can finally win approval of our legislation to shut down offshore tax cheats. Restoring tax fairness means working Americans and small businesses won't have to cover for well-heeled tax dodgers. I am pleased that President Obama is making this a priority." Congressman Doggett has introduced HR 1265, the Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act, to curb efforts to evade taxes by hiding money in offshore tax havens. HR 1265 was previously endorsed by Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner in testimony before the House Ways and Means Committee. Click here to view a video of Congressman Doggett's exchange with Secretary Geithner.
04.20.2009	As a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, I questioned U.S Treasury officials and tax law experts about banking secrecy practices that allow the very wealthy to conceal more than $1.5 trillion in offshore tax havens. These tax havens cost ordinary taxpayers up to $50 billion a year in lost revenue, roughly half of the total estimated tax gap caused by corporate and individual overseas tax evasion. It strikes at the fundamental fairness of the tax code for the very wealthy to dodge taxes being paid by every firefighter, police officer, and small business owner in Central Texas. You can watch my discussion of these issues online by clicking here.
04.20.2009	As part of President Obama’s economic recovery legislation, I authored provisions which provide a $14 billion tax cut designed to help those seeking higher education with a tax credit for tuition and instructional materials. 346,000 Texas families, mostly the working poor, who previously received no tuition tax credit will now qualify. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (H.R.1) creates the American Opportunity Tax Credit with a maximum of $2,500 rather than the current maximum of $1,800 -- thereby making college more affordable for millions of low- and moderate-income students. This tax credit is refundable up to $1000, expanding tax relief to nearly 4 million low-income students who had not had any access to higher education tax credits in the past. And for the first time, textbook expenses can be deducted from a student’s tax bill. Click here for my address to Congress about these tuition tax credits.
04.20.2009	As a service to constituents, I have assembled this Guide to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. You can view the guide by clicking here This guide is a beginning point to assist individuals, businesses, community organizations, and local governments in finding resources made available to them by the economic recovery bill. Please keep in mind that while Congress appropriated funding, there are no earmarks in the bill, so individual lawmakers do not have the ability to set aside money for specific projects. Decisions regarding approval of funding and disbursements are up to the State of Texas or federal agencies. I will continue to work with the state and federal agencies to ensure funding for projects that are tested, vetted, and worthy.
04.09.2009	Onion Creek Flood Control and Ecosystem Restoration Lower Colorado River Authority PO Box 220 Austin, TX 78767Amount Requested: $10 millionThis area continues to experience frequent flooding, and this project will help prevent future costly repairs and clean-ups. This request echoes President Obama's request in his budget this year for $10 million to provide the long-overdue support necessary to conclude the relocation of families out of this dangerous area. Buda Police Department Technology and Equipment City of Buda PO Box 1218 Buda, TX 78610Amount Requested: $50,000 This funding will allow the new Buda Police Department to purchase necessary communication, traffic, and law enforcement technology and equipment. These investments will enable the Department to more efficiently and effectively serve Buda's growing population. Austin Travis County Integral Care (ATCIC) Health Information Technology Austin Travis County Integral Care 1430 Collier St Austin, Texas 78704Amount Requested: $250,000 These funds will allow ATCIC to upgrade its electronic health record technology and bring the system in line with emerging federal standards. These technology upgrades will improve the quality of services, and thereby improve the treatment and health of the thousands in Central Texas, who receive services from ATCIC. ALERRT (Advanced Law Enforcement Rapid Response Training) Texas State University 601 University Drive San Marcos, TX 78666Amount Requested: $2 million ALERRT offers a well-respected, proven program to train our National Guard troops by improving their response in active shooter situations. Officers that responded to the November 2009 Fort Hood shooting had been trained by ALERRT. SafePlace Outreach and Service Provider Program SafePlace P. O. Box 19454 Austin, Texas, 78760Amount Requested: $400,000 These funds will support Austin-based SafePlace's outreach efforts to educate persons with disabilities about their health and personal safety. SafePlace will also train service providers to supplement and reinforce these important efforts. Austin Urban Rail Alternatives Analysis City of Austin PO Box 1088 Austin, TX 78767Amount Requested: $500,000 The analysis provided by this funding will help determine the best way to improve transit mobility in the City's core and between its employment and activity centers. St. Edwards University Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) EquipmentSt. Edward's University 3001 South Congress Avenue Austin, TX 78704Amount Requested: $1.1 million St. Edwards University will use these funds to purchase laboratory equipment to enhance research and student learning in chemistry, biology, bioinformatics, mathematics, physics, and computer science. Center for Hetero-Functional Materials Texas State University 601 University Drive San Marcos, TX 78666Amount Requested: $2 millionAs conventional semiconductor manufacturing technology matures, new materials to create single-chip-devices are needed for a wide range of applications, including national security. The Center will combine federal funds with state funds to acquire additional research scientists, equipment, infrastructure improvements, technicians, and technical staff in the physics, chemistry, engineering and biology departments. In addition to defense uses, the Center's research offers potential health, energy, and environmental benefits. City of Smithville Police Department Technology and Equipment Smithville Police Department 105 NW Fourth Street Smithville, TX 78957Amount Requested: $50,000 This funding will enable the Smithville Police Department to better ensure community security by upgrading department patrol, communication, and information-sharing technology. The improvements will better protect Smithville officers and residents while enhancing law enforcement efficiency. San Marcos Storm Water Abatement Project City of San Marcos 630 East Hopkins San Marcos, TX 78666Amount Requested: $1.25 millionThe spring-fed San Marcos River offers one of rarest aquatic ecosystems found in the United States, but it is in danger of contamination by storm water drains that dump water from city streets directly into the river. This project will provide water quality enhancement for storm water runoff, improving the water drainage system by replacing the aging infrastructure that allows untreated runoff to make its way to the river. Hays Health, Wellness, and Domestic Violence Center Hays County 110 E. MLK Dr. San Marcos, TX 78666Amount Requested: $500,000 The funds will support the planning, design, and construction of a one-stop center at the Village Main in San Marcos of a center to provide medical, counseling and other services to domestic violence victims. Regional Tactical Operations Command Center City of San Marcos 630 East Hopkins San Marcos, TX 78666Amount Requested: $500,000 These funds will be used to establish a Regional Tactical Operations Command Center, a mobile operations center capable of responding to critical, in-progress tactical situation in Hays, Caldwell, Bastrop and Blanco Counties. During such tactical operations, the center will serve as a place for tactical and strategic planning, intelligence gathering, monitoring of crisis negotiations, mapping, and tactical communications. Texas State University Grosvenor Center Texas State University 601 University Drive San Marcos, TX 78666Amount Requested: $500,000This funding, in coordination with the National Geographic Society, will support an innovative, technology-based, professional development series for teachers. The program has research and educational components, giving participants understanding of watershed issues and tools to help solve watershed problems. University Math and Science Center Huston-Tillotson University 900 Chicon Street Austin, TX 78747Amount Requested: $500,000 These funds will help develop the Math and Science Center at Huston-Tillotson University, a historically black institution. The program helps reverse the decline in scientists and mathematicians by focusing on matriculating undergraduates in these disciplines and supporting after school education programs for middle and high school students to help them pursue college training in these fields. San Marcos Alternative Transit ProjectCity of San Marcos 630 East Hopkins San Marcos, TX 78666Amount Requested: $500,000 Funds will allow the City of San Marcos to conduct an alternatives analysis as part of City's efforts to serve downtown and Texas State University with the development of a Transportation Oriented District for mass transit, commuter rail and associated residential and commercial facilities. Hays-Travis Trail Conservation Hill Country Conservancy PO Box 163125 Austin, TX 78716Amount Requested: $750,000 Existing trails in the Austin area are often filled to capacity by neighbors seeking exercise and an opportunity to share the beauty of the Texas Hill Country. This project will create five miles of cycling and pedestrian trails in public lands in Hays and Travis Counties, providing new transportation options, attracting tourism, and encouraging opportunities for area small businesses. Center for Entrepreneurial Action Texas State University 601 University Drive San Marcos, TX 78666Amount Requested: $300,000 This funding advances economic development by helping start-up companies and small businesses with assistance and training directed to regional entrepreneurs and inventors. Luling Police Department Technology and Equipment City of Luling Police Department 1800 E. Pierce St. Luling, TX 78648Amount Requested: $50,000 This funding will enable the Luling Police Department to enhance community security with improved patrol and dispatch equipment. With these tools, the Department will be better able to coordinate with nearby law enforcement agencies to serve the Luling community. San Marcos Aquatic Education Center Texas State University 601 University Drive San Marcos, TX 78666Amount Requested: $500,000 Funding will support the design, planning, and construction of an Aquatic Education Center in San Marcos. The Center will preserve and educate the community members about a unique natural and cultural resources in the United States, Spring Lake, located on the campus of Texas State University.
11.07.2005	Remarks by Congressman Lloyd Doggett Kika De La Garza Border Station Pharr, TX Today we honor a person whose contributions have helped shape the legacy of not only the Rio Grande Valley, but also our great state and nation. Kika De La Garza requires no introduction, but deserves much praise. Born right here in the Valley, Kika is a homegrown success, self-made man and inspirational role model for our children. From his humble beginnings shining shoes, Kika rose to making laws in the State House and later the U.S. Congress. But as far as Kika traveled and powerful as he became, he never stopped treating all of his constituents as if each was his most important. In my first term in Congress, I had the good fortune to serve with him as a colleague. Sometimes I called him Kika but more often Mr. Chairman for he had risen through the ranks to become the Chairman of the Agriculture Committee - the first Hispanic Chairman since 1917 to Chair a standing committee in the U.S. House of Representatives. No other Chairman has ever done so much to advance Agriculture and promote the small farmer as Chairman De La Garza. Kika was so instrumental in the world of Agriculture he earned the title "Dean of Agriculture" from his Senate counterparts. He has also been called Ambassador de la Garza, so it is fitting that the first thing Texans returning to Texas or foreign visitors will see will remind them this is Kika territory. Naming this border station in honor of Congressman De La Garza is a fitting tribute for the man who so ably served as an ambassador for American agriculture. Speaking several languages, Kika was known to greet foreign dignitaries who visited his office in their own tongue. He maintained close relationships with many world leaders and agricultural ministers. Just like his efforts to build the bridge we are at now, he built bridges to communities across the border and world. One of Congress' leading experts on U.S.-Mexican relations, he worked to improve relations and trade between the two countries throughout his congressional career. In 1966, he became the first congressman from the Texas-Mexico border area to serve on the Mexico-United States Interparliamentary Group, which promotes dialogue between legislators from the two countries. He served as chairman of the U.S. House of Representatives' delegation to that group for several years. In recognition of his outstanding work, Mexico's President José López Portillo awarded him the Order of the Aztec Eagle -- the highest honor Mexico can bestow on a non-citizen. In Washington it was well known that Kika was a giant in the world of Agriculture but those of us here know he was also a vigorous advocate on behalf of his Valley constituents. Throughout his tenure in Congress, Congressman De La Garza never forgot the people he represented. Kika also helped found the Congressional Hispanic Caucus which is now a powerful force in National politics that advocates on behalf of all Hispanic Americans. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus works every day to make sure that young students -- like those at Kika De La Garza Elementary school in La Joya -- have every opportunity available to them in life. This is neither the first nor last monument to Kika’s service. Research Institute in Oklahoma, Subtropical Agriculture Research Center in Weslaco, Elementary in La Joya, NRCS USDA Plant Material Center in Kingsville, Building in Mission, Street in Mission. I also want to commend not just Kika but his wife of many years, Lucille, and long time district director Sol Marroquin. Lucille has clearly been his partner since his days in the Legislature, Congress, and beyond. In fact, when Kika was first running for the State legislature Lucille came to volunteer for his campaign. She proved so politically astute she was soon named campaign manager. Being the clever guy that Kika is, he figured out he needed her for every campaign. Soon thereafter his courting began and we all know that it lead to an incredibly successful marriage and career. And Sol was always a wise sage with his finger on the pulse of the community for Kika when he was in Washington. Kika knows, as do I, the challenges one faces in Congress are many, and the support of an understanding wife and able staff is crucial to success. Kika and Lucille have devoted their lives together to enhance the quality of life for all citizens of the Valley. Beginning with their three children, all born in Mission, and seven grandchildren, the De La Garzas have set a standard of excellence in their personal and political lives. Kika is an example to all of us of a true gentleman and public servant who brought honor to the Congress through the civility, respect, and commitment to doing what is right. His lifetime dedication to public service has been a gift to our community. Today also provides an opportunity to recognize all those who work to enforce our laws. Your task is difficult and your dedication to our Country and community is to be commended. To honor your sacrifice and service this Administration and Congress must give you the resources you require to secure our borders. Armed amateurs are never a substitute for trained professionals like you. Those of us who live or work in border communities understand the importance of your work and just how strained your resources are. Our local police and sheriffs are dedicated public servants and very capable law enforcement agents, but being part- time border agents is not their job, as Sheriff Lupe Trevino has made clear. We understand you need the personnel and technology to succeed, and we need the Administration to provide it. Not one to go quietly into the night and known for saying they should take the word “retired” off the end of his name, Kika is still giving his opponents fits as the Valley’s most seasoned precinct chair. Harry Truman once said, "the most important job I ever had was that of precinct captain.” I am not sure Kika would agree with the former President but surely he understands the sentiment as Chair of Precinct 62 in McAllen. Kika, after all these years you still are changing the world around you. Congratulations on this honor today, it is well deserved and thank you for making us all better for knowing you. ###
