04.08.2019	Thornberry vote against H.R.1 WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted today against H.R. 1, the House Democrats’ campaign finance and elections reform bill. “House Democrats try to frame this bill as a way to empower American voters; however, hidden in the text are outrageous regulations and more federal bureaucracy,” Thornberry said. “This bill limits free speech, weakens election security, and funds federal campaigns with taxpayer dollars. Above all, it attempts to pull the wool over the public’s eyes.” Provisions in the bill: Creates a 6:1 government match for “small” donor contributions up to $200, meaning for every $200, the federal government will match $1,200. Almost $4.3 million is allowed per candidate, this program could cost billions of taxpayer dollars. Increases the election system’s vulnerability to fraud by creating a federally mandated approach to voter registration and voter practices that would force states to comply. Limits our freedom of speech by imposing standards that disadvantage groups who wish to advocate for any legislative issue. This bill increases burdensome reports required to file with the Federal Election Commission (FEC) and the length of mandatory disclaimers in messages. Impedes states’ ability to determine their registration and voting practices, as protected by the Constitution and violates separation of powers by Congress mandating ethics standards for the Supreme Court. Disregards state voter identification laws by allowing sworn statements to be used in place of identification and allowing for signature verification, which can be submitted through a photo if the voter registers online. Requires states to count all of the votes cast on a provisional ballot for federal elections in which the voter was eligible to vote notwithstanding the precinct or polling place at which the ballot was cast. ###
02.27.2019	WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) and U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) released the following statements after the "Red River Gradient Boundary Survey Act," legislation requiring the necessary gradient boundary survey of the 116-mile stretch of the Red River between Texas and Oklahoma, passed the House as a part of the "Natural Resources Management Act." This bill will now go to the President's desk for signature. “The fundamental right to own property must be protected. This bill takes another crucial step in giving property owners the assurance they deserve to know once and for all where public lands end and private lands begin. The pieces are now in place to see that property owners are protected," Thornberry said. "I am grateful for all of the work that has been done on this issue for the past several years. Senator Cornyn has been an important advocate for private property rights and instrumental in getting this done.” "With the passage of this bill, we’re one step closer to delivering certainty for Texas families who live and own land along the Red River that the federal government has no rightful claim to their property,” said Sen. Cornyn. “I’m grateful to Rep. Thornberry and my colleagues in the House for supporting this bill.” Currently, the BLM has the authority to survey the contested area using BLM surveyors without any input from the states. This legislation requires the BLM to use independent third-party surveyors chosen in consultation with the states and the Tribes. BLM can then only implement the completed survey or portions of the survey that have the written approval of the states and the Tribes. Texas, Oklahoma, and the affected Tribes would have full veto authority to protect private property rights and ensure an accurate survey. To read more click here. History of the Red River Survey Legislation Issue: In 2013, the BLM held public meetings that indicated there is an estimated 90,000 acres of land along the 116-mile stretch of the Red River that may be considered public domain, which immediately created concern that the federal government was claiming to own land to which private individuals had deeds and on which they had paid taxes for generations. 113th Congress (2013-2014) Introduction: On June 26, 2014, Congressman Thornberry introduced H.R. 4979 and Senator Cornyn introduced S. 2537, the “Red River Private Property Protection Act.” Committee Action: H.R. 4979 – The House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Public Lands held a legislative hearing on H.R. 4979 on July 29, 2014. On December 22, 2014, the Committee amended the bill and reported it to the full House. Appropriation Language Signed into Law: Language included in FY2015 Consolidated Appropriations Bill, H.R. 83, directed BLM to defer land use planning until proper surveys completed. H.R. 83 was signed into law on December 16, 2014. 114th Congress (2015-2016) Introduction: On April 30, 2015, Congressman Thornberry introduced H.R. 2130 and Senator Cornyn introduced S. 1153, the “Red River Private Property Protection Act.” House Passage: H.R. 2130 passed the House on December 9, 2015. Introduction: On December 15, 2016, Congressman Thornberry introduced a modified bill as H.R. 6479, the “Red River Gradient Boundary Survey Act.” 115th Congress (2017-2018) Introduction: On January 10, 2017, Congressman Thornberry introduced H.R. 428 and Senator Cornyn introduced S.90, the “Red River Gradient Boundary Survey Act.” House Passage: H.R. 428 passed the House on February 14, 2017. Committee Action: S. 90 – Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources held legislative hearing on July 26, 2017, and reported bill to Senate on November 29, 2018. Survey Funding Signed into Law: $1 million allocated to conduct the Red River survey included in H.R. 1625, the Consolidated Appropriations Act for FY2018, which was signed into law on March 23, 2018. 116th Congress (2019) Introduction: On January 8, 2019, Congressman Thornberry introduced H.R. 346 and Senator Cornyn introduced S.41, the “Red River Gradient Boundary Survey Act.” Appropriation Language Signed into Law: Language included in FY2019 Consolidated Appropriations Act, H.J.Res. 31, which was signed into law on February 15, 2019, directs the BLM to contract with independent, third-party surveyors chosen by the states and the Tribes. Signed Into Law: “Red River Gradient Boundary Survey Act” included in S. 47, the lands package that passed the Senate on February 12, 2019, and passed the House on February 26, 2019, and is now being sent to the President for signature.
02.14.2019	Thornberry on spending bill WASHINGTON-U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted today in support of the Fiscal Year 19 Appropriations package. This bill passed by a vote of 300 to 128 and will now go to the president's desk for signature. "I agree that this bill is not great, but it does improve border security, and it includes several provisions that are important to the people of our area. It is better than another shutdown or another continuing resolution. “Each of the past five Administrations – Republican and Democrat – have sent military personnel and resources to our southern border. It should be clear to everyone that Congress has not provided adequate resources to control who and what crosses our border for many years. “I appreciate the President's determination to do so, and I denounce the stonewalling of the Democratic leadership in Congress, which I believe is based more on politics than the national interests. “At the same time, I encourage the President not to divert significant Department of Defense funding for border security. Doing so would have detrimental consequences for our troops as military infrastructure was one of the accounts most deprived during the Obama-era defense cuts. And it would undercut one of the most significant accomplishments of the last two years – beginning to repair and rebuild our military. I hope that the President will pursue other options." What's in the bill: Immigration and National Security: Addresses the humanitarian and security issues at the border by including $1.375 billion for a physical barrier and technology, Increases the number of immigration judge teams from 395 to 534 to help reduce the immigration case backlog, Includes funding for federal law enforcement to combat terrorists, espionage, drug traffickers, gangs, and violent criminals, Combats the financing of terrorism and terrorist groups and strengthens the development and enforcement of sanctions against Iran, North Korea, Russia, and Cuba, and Provides over $9 billion for international security assistance programs. Red River Survey: Includes provisions to direct the Bureau of Land Management to survey the Red River independent, third-party surveyors who are licensed and qualified to conduct official gradient boundary surveys and who are selected jointly and operate under the direction of the Texas General Land Office and the Oklahoma Commissioners of the Land Office, in consultation with each affected federally recognized Indian tribe. Economy: Encourages economic development and job creation in rural communities by providing $3.7 billion for rural development programs, Boosts growth and development of small businesses by allowing the opportunity to use the Small Business Administration loan programs, and Provides funding to implement the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, so that Americans can continue to keep more of the money they earn. Health: Advances drug treatment and recovery initiatives, Increases funding on medical product safety, including funding to continue to fight the opioid crisis, and Provides $1.05 billion for food safety and inspection programs at the Department of Agriculture. Infrastructure: Ensures that rural areas have the same access to basic utilities by investing in rural broadband expansion, rural electric and telecommunications loans, and loan subsidies for clean drinking water and waste disposal systems. ###
02.05.2019	Thornberry's SOTU Reaction WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement after President Trump's State of the Union (SOTU) address: “I share the President’s hopes that members of both parties can work together in order to get things done for the country. We can make a positive difference on border security and the broken immigration system, on the high cost of health care, and on other problems facing our country. “It is essential that Congress and the Administration continue to rebuild and strengthen our military. Years of neglect cannot be repaired in one or two years.We have more work to do." ###
01.25.2019	Thornberry on opening the government WASHINGTON -U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement after an agreement was made to open the government: “It is time now to compromise and negotiate full funding for our government with dedicated funds for border security. Democratic leaders have unfortunately chosen to play games rather than make a real effort at compromise to bridge the gap and resolve the issue. “Those who say they are for border security but are not willing to spend a dime on physical barriers prove they are more interested in political posturing than in our country’s security and well-being. Our country deserves good leadership and sufficient national security." ###
01.19.2019	Thornberry on President's compromise proposal WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement on the President's compromise proposal: "I appreciate the President's compromise proposal to break the gridlock currently in Washington. Democrat Leadership in Congress should end their stonewalling and work toward reaching an agreement that funds the government, improves border security, and begins to address a number of other issues affecting our broken immigration system. "This shutdown has gone on for too long, and too many people are suffering to continue feet-dragging. Our country deserves better." ###
01.18.2019	Thornberry on death of Sergeant Cameron A. Meddock WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement after news of the loss of Sergeant Cameron A. Meddock: “We recently received the sad news that Sergeant Cameron A. Meddock of Amarillo, Texas, died after injuries sustained by small arms fire in Afghanistan on Monday, January 13. Sergeant Meddock was an exceptional and highly-decorated Army Ranger whose death we mourn and whose service we honor. Our deepest sympathies go out to his family and loved ones.” ###
01.08.2019	Thornberry introduces bill to repeal death tax WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) introduced his first bill of the 116th Congress. H.R. 222, the “Death Tax Repeal Act,” will completely and permanently repeal the federal estate, gift, and generation-skipping taxes. Congressman Thornberry has consistently introduced the “Death Tax Repeal Act” throughout his time in Congress. “Tax reform made the death tax less burdensome, but it should be totally eliminated.Death should never be a taxable event. All Americans should be able to work hard, build, and save knowing that they can pass on what they have earned to their children and grandchildren,”Thornberry said.“Americans are required to pay taxes on their savings and incomes while they are alive. They should not have to do so again at death, nor should their children and grandchildren have to bear these taxes.” Defining the death tax: Also known as the inheritance tax or estate tax, the death tax requires families to turn over portions of an inheritance to the government. Small business owners, farmers, and ranchers are often particularly vulnerable to this tax, making it more difficult for future generations to build upon their family’s hard work. ###
01.08.2019	Thornberry on border WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement on the state of our border security: "A basic responsibility of any country's government is to control who and what comes across its borders. Doing so requires physical barriers, such as a wall or fence, as well as technology and people. I support fully funding all three components of border security. "It should be funded with money designated for that purpose, not with money already allocated for the men and women of America's military. "The current standoff on government funding can and should be solved quickly. All that is required is for everyone to put politics aside and work to solve the problem. So far, the Democratic Leadership has been unwilling to do that." ###
12.21.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Jordan Hunter December 21, 2018 (202) 225-3706 Thornberry on temporary funding bill WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement after the House passed a stopgap spending bill that contains $5.7 billion for border construction and almost $7.8 billion in disaster relief aid. “I voted to support a bill that keeps the government open, improves border security, and provides disaster relief aid. The House passed this bill by 217 to 185. The budget process is dysfunctional, but this bill provides a path forward while funding border security and disaster relief, two things the country needs. The Senate should pass it.” ###
12.20.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT:Jordan Hunter December 20, 2018 (202) 225-3706 House passes tax bill before the end of the year WASHINGTON- The U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 88, the “Retirement, Savings, and Other Tax Relief Act.” This bill passed the House by a vote of XXX to XXX. “It is important that we continue to work on legislation that brings relief to hardworking Americans. Last year, we took a step in reforming our tax code by passing tax reform. Earlier this year, the House passed tax reform 2.0. Now, we are taking a third step to continue to help our economy thrive,” Thornberry said. “With our progress on tax reform, we have seen a lot of growth in our economy, Americans keeping more of the money they earn, and jobs being created.” Highlights: Includes special tax relief benefits forindividuals and businesses affected by recent natural disasters; Helps businesses provide retirement plans for their workers and helps families to start saving earlier; Makes key technical corrections to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act; Further delays several Obamacare taxes, including the medical device tax and health insurer tax; Makes the railroad track maintenance credit permanent; and Updates the IRS and makes taxpayer service the focus of the agency. ###
12.20.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT:Jordan Hunter December 20, 2018 (202) 225-3706 Thornberry on Mattis retirement WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement after Secretary Mattis announced his retirement: "In January 2017, Congress took an extraordinary action by passing a law that allowed James N. Mattis to serve as Secretary of Defense. The only other time it has been done was for General George C. Marshall. Speaking in support of the legislation on the House Floor I said, 'I know of no one more respected, more admired in the field of national security today than General Mattis.' His service as Secretary over the last two years have only added to the luster of his name. "Americans and freedom-loving people around the world have rightfully trusted his steady hand and sound judgmentleadingthe United States Department of Defense. He inspired and motivated the men and women serving in our military. His personal integrity and forthright manner have been a modelforpublic servants, whether military or civilian. "I am incredibly grateful to him for being willing to serve, for fulfilling his duties with such extraordinary commitment to American national security, and for the close working relationship he fostered with the Congress." ###
12.13.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT:Jordan Hunter December 12, 2018 (202) 225-3706 House sends Farm Bill 2018 to President’s desk Thornberry Amendments Included WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted today in support of H.R. 2, the "Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018." This legislation governs our nation’s federal farm and food policy and is known as the Farm Bill. The bill will now go to the President’s desk for signature. "The Farm Bill provides our hardworking agriculture producers with essential tools and the safety net they need to grow the food and fiber our country needs and relies upon," Thornberry said. “Agriculture is very important to the economy of our area and to the country. This bill will help our farmers and ranchers compete with producers all around the world.” Thornberry authored an amendment that is included in the final bill to establish “Cattle and Carcass Grading Correlation and Training Centers” to help ensure that federal beef graders are interpreting and applying the USDA standards in the same way so that cattle and carcasses across the country are graded uniformly. Thornberry also said, "The accuracy of grading cattle is dependent on the grader’s knowledge of animal composition, making the process subjective. It is important to ensure that producers are receiving a fair price and that consumers are paying a fair price for the quality of beef." The Farm Bill authorizes more than $400 million a year for U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) broadband infrastructure loans and grants to connect the hardest to reach rural communities to the global economy.This bill also includes a rural broadband amendment developed by Representative Thornberry that allows the USDA to finance “middle-mile” infrastructure projects, which are necessary to connect rural areas to the backbone of the Internet. "Our country has an ever-growing reliance on technology, and some of our rural areas have been left behind. The Farm Bill also includes expanding broadband access into rural areas to keep them on the same competitive level as the rest of our country,"added Thornberry. The largest portion of the Farm Bill goes to nutrition programs that assist those who are truly in need while providing critical training and opportunities to gain employment and/or better paying jobs.The bill also includes important conservation measures, trade support, and rural development initiatives that support critical rural infrastructure such as public water systems. For more information about the H.R. 2, the"Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018” click here. ###
12.01.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT:Jordan Hunter December 1, 2018 (202) 225-3706 Thornberry on the passing of former President George H.W. Bush WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement on the passing of Former President George H.W. Bush: “Former President George H.W. Bush served our country as a Naval aviator in World War II, Congressman, Ambassador to China, UN Ambassador, CIA Director, Vice President, and as the President of the United States. He truly lived a life of service, and I am grateful for his commitment to our country. Although we mourn his passing, we draw inspiration from his example of faith, strength, and dignity. He was a good and decent man.Our prayers are with his family and friends.” ###
11.30.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT:Jordan Hunter November 30, 2018 (202) 225-3706 Mac Thornberry to be Ranking Member WASHINGTON-This morning,U.S. Representative Mac Thornberry (R - Clarendon) was chosen as the top Republican on the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) for the 116th Congress. The recommendation of the House Republican Steering Committee was ratified by aunanimous vote of all House Republicans. Thornberry has served as Chairman of the Committee for the last four years, but with Democrats winning the majority in the House of Representatives, he will serve as the Committee's Ranking Member beginning in January 2019. "Congress has a responsibility to see that our troops have the best training, equipment, and support our nation can provide," said Thornberry. "I look forward to continuing to work with incoming Chairman Adam Smith and with Senate Armed Services Chairman Jim Inhofe and Ranking Member Jack Reed for our troops and for American national security." ###
10.02.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT:Jordan Hunter October 2, 2018 (202) 225-3706 Tax Reform 2.0 WASHINGTON- The U.S. House of Representatives passed three bills last week as a part of “Tax Reform 2.0:” H.R. 6760 – “Protecting Family and Small Business Tax Cuts Act of 2018,” “H.R. 6757 – “Family Savings Act of 2018,” and H.R. 6756 – “American Innovation Act of 2018.” These three bills build upon the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” that was signed into law in December. “These three bills continue to take steps forward for our economy and our country. Over the past year, we have seen jobs created, growth in our economy, and hardworking Americans keep more of the money they earn,” Thornberry said. “It is now up to the Senate to continue this work.” How will “Tax Reform 2.0” help individuals and their families? Permanently extends tax reform provisions that currently expire in 2025, including: Lower individual tax rates and larger standard deduction Higher child tax credit, Doubled estate tax exemption, and Higher alternative minimum tax threshold. Allows individuals to deduct their medical expenses if they exceeded 7.5 (instead of 10 percent) percent of their adjusted gross income through 2020. Creates a new Universal Savings Account (USA) to offer a fully flexible savings tool that families can use at any time. Gives flexibility to also use education savings to pay for apprenticeship fees to learn a trade, cover the cost of homeschooling, and help pay off student debt. Allows families to access their retirement accounts on a penalty-free basis to use as they see fit when welcoming a new child into the family, whether by birth or adoption. And allows families to replenish those retirement accounts in the future. How will “Tax Reform 2.0” help small business? Makes the 20 percent deduction for pass-through business income permanent. Allows new businesses to write off more of their initial start-up cost. Allows start-ups to expand by bringing in new investors without triggering limits on their access to tax benefits like the R&D credit for activities conducted in their early years. Helps local businesses provide retirement plans to their employees. Thornberry also said, “We have seen a lot of positive outcomes from the ‘Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,’ and I am hopeful that we will continue to see a healthier economy, more jobs, and Americans living a higher quality of life. ###
09.28.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT:Jordan Hunter September 28, 2018 (202) 225-3706 House passed final version of opioid package Thornberry authored SALTS provisions included WASHINGTON- The House passed the final version of H.R. 6, “SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act" by a vote of 393-8.This bill combats illicit and synthetic drugs crossing the borders, encourages the development of new non-addictive painkillers, improves prescription drug monitoring, and continues to fight the opioid crisis in our country. This bill also includes provisions authored by Congressman Thornberry that mirrors the "Synthetic Abuse and Labeling of Toxic Substances (SALTS) Act," which he introduced again earlier this year. The SALTS provisions update the Controlled Substance Act (CSA) to specify factors to be considered in determining whether a controlled substance was intended for human consumption. Currently, synthetic drug producers, manufacturers, and sellers can easily skirt regulations by simply adding a “not for human consumption” label on their product. Law enforcement and health officials are able to prosecute the sale of similar drugs and substances, but the law does not cover substances with that label.These provisions close that loophole. “Opioids and synthetic drugs are a growing problem in our country, a problem that cannot be ignored,” said Thornberry. “Pain management is leading to life-threatening addictions. This legislation helps law enforcement and health officials keep up with the changing formulas and this growing crisis.” Thornberry has held roundtables with local law enforcement, educators, and public health and medical officials in our area to discuss the problem and possible federal action. His provisions were a result of those meetings. Thornberry also said, “Our country is facing an epidemic, one that affects us at home. I have spoken with local leaders about increasing awareness of these synthetic drugs, which really are just poisons. A big part of the problem is that young people and parents are not aware of their serious side effects.These drugs invoke dangerous behavior and cause irreparable damage to the health of those who ingest them.” ###
09.26.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Jordan Hunter September 26, 2018 (202) 225-3706 Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2019 WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted today in support of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2019,” which passed the House by a vote of 361-61. The bill also included Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education appropriations. “Today we voted to give our men and women in uniform the resources they need to defend our country and to deliver those resources on time for the first time in a decade,” said Thornberry. “Those nine years of partisan politics, stopgap spending measures, and kicking the can down the road have eroded our strength and encouraged our enemies. We have no duty that is more important than keeping faith with our troops.” This bill provides a total of $674.4 billion for the Department of Defense. This funding level is consistent with the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (NDAA), which was signed into law on August 13, 2018. Thornberry also said, “It is also important that the federal government provides programs the funding they need on time for Americans.” Defense Appropriations: Continues to rebuild our military by boosting base funding, ensuring our armed services have the resources they need around the world, and provides funds for equipment procurement; Increases funding for readiness programs to make sure our warfighters are prepared for the missions we ask them to do; Updates our military for the future of warfare; Improves end strength by providing sufficient funds for our military personnel and pay; Includes funding for the Defense Health Program, which cares for our troops, military families, and retirees; and Makes steps toward reforming the Pentagon, to ensure taxpayer dollars are well spent. District highlights: Sheppard Air Force Base: The bill appropriates funding for an increase in end strength of the Air Force and a 2.6% pay raise consistent with the FY19 NDAA. It provides funding to address the readiness crisis including; increased flight hours, equipment upgrades, and depot maintenance. It also provides funding for the care of our troops, military families, and retirees. Bell: Close to $2.4 billion is appropriated for Bell’s V-22 Osprey and helicopter programs, including the procurement of 13 new Ospreys and 25 new H-1 helicopters. The bill also includes appropriations for the Departments of Labor, Education, and Health and Human Services. That portion is $1 billion above fiscal year 2018 for medical research, education, and job training. These appropriations include the continuing fight against the opioid crisis, Impact Aid, and continues to prohibit federal funds being used for abortion. ###
09.19.2018	WASHINGTON- U.S. Representative Mac Thornberry (R - Clarendon) released the following statement after the legislation sponsored by him, U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), and U.S. Senator Ted Cruz’ (R-TX) H.R. 5772 to rename the federal building and courthouse in Amarillo the “J. Marvin Jones Federal Building and Mary Lou Robinson United States Courthouse” was signed by the President on September 18, 2018: “JudgeRobinsonis a legal pioneer who is universally respected and admired. She has always set high standards for herself and others. Our legal system has benefitted from her hard work,”said Rep. Thornberry. “I am proud to have the names of these two outstanding public servants on our federal building and courthouse in Amarillo, TX.” This is the first federal courthouse named after a woman within a five-state area. Thornberry also said, “Attaching Judge Robinson’s name to the federal courthouse in Amarillo is meant to honor her and her remarkable record of service, but it will also encourage and inspire others to follow her example.” Judge Mary Lou Robinson has been a valued member of the Amarillo community for nearly 70 years. After graduating from the University of Texas School of Law, she moved to Amarillo to work in a private practice until she was appointed judge of the County Court in Potter County. From there, she was elected judge of the 108thDistrict Court in Amarillo from 1961-1972. In 1973, she was appointed justice of the Seventh Court of Appeals in Amarillo, making her the first female appellate judge in Texas.She was appointed Chief Justice of that court in 1977 and continued to serve as Chief Justice until her appointment by President Jimmy Carter to the federal bench. Judge Robinson’s name would join that of J. Marvin Jones. Mr. Jones was born in Cooke County in 1882 and served our country in World War I. He continued to serve our country as a Member of Congress from 1917-1940. Following his role in Congress, he became a judge of the United States Court of Claims in 1945, serving as Chief Judge from 1947-1964. In 1976, he was appointed as senior judge and remained active until his death in Amarillo.
09.13.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT:Jordan Hunter September 13, 2018 (202) 225-3706 Thornberry votes in favor of H.R. 5895 Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 2019 WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted today in support of H.R. 5895, the “Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 2019,” which includes three of the twelve appropriations bills for fiscal year 2019. H.R. 5895 passed the House by a vote of 377 to 20. “This appropriations package provides crucial support to our national security and to our veterans. Not only does it get elements of our military and the defense nuclear enterprise the resources they need, but it gives it to them on time so they can make good use of it,” Thornberry said. “Our military and our nation continue to rely on us to get these funding bills to the president.” Highlights: The Energy and Water Appropriations bill provides $44.46 billion for Fiscal Year 2019 (FY19) and provides funding for the Army Corps of Engineers, Department of Energy (DOE), and our nation’s nuclear weapons security programs. Provides $11.1 billion for nuclear weapons activities, which supports operations at Pantex; Includes $24 million for the Material Staging Facility at Pantex, which is the same amount authorized in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA); and Gives the Army Corps of Engineers $7 billion for ports, waterways, and flood protection infrastructure. The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill provides $98.1 billion for FY19 to provide care and support for our veterans and their families. The funding also strengthens oversight and accountability at the Department of Defense (DOD) and Veterans Affairs (VA). Provides $10.3 billion formilitary constructionto house military families, support our troops, and fund Guard and Reserve construction projects. Provides $86.5 billion forveterans affairsto improve VA programs, medical care, processing, constructions, and the new electronic health record system. Thornberry also said, “Our military infrastructure is at a crisis point.Veterans struggle to access services, and leaders from both parties have recognized the need for new investment in our nuclear enterprise. This bill tackles each of these problems. It should be supported, and then we must ensure that we fully fund all elements of our nation’s security.” ###
08.26.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT:Jordan Hunter August 26, 2018 (202) 225-3706 Thornberry on the passing of Senator John McCain WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement on the passing of Senator John McCain: "One of the great honors of my life has been the opportunity to work alongside Chairman McCain on behalf of our military families and American national security. In a variety of roles, he was a hero and a patriot throughout his life. His example will always inspire others who love and serve our country." ###
08.13.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT:Jordan Hunter August 13, 2018 (202) 225-3706 President Trump signs National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 WASHINGTON-President Donald Trump signed the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (NDAA) into law today. This is the fourth NDAA signed into law under U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry’s (R-Clarendon) chairmanship of the House Armed Services Committee and the 58th year that a NDAA has been signed into law. “We have begun to reverse the disastrous cuts of recent years. This year’s NDAA continues to rebuild and repair our military and to prepare for the security challenges to come," Thornberry said. “The President has consistently supported our military. They deserve the best equipment, training, and support our country can provide.” The NDAA authorizes $717 billion in spending for defense needs, including significant increases for readiness recovery, and it provides a 2.6 percent pay raise for our troops, the highest increase in nine years. It also extends special pay and bonuses for servicemembers in high-demand fields. Thornberry also said, “This bill continues to reform the Pentagon to make sure that the tax payers are getting the most for their money. These reforms also help to speed up decision-making, so our warfighters get what they need faster." Key Highlights of the NDAA: Authorizes $17.7 billion to begin to rehabilitate and replace worn our Army equipment, $40.8 billion to begin address the military aviation crisis, $36.3 billion to restore our at sea strength, and $23.5 billion to rebuild military buildings and infrastructure; Funds the growth in endstrength of Army, Navy, Air Force, Naval and Air Reserve, and Air Guard as requested; Increases funding for training in each service; Charges the Chief Management Officer (CMO) with finding efficiencies and reducing 25 percent of the cost of certain Department-wide activities, enhancing accountability; Provides $21.8 billion for equipment maintenance and $3.7 billion for spare parts; Adds funding to improve America's missile defense; Makes key investments in other critical military capabilities to confront aggression and address threats around the world, including threats from Russia, China, North Korea, and Iran; and Places emphasis on policy and programs to advance America's security against emerging threats - Artificial intelligence, space and counter-space capabilities, cyber, influence operations, hypersonics, among others. District Highlights Sheppard Air Force Base:The NDAA authorizes funding for an increase in endstrength of the Air Force and increases funding for flying hours by $17.8 million, which will allow for more time in the air for our pilots. It includes an additional $5 million to help accelerate technology development required to mitigate physiological episodes and $2.8 billion for the procurement of spare airplane parts for the Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force. It also includes language to address the ongoing pilot shortage, which is hampering readiness in every service. In an effort to address the persistent pilot shortage, the bill requires the Air Force to evaluate all pilot staff requirements to maximize pilots’ time in the cockpit. Highest European Deterrence Initiative (EDI) funding ever to help strengthen NATO partnerships. Pantex:The bill provides $11.2 billion in funding for nuclear weapons activities, including the work done at Pantex, which is $176 million more than the Administration’s budget request. All life extension programs, including the W76-1 program currently underway at Pantex and the lower-yield W76-2 warhead program that will soon be initiated, are fully funded. The bill includes $24 million to continue design activities for the Pantex Material Staging Facility, which will dramatically improve operations and security at the plant. To help with aging infrastructure and security needs at Pantex and other facilities across the enterprise, the bill provides an additional $118 million above the budget request. The bill also includes a provision and funding to accelerate two key nuclear modernization programs and their associated warhead programs: the Ground-Based Strategic Deterrent and the Long-Range Standoff cruise missile. Bell:Approximately $2.5 billion is authorized for Bell’s V-22 Osprey, H-1, and other programs, including the procurement of 7 new Ospreys and 25 new H-1 helicopters. Much of the work for those aircraft will be performed in Amarillo.Full funding was again authorized for research and development, including the technology demonstrator, in the Joint Multi-Role Program as part of the Army's Future Vertical Lift. Bell's V-280 Valor is a part of that program. ###
07.26.2018	FY19 National Defense Authorization Act passes the House The final House passage before it gets to the President's desk WASHINGTON-The U.S. House of Representatives passed the conference report of the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) by a vote of 359 to 54. The conference report will now be approved by the Senate and sent to the President for signature. This is the fourth NDAA under U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry's (R-Clarendon) chairmanship of the House Armed Services Committee. “This year's NDAA takes a big step toward rebuilding and repairing our military. We are putting the men and women who put their lives on the line first and making sure they have what they need to get the job done,” Thornberry said. “Our servicemembers sacrifice so much for our freedom; it is only right that they have the best equipment, best training, and the best support our country can provide.” The NDAA authorizes $717 billion in spending for defense needs, including significant increases for readiness recovery, and it fully funds a 2.6 percent pay raise for our troops, the highest increase in nine years. It also extends special pay and bonuses for servicemembers in high-demand fields to combat the high turnover of these jobs. Thornberry also said, “This bill continues to reform the Pentagon to help speed up decision-making and get equipment to our warfighters faster." Key Highlights of the NDAA: Authorizes $17.7 billion to begin to rehabilitate and replace worn our Army equipment, $40.8 billion to begin address the military aviation crisis, $36.3 billion to restore our at sea strength, and $23.5 billion to rebuild military buildings and infrastructure; Funds the growth or our Army, Navy, Air Force, Naval and Air Reserve, and Air Guard; Increases funding for training in each service; Creates a Chief Management Officer (CMO) who will be charged with finding efficiencies and reducing 25 percent of the cost of certain Department-wide activities, enhancing accountability; Provides $21.8 billion for equipment maintenance and $3.7 billion for spare parts; Adds funding to improve America's missile defense; Makes key investments in other critical military capabilities to confront aggression and address threats around the world, including threats from Russia, China, North Korea, and Iran; and Places emphasis on policy and programs to advance America's security against emerging threats - Artificial intelligence, space and counter-space capabilities, cyber, influence operations, hypersonics, among others. District Highlights Sheppard Air Force Base:The NDAA authorizes funding for an increase in end strength of the Air Force and increases funding for flying hours by $17.8 million, which will allow for more time in the air for our pilots. It includes an additional $5 million to help accelerate technology development required to mitigate physiological episodes and $2.8 billion for the procurement of spare airplane parts for the Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force. It also includes language to address the ongoing pilot shortage, which is hampering readiness in every service. In an effort to address the persistent pilot shortage, the bill requires the Air Force to evaluate all pilot staff requirements to maximize pilots’ time in the cockpit. Pantex:The bill provides $11.2 billion in funding for nuclear weapons activities, including the work done at Pantex, which is $176 million more than the Administration’s budget request. All life extension programs, including the W76-1 program currently underway at Pantex and the lower-yield W76-2 warhead program that will soon be initiated, are fully funded. The bill includes $24 million to continue design activities for the Pantex Material Staging Facility, which will dramatically improve operations and security at the plant. To help with aging infrastructure and security needs at Pantex and other facilities across the enterprise, the bill provides an additional $118 million above the budget request. The bill also includes a provision and funding to accelerate two key nuclear modernization programs and their associated warhead programs: the Ground-Based Strategic Deterrent and the Long-Range Standoff cruise missile. Bell:Close to $2.3 billion is authorized for Bell’s V-22 Osprey and helicopter programs, including the procurement of 7 new Ospreys and 25 new H-1 helicopters. Much of the work for those aircraft will be performed in Amarillo. ###
07.25.2018	House passes three bills to boost our healthcare system WASHINGTON-U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted this week in support of three bills that would boost Health Savings Accounts (HSA), allow catastrophic health insurance coverage on the exchanges, and delay and repeal Obamacare taxes that increase the cost of coverage. 1)H.R. 184, the "Protect Medical Innovation Act of 2018," would permanently repeal the 2.3 percent excise tax on the sale of a medical device, such aspacemakers, infusion pumps, and hip implants. To read more click here. 2)H.R. 6199, the "Restoring Access to Medication and Modernizing Health Savings Accounts Act of 2018,” provides relief from the Obamacare tax on over-the-counter medications and adds qualified sports and fitness costs as well as certain other items as qualified medical expenses under a Health Savings Account (HSA). It also takes numerous steps to modernize and increase the flexibility of HSAs. To read more click here. 3)H.R. 6311, the "Increasing Access to Lower Premium Plans and Expanding Health Savings Accounts Act of 2018," further delays the annual fee on health insurance providers, and it allows everyone to purchase catastrophic (copper) plans on health insurance exchanges and combines the risk pool with the rest of the plans in the market. Additionally, it allows individuals enrolled in a High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) and Medicare Part A by reason of age to contribute to an HSA, and it allows all bronze and catastrophic plans to qualify as HSA-eligible, among other changes. To read more click here. "We have to take a better path on health care costs. Since Obamacare was passed, too many people have had to pay too much for too little coverage," Thornberry said. "These bills help move in the right direction."
07.17.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT:Jordan Hunter July 17, 2018 (202) 225-3706 J. Marvin Jones Federal Building and Mary Lou Robinson United States Courthouse WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) sponsored H.R. 5772, to rename the J. Marvin Jones Federal Building and Courthouse in Amarillo, Texas as the “J. Marvin Jones Federal Building and Mary Lou Robinson United States Courthouse.” The House passed H.R. 5772 by voice vote. “Judge Robinson is a legal pioneer who is universally respected and admired. She has always set high standards for herself and others, and our system of justice has benefitted,”said Rep. Thornberry. “Having the name of these two outstanding public servants on our federal building and courthouse will be a perpetual reminder of their high standards and outstanding contributions to our nation.” If enacted, this would be the first federal courthouse named after a woman within a five-state area. Judge Mary Lou Robinson has been a valued member of the Amarillo community for nearly 70 years. After graduating from the University of Texas School of Law, she moved to Amarillo to work in a private practice until she was appointed judge of the County Court in Potter County. From there, she was elected judge of the 108th District Court in Amarillo from 1961-1972. In 1973, she was appointed justice of the Seventh Court of Appeals in Amarillo, making her the first female appellate judge in Texas. She was appointed Chief Justice of that court in 1977 and continued to serve as Chief Justice until her appointment by President Jimmy Carter to the federal bench. Judge Robinson’s name would join that of J. Marvin Jones. Mr. Jones was born in Cooke County in 1882 and served our country in World War I. He continued to serve our country as a Member of Congress from 1917-1940. Following his role in Congress, he became a judge of the United States Court of Claims in 1945, serving as Chief Judge from 1947-1964. In 1976, he was appointed as senior judge and remained active until his death in Amarillo. To read my full statement on the floor click here. ###
06.28.2018	House passes DOD appropriations bill WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted today in support of H.R. 6157, the “Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2019,” which passed the House by vote of 359-49. This bill provides a total of $674.6 billion for the Department of Defense. This funding level is consistent with the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (NDAA), which passed the House on May 24, 2018. “It is very important for Congress to fully authorize and fund our military on time,” said Thornberry. “We need to provide our servicemembers with the best support, equipment, and training possible so they can to do the job we have asked them to do.” District highlights: Sheppard Air Force Base: The bill appropriates funding for an increase in end strength of the Air Force and a 2.6% pay raise consistent with the FY19 NDAA. It provides funding to address the readiness crisis including; increased flight hours, equipment upgrades, and depot maintenance. It also provides funding for the care of our troops, military families, and retirees. Bell: Close to $2.6 billion is appropriated for Bell’s V-22 Osprey and helicopter programs, including the procurement of 13 new Ospreys and 25 new H-1 helicopters. ###
06.27.2018	House fails to pass immigration bills WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement after the House failed to pass both H.R. 4760, the “Securing America’s Future Act of 2018,” and H.R. 6136, the “Border Security and Immigration Reform Act:” “I am disappointed that the House was not able to pass either of the immigration bills. Among other immigration provisions, both bills supported border wall infrastructure, addressed DACA recipients, and provided additional border security personnel. These bills were a much needed step in the right direction. “There are moments that we cannot get everything we want, but we have to move forward and do what is best for the country, without letting politics stand in the way.” Congressman Thornberry voted in support of both immigrations bills. Both bills would: Improve border security by including full funding of a border wall and increasing technology and law enforcement official son the border. Reform our legal immigration system by eliminating the lottery visa program and replacing it with a merit-based system. Family visas would be focused on uniting the nuclear family. Ensure families detained when attempting to enter the country illegally are able to stay together. Allow DACA recipients to apply for a renewable status (3 years under H.R. 4760 and 6-years under H.R. 6136) to pursue existing pathways to green cards and further legal immigration processes. Eligibility Requirements: entry into the U.S. prior to June, 15, 2007; 16 years of age at the time of entry; under 31 years of age on June 15, 2012; enrolled in an educational institute in the U.S. or has acquired a high school diploma/GED; and no serious criminal convictions
06.21.2018	House Passes the 2018 Farm Bill Thornberry Adopted Amendments WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted once again in support of H.R. 2, the "Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018." This legislation governs our nation’s federal farm and food policy and is known as the Farm Bill. In a second attempt, the House passed the Farm Bill by a vote of 213 to 211. "The Farm Bill provides our hardworking agriculture producers with essential tools and safety net they need to grow the food and fiber our country needs and relies upon," Thornberry said. "Our country has an ever-growing reliance on technology, and some of our rural areas have been left behind. The Farm Bill also includes expanding broadband access into rural areas to keep them on the same competitive level as the rest of our country." Thornberry authored an amendment that was adopted on the House floor to establish “Cattle and Carcass Grading Correlation and Training Centers” to help ensure that federal beef graders are interpreting and applying the USDA standards in the same way so that cattle and carcasses across the country are graded uniformly. Thornberry also said, "The accuracy of grading cattle is dependent on the grader’s knowledge of animal composition, making the process subjective. It is important to ensure that producers are receiving a fair price and that consumers are paying a fair price for the quality of beef." The Farm Bill authorizes more than $500 million a year for U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) broadband infrastructure loans and grants to connect the hardest to reach rural communities to the global economy.This builds on the $600 million that was provided in the fiscal year 2018 funding bill for the USDA to conduct a new broadband loan and grant pilot program.Includes two rural broadband amendments developed by Representative Thornberry: Allows the USDA to finance “middle-mile” infrastructure projects, which are necessary to connect rural areas to the backbone of the Internet. Directs the USDA to study potential opportunities to provide technical assistance and predevelopment planning activities to help rural counties and communities assess current and future broadband needs. The largest portion of the Farm Bill goes to nutrition programs that assist those who are truly in need while providing critical training and opportunities to gain employment and/or better paying jobs.The bill also includes important conservation measures, trade support, and rural development initiatives that support critical rural infrastructure such as public water systems. Highlights: Safety Net: Maintains and strengthens the Price Loss Coverage (PLC) and Agriculture Risk Coverage (ARC) programs by allowing the PLC reference prices to adjust when markets improve and by having ARC use actual yields collected by the Risk Management Agency. Dairy: The Margin Protection Program is renamed the Dairy Risk Management (DRM) program, and the first 5 million pounds of milk production on a dairy is made eligible for higher coverage levels at lower premiums. Milk production not covered under DRM is made fully eligible for a comparable crop insurance policy. Disaster Assistance: Livestock disaster programs remain in place with modest adjustments and $100 million is provided toward a pilot program to address destructive and invasive feral swine. Animal Disease: Supports critical animal health infrastructure with $450 million to enhance USDA’s ability to identify, diagnose, and respond to a potential animal disease outbreak through the creation of a new National Animal Disease Preparedness and Response Program and a new U.S.-only vaccine bank with priority for stockpiling Foot-and-Mouth Disease (FMD) vaccine. Conservation: Increases funding for the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) to $3 billion per while incorporating the Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP). Increases Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) acreage to 29 million acres. Nutrition: Maintains and strengthens nutrition programs and provides that work capable adults (ages 18-59) work or participate in work training for 20 hours per week. Exempted populations include seniors, those who are disabled, those caring for children under six, or those who are pregnant. These exempted groups represent nearly 2/3 of all program participants. Trade: Combines the Market Access Program (MAP), the Foreign Market Development (FMD) Program, the Technical Assistance for Specialty Crops (TASC) Program, and the Emerging Markets Program (EMP) into the newly created International Market Development Program. Critical Infrastructure: Gives rural communities increased access to credit to finance critical infrastructure, such as essential community facilities and public water systems. ###
06.18.2018	Thornberry statement on border WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement in light of the events at the border: “Our immigration system is in need of a major overhaul, but there is no excuse for separating children from their parents. We should begin with heightened border security and interior enforcement, not the division of families,” Thornberry said.“The House is currently considering legislation to secure our borders in the most humane way possible and to address the status of DACA recipients currently in our country. We also need to reform our legal immigration system so that decisions are timely, contributing to the health and well-being of country.” For more information contact: jordan.hunter@mail.house.govor call 202-225-3706
06.15.2018	Thornberry and House continue to fight the opioid crisis WASHINGTON- The House passed, H.R. 2851, the "Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act of 2017," which creates a new category in theControlled Substance Act (CSA) for synthetic drugs.This bill includes an amendment authored by Congressman Thornberry that mirrors the "Synthetic Abuse and Labeling of Toxic Substances (SALTS) Act," which he introduced again earlier in the month and in previous sessions of Congress. “Opioids and synthetic drugs are a growing problem in our country and something that is in major need of attention. Pain management is leading to life-threatening addictions,” Thornberry said. “This legislation helps law enforcement and health officials keep up with the changing formulas and this growing crisis.” The SALTS amendment updates the Controlled Substance Act (CSA) to specify factors to be considered in determining whether a controlled substance was intended for human consumption. Currently, synthetic drug producers, manufacturers, and sellers can easily skirt regulations by simply adding a “not for human consumption” label on their product. Law enforcement and health officials are able to prosecute the sale of similar drugs and substances, but the law does not cover substances with that label.This amendment closes that loophole. Thornberry has held roundtables with local law enforcement, educators, and public health and medical officials to discuss the problem in our region and possible federal action. His amendment was a result of those meetings. Thornberry also said, “I have spoken with local leaders about increasing awareness of these synthetic drugs, which really are just poisons. A big part of the problem is that young people and parents are not aware of their serious side effects.These drugs invoke dangerous behavior and cause irreparable damage to the health of those who ingest them.” ###
06.08.2018	Thornberry votes forEnergy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 2019 WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted today in support of H.R. 5895, the “Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 2019,” which includes three of the twelve appropriations bills for the year. H.R. 5895 passed the House by a vote of 235 to 179. “This bill supports our troops and our veterans. It also strengthens the credibility of our nuclear deterrent, which is the foundation of our other defense efforts.We must continue to invest in our national security to make sure that our country has what it needs to protect itself,” Thornberry said. “It is important that we get these funding bills to the President’s desk; our military relies on it.” Highlights: TheEnergy and WaterAppropriations bill provides $44.7 billion for Fiscal Year 2019 (FY19) and provides funding for the Army Corp of Engineers, Department of Energy (DOE), and our nation’s nuclear weapons security programs. In line with the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) with $11.2 billion for weapons activities, which supports operations at Pantex; Includes $24 million for the Material Staging Facility at Pantex; Gives the Army Corps of Engineers $7.28 billion for ports, waterways, and flood protection infrastructure; and Repeals the controversial Obama-era “Waters of the United States” rule. TheMilitary Construction and Veterans AffairsAppropriations bill provides $96.9 billion for FY19 to provide care and support for our veterans and their families. The funding also strengthens oversight and accountability at the Department of Defense (DOD) and Veterans Affairs (VA). Provides $10.3 billion formilitary constructionto house military families, support our troops, and fund Guard and Reserve construction projects. Provides $85.3 billion forveterans affairsto improve VA programs, medical care, processing, constructions, and the new electronic health record system.
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON– This morning, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the fourth National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) under U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry's (R-Clarendon) chairmanship of the House Armed Services Committee by a vote of 351 to 66. "For the 58th year, the House has passed an NDAA, one that puts the men and women in uniform first and is another large step in rebuilding and repairing our long-neglected military," Thornberry said. "Our servicemembers selflessly fight for our freedom every day, and in return, we must ensure that they have the best training, equipment, and support our nation can provide.This bill also continues to reform the Pentagon to help speed up decision-making and get equipment to our warfighters faster." The NDAA authorizes $717 billion in spending for defense needs, including significant increases for readiness recovery, and it fully funds a 2.6 percent pay raise for our troops, the highest increase in 9 years. It also extends special pay and bonuses for servicemembers in high-demand fields to combat the high turnover of these jobs. Other Highlights Authorizes $18.5 billion to begin to rehabilitate and replace worn our Army equipment, $39.4 billion to begin address the military aviation crisis, $36 billion to restore our at sea strength, and $23.3 billion to rebuild military buildings and infrastructure; Funds the growth or our Army, Navy, Air Force, Naval and Air Reserve, and Air Guard; Increases funding for training in each service; Creates a Chief Management Officer (CMO) who will be charged with finding efficiencies and reducing 25 percent of the cost of certain Department-wide activities, enhancing accountability; Provides $21.8 billion for equipment maintenance and $3.7 billion for spare parts; Adds funding to improve America's missile defense; Makes key investments in other critical military capabilities to confront aggression and address threats around the world, including threats from Russia, China, North Korea and Iran; and Places emphasis on policy and programs to advance America's security against emerging threats - Artificial intelligence, space and counter-space capabilities, cyber, influence operations, hypersonics, among others. Local Highlights Sheppard Air Force Base:The NDAA authorizes funding for an increase in end strength of the Air Force and increases funding for flying hours by $24.2 million, which will allow for more time in the air for our pilots. It includes an additional $10.0 million to help accelerate technology development required to mitigate physiological episodes and $2.8 billion for the procurement of spare airplane parts for the Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force. It also includes language to address the ongoing pilot shortage, which is hampering readiness in every service. In an effort to address the persistent pilot shortage, the bill requires the Air Force to evaluate all pilot staff requirements to maximize pilots’ time in the cockpit. Pantex:The bill provides $11.2 billion in funding for nuclear weapons activities, including the work done at Pantex, which is $198 million more than the Administration’s budget request. All life extension programs, including the W76-1 program currently underway at Pantex and the lower-yield W76-2 warhead program that will soon be initiated, are fully funded. The bill includes $24 million to continue design activities for the Pantex Material Staging Facility, which will dramatically improve operations and security at the plant. To help with aging infrastructure and security needs at Pantex and other facilities across the enterprise, the bill provides an additional $150 million above the budget request and requires the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) to report to Congress on how it is implementing the Infrastructure Modernization Initiative that Congress mandated last year. The bill also includes a provision and funding to accelerate two key nuclear modernization programs and their associated warhead programs: the Ground-Based Strategic Deterrent and the Long-Range Standoff cruise missile. Finally, the bill includes a provision to strengthen oversight of the backlog of security clearance investigations at the NNSA that are delaying and impeding the hiring of highly-skilled workers at Pantex and across the enterprise. Bell:Close to $2.3 billion is authorized for Bell’s V-22 Osprey and helicopter programs, including the procurement of 7 new Ospreys and 25 new H-1 helicopters. Much of the work for those aircraft will be performed in Amarillo.
05.22.2018	House passes Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act WASHINGTON– U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted today in support of S. 2155, the “Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act.” The House passed S. 2155 by a vote of 258 to 159, and it will now be sent to the President for signature. “We have been working continuously this Congress to roll back many of the burdensome Obama-era regulations, and this bill is another good step in that direction,” Thornberry said. “Hardworking Americans deserve financial protection and the ability to do their job without jumping through unnecessary bureaucratic hoops. This bill further strengthens our economy and helps grow incomes.” This Bill: Provides much needed regulatory relief to community banks by reducing burdensome and unnecessary reporting requirements intended for large corporate banks; Increases consumer safety by reducing identify fraud; Boosts protection from cyber threats by requiring the Treasury Department to submit a report to Congress on the risks of cyber threats to financial institutions and the U.S. capital markets; Implements protections for individuals who, in good faith, disclose suspected exploitation of a senior citizen to a regulatory or law-enforcement agency; Protects veterans from predatory lending practices by requiring lenders to demonstrate a material benefit to consumers when refinancing a mortgage insured by the Department of Veterans Affairs; and Includes protections for student borrowers by requiring the Treasury Department to establish non-binding best practices for higher education institutions regarding methods to: 1. Teach financial literacy skills 2. Inform and assist students when making financial decisions related to student borrowing.
05.15.2018	Thornberry, Cornyn, Cruz urge USDA Secretary to authorize emergency CRP use for drought and wildfires WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), and U.S. Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) urge USDA Secretary Sonny Perdue to authorize emergency use of CRP lands to aid producers impacted by severe drought and wildfires. Below is the text: "We are writing to respectfully request that you exercise your authority to allow Texas producers to graze Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) enrolled lands after recent wildfires and drought have created severe hardships in the region. As you are aware, several Texas counties are currently in D3 (Extreme Drought) and D4 (Exceptional Drought) according to the U.S. Drought Monitor, and they have been experiencing drought conditions for some time. Additionally, many counties have experienced devastating wildfires that have depleted ground cover for grazing. With the primary nesting season still in effect, emergency haying and grazing is not an option leaving emergency use as the only alternative for many producers. We greatly appreciate your proven support of our nation’s agricultural producers, especially the assistance provided during last year’s wildfires that was critical to recovery. Again, we respectfully ask that you utilize all available authorities and approve emergency use CRP grazing. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter." A copy of the letter can be downloadedhere. ###
05.15.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT:Jordan Hunter May 15, 2018 (202) 225-3706 House Armed Services Committee Passes National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 WASHINGTON- Last week, the House Armed Services Committee passed the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (NDAA), which authorizes spending for military personnel, weapons systems, national security programs, and foreign military operations by avote of 60 to 1. This bill is the fourth yearly authorization reported by the Committee during Chairman Thornberry’s tenure as Chairman. The bill will be scheduled for debate on the House floor. "The military has been neglected for too long. We have started to rebuild, but there is still more work to be done," Thornberry said. "This year, we are continuing to reform the Pentagon to help speed up decision-making and get equipment to our warfighters faster. Our troops are our most valuable asset, and it is important to make sure they have the tools and support they need to be successful." The NDAA authorizes $717 billion in spending for defense needs, including significant increases for readiness recovery, and it fully funds a 2.6 percent pay raise for our troops, the highest increase in 9 years. It also extends special pay and bonuses for servicemembers in high-demand fields to combat the high turnover of these jobs. Chairman Thornberry is also working to make significant bureaucratic reforms. The newly-created Chief Management Officer (CMO) will be charged with finding efficiencies and reducing 25 percent of the cost of certain Department-wide activities, enhancing accountability. Local Highlights Sheppard Air Force Base:The NDAA authorizes funding for an increase in end strength of the Air Force and increases funding for flying hours by $24.2 million which will allow for more time in the air for our pilots. It includes an additional $10.0 million to help accelerate technology development required to mitigate physiological episodes and $2.8 billion for the procurement of spare airplane parts for the Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force. It also includes language to address the ongoing pilot shortage, which is hampering readiness in every service. In an effort to address the persistent pilot shortage, the bill requires the Air Force to evaluate all pilot staff requirements to maximize pilots’ time in the cockpit. Pantex:The bill provides $11.2 billion in funding for nuclear weapons activities, including the work done at Pantex, which is $198 million more than the Administration’s budget request. All life extension programs, including the W76-1 program currently underway at Pantex and the lower-yield W76-2 warhead program that will soon be initiated, are fully funded. The bill includes $24 million to continue design activities for the Pantex Material Staging Facility, which will dramatically improve operations and security at the plant. To help with aging infrastructure and security needs at Pantex and other facilities across the enterprise, the bill provides an additional $150 million above the budget request and requires the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) to report to Congress on how it is implementing the Infrastructure Modernization Initiative that Congress mandated last year. The bill also includes a provision and funding to accelerate two key nuclear modernization programs and their associated warhead programs: the Ground-Based Strategic Deterrent and the Long-Range Standoff cruise missile. Finally, the bill includes a provision to strengthen oversight of the backlog of security clearance investigations at the NNSA that are delaying and impeding the hiring of highly-skilled workers at Pantex and across the enterprise. Bell:Close to $2.3 billion is authorized for Bell’s V-22 Osprey and helicopter programs, including the procurement of 7 new Ospreys and 25 new H-1 helicopters. Much of the work for those aircraft will be performed in Amarillo. Other Highlights Authorizes $18.5 billion to begin to rehabilitate and replace worn our Army equipment, $39.4 billion to begin address the military aviation crisis, $36 billion to restore our at sea strength, and $23.3 billion to rebuild military buildings and infrastructure; Funds the growth or our Army, Navy, Air Force, Naval and Air Reserve, and Air Guard; Increases funding for training in each service; Provides $21.8 billion for equipment maintenance and $3.7 billion for spare parts; Adds funding to improve America's missile defense; and Places emphasis on policy and programs to advance America's security against emerging threats - Artificial intelligence, space and counter-space capabilities, cyber, influence operations, hypersonics, among others. ###
03.22.2018	House Passes Omnibus Spending Package WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Mac Thornbery (R-Clarendon) voted today in support of H.R. 1625, the "Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018." “While I do not agree with everything in the bill, the importance of repairing our planes, ships, and training overrides other concerns,” Thornberry said. “Still defense spending is only about 16% of the total federal budget.” The omnibus spending bill includes funding the military at the level authorized in the National Defense Authorization Act, which was signed by the President in December. Key Highlights Maintains a producer tax benefit under Section 199A and brings parity to farmers that sell directly to co-ops or private businesses; Exempts livestock producers from onerous and unnecessary emissions reporting requirements; Grants livestock haulers an exemption from the Electronic Device Logging mandates until September 30, 2018; Fully funds a gradient boundary survey on the contested 116-mile stretch of the Red River between Oklahoma and Texas; Provides $1.6 billion for border security, including money for fencing and levees at the U.S.-Mexico border; Increases funding to address the opioid epidemic by $3 billion; Includes funds for election security for counter-intelligence efforts against Russian cyberattacks; Invests $21 billion to expand and rebuild America’s aging infrastructure, including rural broadband, community development, and VA medical facilities; Strengthens existing national instant background check system for gun purchases; and Reauthorizes a package of existing school safety programs. Thornberry also said, “Congress’ work does not end when we write a check. In the months ahead, we will ensure that the military uses these funds to begin to rebuild quickly and efficiently. We will pursue reforms to the Department of Defense that preserve and enhance our fighting edge. We will continue to take a hard look at Pentagon bureaucracy as we prioritize rebuilding strength on the front line and cutting fat in the back office.” ###
01.10.2018	Dear Friends, The Second Session of the 115th Congress is underway. The political drama in the media coverage overshadowed some of the substantial accomplishments in 2017. Overall, the House passed 477 bills in 2017, more than during a similar period for the last several presidents. Most of them are still awaiting action in the Senate, but a number of important things were achieved. They include: Tax Bill: Federal incomes taxes were cut for virtually all Americans who pay them. The tax bill will give our economy the boost it needs and will help make America more competitive against foreign competitors. The bill will bring jobs back to Americans and will allow families to keep more of their hard-earned money. For more information click here. Repeal Individual Mandate of Obamacare: Many provisions of Obamacare are controversial, but the most disputed mandate is the requirement that every man, woman, and child in the U.S. must purchase health insurance as defined by the federal government or be punished by the IRS. That individual mandate was repealed, effective in January 2019. For more information click here. Regulations: Congress and the President took good steps in rolling back many of the burdensome Obama-era regulations. That effort continues in Congress and in the agencies, and it touches every one of us in some way. We are already starting to see the benefits of fewer regulations and a freer economy. For more information click here. Defense: President Trump signed into law the National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2018 (NDAA) that starts to rebuild and repair our military. Among other things, the bill strengthens our defenses against missile attacks and provides the largest pay raise for our troops in eight years. For more information click here. Of course, there is much more to be done. I would like to know what issues are most important to you and your family this year. Please fill out the survey below to keep me updated on what matters most to you. Survey As always, I appreciate hearing from you. Sincerely,
12.20.2017	WASHINGTON- The U.S. House of Representatives passed the conference report of H.R. 1, the tax reform bill, by a vote of 224 to 201. The Senate has also passed the conference report that will now be sent to the President for signature. "The bill is a great step forward for our economy and our country. It is time that we let hardworking Americans keep more of the money they earn," Thornberry said. "The bill is not perfect. I am disappointed that the Death Tax is not completely abolished and that the end product is not as simple as I would like or had hoped. But this tax reform bill is our chance to lower taxes, boost the economy, and bring jobs back to America." Highlights: Family making median income of $73,000 will see a tax cut of $2,059 according to House and Senate tax committees; Lowers individual tax rates for Americans to 10, 12, 22, 24, 32, 35, and 37 percent; Nearly doubles the standard deduction and eliminates special interest deductions; Expands and increases the Child Tax Credit and preserves the Child and Dependent Care Credit and the Adoption Tax Credit; Preserves the mortgage interest deduction for existing mortgages and maintains the mortgage interest deduction for new homes up to $750,000; Allows state and local taxes to be deducted up to $10,000, which puts all states on a more even playing field; Retains retirement savings options such as 401(k)s and Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs); Eliminates the Obamacare individual mandate penalty beginning January 1, 2019; Preserves and temporarily expands the medical expense deduction; Doubles the Death Tax exemption; Lowers the corporate tax rate to 21 percent; and Offers a new 20 percent tax deduction to small and family-owned pass-through businesses with joint incomes below $315,000. Thornberry also said, "This tax bill means that families will benefit from a healthier economy, from more jobs, and from a high quality of life created by putting Americans on a more level playing field with our foreign competitors." To read the full bill click here. ###
12.12.2017	WASHINGTON– President Donald Trump signed the National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2018 (NDAA) into law today. This is the third NDAA signed into law under U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry’s (R-Clarendon) chairmanship of the House Armed Services Committee. “Threats around the world are becoming more numerous and more complex while our military budget has been cut,” Thornberry said. “I appreciate President Trump’s support in rebuilding and repairing our military with this year’s NDAA. Our servicemembers protect our freedom and security every day, and for that, we owe them the best that our country can provide - the best equipment, in the best shape, with the best training.” Key Highlights of the NDAA Authorizes the full 2.4% pay raise for our troops, the largest pay increase in eight years; Repairs our ships, planes, and other equipment; Adds $4.4 billion to meet critical missile defense needs, such as the growing threat from North Korea; Makes investments to support our military in confronting aggressions and threats around the world, includingin the Indo-Asia-Pacific Region, the Middle East, Europe, and Africa; Increases the size of Army, Navy, Air Force, Army Guard and Reserve, Naval and Air Reserve, as well as Air Guard; Permanently preserves special survivor indemnity allowance (SSIA) payments to more than 60,000 surviving military spouses; Increases funding for military facilities to restore and maintain infrastructure; Allows the Department of Defense (DOD) to buy commercial products through online, e-commerce sites; Implements new oversight strategies as the DOD undergoes its first audit; and Takes steps in reforming and improving our national security space programs to change the way we fight and win wars in space. District Highlights Bell:The bill authorizes the Marine Corps to enter into a multiyear contract for up to 7 years to purchase V-22s, which can provide needed flexibility and production certainty.Close to $2.9 billion is authorized for Bell’s V-22 Osprey and helicopter programs, including the procurement of 12 new Ospreys and 29 new H-1 helicopters. Much of the work for those aircraft will be performed in Amarillo. Pantex:The bill provides $10.37 billion in funding for nuclear weapons activities including the work done at Pantex, which is $138 million more than the Administration’s budget request. All life extension programs, including the W76-1 program currently underway at Pantex, are fully funded. The bill includes $5.2 million to begin design and construction of the Pantex Material Staging Facility, which will dramatically improve operations and security at the plant. To help with aging infrastructure, the bill establishes the Infrastructure Modernization Initiative with a goal of reducing the nuclear security enterprise’s backlog of deferred maintenance and repair needs by 30 percent by 2025. An additional $150 million is included to help with this effort at Pantex and other facilities across the enterprise. Finally, the bill provides an increase of $28 million for defense nuclear security to ensure Pantex and other facilities maintain the highest level of security. Sheppard Air Force Base:The NDAA authorizes funding for an increase in airmen and programs such as the training missions at Sheppard Air Force Base near Wichita Falls. It also includes language to tighten evaluation process of energy projects close to military installations to help ensure that bases and training ranges are not adversely impacted. ###
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) is a cosponsor of H.R. 38, the "Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2017," which passed the House today by a vote of 231-198. "The Second Amendment to the Constitution establishes a citizen's right to keep and bear arms, yet it is constantly being attacked. The ‘Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2017,’ helps protect those rights," Thornberry said. "Just like we expect one state to respect a driver’s license from another state, we should expect one state to recognize another’s concealed carry permit." The "Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2017" allows law-abiding citizens with a state-issued concealed carry license or permit, or people from states that do not require a permit, to carry a concealed handgun in any other state that allows concealed carry, as long as they follow the laws of the state. H.R. 38 also includes provisions to ensure government agencies are following existing law to properly and accurately report information to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS), which is the FBI system used to conduct background checks for firearm purchases. These provisions penalize federal agencies who fail to report relevant criminal records, encourage states to improve the accuracy of their reporting, and direct federal funding to make sure domestic violence records are accurately reported. Thornberry also said, “The laws on background checks must be followed by everyone – including the government itself.” This bill is supported by the National Rifle Association, Gun owners of America, and the National Shooting Sports Foundation. To read the full bill text click here. ###
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted today in support of H.R.1, the "Tax Cuts and Jobs Act," which passed the House by a vote of 227-205. "It is time to create jobs, grow the economy, and improve everyone’s standard of living. We need to let hard working taxpayers keep more of the money they earn - that is exactly what this bill does," Thornberry said. "This tax reform is our chance to lower taxes, simplify the tax code, and give our economy the boost it needs." Highlights: Lowers individual tax rates for low- and middle-income Americans to 12, 25, and 35 percent and maintains a 39.6 percent rate for high-income Americans; Increases the standard deduction and eliminates special interest deductions; Establishes a new family credit and expands and increases the Child Tax Credit; Preserves the mortgage interest deduction for existing mortgages and maintains the mortgage interest deduction for new homes up to $500,000; Continues to allow for state and local property tax deductions up to $10,000; Limits the maximum tax rate for small and family-owned pass-through businesses to 25 percent; Lowers the corporate tax rate to 20 percent; and Doubles the Death Tax exemption and completely repeals the Death Tax after 7 years. To read the full bill and summary click here. ###
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON-The U.S. House of Representatives passed the conference report of the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) by a vote of 356 to 70. The conference report will now be approved by the Senate and sent to the President for signature. This is the third NDAA under U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry's (R-Clarendon) chairmanship of the House Armed Services Committee. “Over the last several years, we have seen an increase in threats and a decrease in funding for our military. This year's NDAA begins to rebuild our military and to ensure we can defend the American people,” Thornberry said. “It also supports our troops. Our servicemembers volunteer to risk their lives to protect us and our freedom. We owe them the best that our country can provide - the best equipment, in the best shape, with the best training." The bill authorizes the full 2.4% pay raise for our troops. It repairs our ships, planes, and other equipment. And it improves our defense against missiles at a time of growing danger. The NDAA also makes investments to support our military in confronting aggressions and threats around the world, including in the Indo-Asia-Pacific Region, the Middle East, Europe, and Africa. Key Highlights of the NDAA: Increases the size of Army, Navy, Air Force, Army Guard and Reserve, Naval and Air Reserve, as well as Air Guard; Adds $4.4 billion to meet critical missile defense needs, such as the growing threat from North Korea; Permanently preserves special survivor indemnity allowance (SSIA) payments to more than 60,000 surviving military spouses; Increases funding for military facilities to restore and maintain infrastructure; Allows the Department of Defense (DOD) to buy commercial products through online, e-commerce sites; Implements new oversight strategies as the DOD undergoes its first audit; and Takes steps in reforming and improving our national security space programs to change the way we fight and win wars in space. District Highlights Bell:The bill authorizes the Marine Corps to enter into a multiyear contract for up to 7 years to purchase V-22s, which can provide needed flexibility and production certainty.Close to $2.9 billion is authorized for Bell’s V-22 Osprey and helicopter programs, including the procurement of 12 new Ospreys and 29 new H-1 helicopters. Much of the work for those aircraft will be performed in Amarillo. Pantex: The bill provides $10.37 billion in funding for nuclear weapons activities including the work done at Pantex, which is $138 million more than the Administration’s budget request. All life extension programs, including the W76-1 program currently underway at Pantex, are fully funded. The bill includes $5.2 million to begin design and construction of the Pantex Material Staging Facility, which will dramatically improve operations and security at the plant. To help with aging infrastructure, the bill establishes the Infrastructure Modernization Initiative with a goal of reducing the nuclear security enterprise’s backlog of deferred maintenance and repair needs by 30 percent by 2025. An additional $150 million is included to help with this effort at Pantex and other facilities across the enterprise. Finally, the bill provides an increase of $28 million for defense nuclear security to ensure Pantex and other facilities maintain the highest level of security. Sheppard Air Force Base: The NDAA authorizes funding for an increase in airmen and programs such as the training missions at Sheppard Air Force Base near Wichita Falls. It also includes language to tighten evaluation process of energy projects close to military installations to help ensure that bases and training ranges are not adversely impacted.
11.11.2017	Dear Friend, Today, November 11, 2017, is Veterans Day - a day that offers us a chance to show our gratitude to those who have bravely served our country in the military and to honor what they have sacrificed for our freedom and our security. It is also a chance to recognize the families of veterans, who also serve our nation. Our part of Texas is home to many of our country’s heroes. Last month, Robert Earl Lance Jr., a World War II veteran, was laid to rest in Hereford, Texas. In 1941, Robert and three other teenagers from Hereford headed up to Oklahoma City to join the Marines. Robert was assigned to the 2nd 155mm Howitzer Battalion, later known as “The Unknown Battalion.” His battalion played an important role in the Pacific Theater – Guadalcanal, Tulagi, Tarawa, Saipan, Guam, and Iwo Jima. Following the war, Robert returned to Hereford and ran the family farm for the remainder of his life with his wife and children. Another hero from Texas 13 was 1st Lieutenant Jesse Brown White. 1st Lieutenant White served in the Philippines during World War I after enlisting in the U.S. Army in 1917. On February 22, 2017, his military grave marker was found under a birdbath in his daughter’s backyard. It was then cleaned and restored to allow it to be placed next to his civilian headstone. 46 years after he passed away in 1970, White finally received the appropriate military honors in Llano Cemetery, Amarillo, Texas, earlier this year. In addition to serving our country overseas, White was a doctor. After the war, he moved to Amarillo to help rid the Texas Panhandle of tuberculosis. He was a leader in finding the source of the outbreak and took care of Texans who contracted the ailment. 1st Lieutenant White remained in Amarillo practicing medicine for 30 years. Just as our veterans provide an invaluable service to our country, our country owes them something too. We owe them the best equipment, the best training, the best support that our country can provide. On this day, we are also reminded that we must continue to work to prepare our veterans for life after war. We must support their return home and ensure that they have what they need for success. These men and women have put their lives on the line to keep our country safe and they deserve the best in return. Sally and I thank our veterans and our servicemembers, not only today, but every day. Thank you for your bravery, and thank you for your service to our country. Sincerely,
11.11.2017	Dear Friend, Today, November 11, 2017, is Veterans Day - a day that offers us a chance to show our gratitude to those who have bravely served our country in the military and to honor what they have sacrificed for our freedom and our security. It is also a chance to recognize the families of veterans, who also serve our nation. Our part of Texas is home to many of our country’s heroes. Last month, Robert Earl Lance Jr., a World War II veteran, was laid to rest in Hereford, Texas. In 1941, Robert and three other teenagers from Hereford headed up to Oklahoma City to join the Marines. Robert was assigned to the 2nd 155mm Howitzer Battalion, later known as “The Unknown Battalion.” His battalion played an important role in the Pacific Theater – Guadalcanal, Tulagi, Tarawa, Saipan, Guam, and Iwo Jima. Following the war, Robert returned to Hereford and ran the family farm for the remainder of his life with his wife and children. Another hero from Texas 13 was 1st Lieutenant Jesse Brown White. 1st Lieutenant White served in the Philippines during World War I after enlisting in the U.S. Army in 1917. On February 22, 2017, his military grave marker was found under a birdbath in his daughter’s backyard. It was then cleaned and restored to allow it to be placed next to his civilian headstone. 46 years after he passed away in 1970, White finally received the appropriate military honors in Llano Cemetery, Amarillo, Texas, earlier this year. In addition to serving our country overseas, White was a doctor. After the war, he moved to Amarillo to help rid the Texas Panhandle of tuberculosis. He was a leader in finding the source of the outbreak and took care of Texans who contracted the ailment. 1st Lieutenant White remained in Amarillo practicing medicine for 30 years. Just as our veterans provide an invaluable service to our country, our country owes them something too. We owe them the best equipment, the best training, the best support that our country can provide. On this day, we are also reminded that we must continue to work to prepare our veterans for life after war. We must support their return home and ensure that they have what they need for success. These men and women have put their lives on the line to keep our country safe and they deserve the best in return. Sally and I thank our veterans and our servicemembers, not only today, but every day. Thank you for your bravery, and thank you for your service to our country. Sincerely,
11.08.2017	Dear Friends, The House Ways and Means Committee consideration of H.R. 1, the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,” is a significant step towards reforming our broken tax code. This tax plan will help you keep more of the money you earn and will make the tax code fairer and simpler for everyone. I encourage you to look at the details to of the bill. While further adjustments will be made, the Tax Foundation, a nonpartisan organization, ran the numbers and found that the bill would lower tax rates and the cost of capital, which would “lead to 3.9 percent higher GDP over the long term [and] 3.1 percent higher wages.” To see the full study click here: https://taxfoundation.org/tax-cuts-jobs-act-state-impact/ To see the full bill visit: https://waysandmeans.house.gov/taxreform/ Sincerely, Mac
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) commented on the release of H.R. 1, the "Tax Cuts and Jobs Act," introduced today in the House. "This tax reform bill is about promoting a strong economy, simplifying the tax code, creating jobs, and letting hardworking Americans keep more of the money they earn," Thornberry said. "It is time to bring jobs back to America and become more competitive in the world market. The House, Senate, and the Administration have been dedicated to this goal. It is time for tax reform." Highlights: Lowers individual tax rates for low- and middle-income Americans to 0, 12, 25, and 35 percent and maintains a 39.6 percent rate for high-income Americans; Increases the standard deduction and eliminates special interest deductions; Establishes a new family credit and expands and increases the Child Tax Credit; Doubles the Death Tax exemption and completely repeals the Death Tax after 6 years; Lowers the corporate tax rate to 20 percent; and Limits the maximum tax rate for small and family-owned pass-through businesses to 25 percent. Thornberry also said, "82.6 percent of filers in Texas 13 claim the standard deduction - this bill doubles that. Over 19 percent of filers in our district claim the Child Tax Credit - this bill increases that by $600 per child and allows more filers to claim this credit. This bill will mean more money is left in the pockets of Texas taxpayers and will give a boost to our economy." To read a section-by-section summary of H.R. 1 click here. ###
09.27.2017	Dear Friends, To create jobs, grow the economy, and improve everyone’s standard of living, we need to let hard working taxpayers keep more of the money they earn. We also need to simplify the tax code. House and Senate Republicans and the Administration have jointly released a unified framework for tax reform. We have a great opportunity to reform the tax code in a way that lowers taxes and fuels stronger economic growth while simplifying the burdens placed on ordinary taxpayers. Both Congress and the President are committed to this goal. Below is an overview of the tax reform framework. For the full framework and more information click here. I encourage you to email me, send mail, or call my office to give feedback on this initial tax reform framework. As always, I appreciate hearing from you. Sincerely,
09.14.2017	House passesMake America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act, 2018 WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted today in support of H.R. 3354, “Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act, 2018,” which passed the House by vote of 211-198. This Act contains all 12 regular appropriations bills to fund the full government, including the full text of H.R 3219, which passed the House on July 27.H.R. 3219 includes appropriations for defense, energy and water, the legislative branch, and military construction/veterans affairs, as well as funding for tighter border security.This is the first time since 2009 that the House has passed all 12 appropriations bills before the end of the year. “It is important to Americans that we keep our government working for them,” said Thornberry. “This Act will roll back burdensome policies that negatively impact Americans, invest in the security for our families, and reduce unnecessary spending.With the ever growing threats around the world and the increasing potential for our troops to be harmed in "peacetime" incidents, it is imperative that we pass full funding bills and break the pattern of temporary funding that hurts our military.” H.R. 3354: Provides funding to support farmers, food safety programs, and rural development; Includes provisions that prevent regulatory and other harm to industries and small businesses; Increases funding for law enforcement, national security, and cracks down on illegal immigration; Stops the IRS from enforcing Obamacare's individual insurance mandate; Supports new hires within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), including Border Patrol Agents; Includes funding for FEMA prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate all hazards through disaster relief; Cuts funding for the Environmental Protection Agency and prevents burdensome regulations; Pulls back regulations, including theWaters of the U.S. (WOTUS) Rule; Prioritizes security, including the defeat of ISIS and other terrorist group; and Invests in infrastructure, including highway improvement. ###
09.08.2017	H.R. 601, The READ Act (Hurricane Supplemental, Debt Limit, Continuing Appropriations, and Flood Insurance Package) WASHINGTON- Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement after the House passedH.R. 601, The READ Act (Hurricane Supplemental, Debt Limit, Continuing Appropriations,andFlood Insurance Package). "Disaster assistance should be considered on its own – not to advance another agenda. I voted on Wednesday for a clean emergency disaster funding bill for Hurricane Harvey that passed the House with overwhelming support. Those affected by disasters need help from Washington, they do not need more of the same political games." For Congressman Thornberry's full statementclick here. ###
08.02.2017	Dear Friend, After seven months of the 115th Congress, I want to provide a status report on where the major legislative issues stand. While some in the media may be telling a different story, we have seen a lot of progress on many of the issues important to our area and to our country. As an overview, the charts below show how many bills have passed the House and how many bills have been signed into law this year as compared with the same period in prior administrations. As you can tell, this year is well above average. Below are some highlights and issues we have addressed so far, including bills that I have introduced; as well as links to more information. Regulations and Washington Overreach Reform and Overturn: Regulations have been a major focus of the 115th Congress. The House has worked to restructure how the bureaucracy makes regulations and how the courts litigate regulations. We also used the Congressional Review Act (CRA) to successfully overturn 14 harmful, Obama-era regulations. The CRA has only been used once before to overturn a regulation. Status: H.R. 427, the “REINS Act” - House passed Status: H.R. 5, the “Regulatory Accountability Act” - House passed Status: H.R. 21, the “Midnight Rules Relief Act” - House passed Status: H.R. 998, the "SCRUB Act” - House passed Status: 15 separate, harmful, Obama-era regulations - 15 House passed, 14 Signed into Law Waters of the United States (WOTUS): In February, I introduced a bill to clarify in statute what “navigable waters” means and especially what it does not. Placing a good definition in law will help ensure that the courts and future administrations will not revive attempts to regulate every bar ditch and puddle across the country with another misguided WOTUS Rule. Legislation has also been signed into law that allows the Administration to withdraw the WOTUS rule without having to go through the existing processes and restrictions to repeal a rule. Status: H.R. 1261, the “Federal Regulatory Certainty for Water Act” - Introduced in the House Status: H.R. 3219, the “Make America Secure Appropriations Act, 2018” - Signed into Law Wall Street Reform: One of the most burdensome regulatory laws we have worked to reform is the Dodd-Frank Act, which has hurt everyone from small businesses to homebuyers. I cosponsored and the House passed H.R. 10, the “Financial CHOICE Act,” in June. This bill repeals and amends several provisions of Dodd-Frank and aims to create a simpler and more transparent regulatory financial system to create jobs and boost the economy. Status: H.R. 10, the “Financial CHOICE Act” - House passed Healthcare Reform Obamacare: The House passed a bill to repeal and replace the worst parts of Obamacare in May with a process that can avoid a Senate filibuster and pass with a simple majority vote. The House has also passed several additional bills to address other issues with Obamacare and our health care system. The Senate has not yet been able to pass a repeal and replace bill, but I hope they continue to work to lower prices and provide more choices to patients. Obamacare is simply not working as promised. We must continue to work for ways to stop the harmful effects of this law, control costs, and put patients in charge of their health care. Status: Obamacare repeal and replace - House passed Status: 7 other bills to improve healthcare - House passed Private Property Rights BLM Red River: This Congress, I introduced H.R. 428, the “Red River Gradient Boundary Survey Act,” which passed the House in February, and the Senate held a hearing on Senator Cornyn’s identical bill last month. This bill seeks to end questions of disputed land along the Red River to protect private property rights from federal ownership claims. Status: H.R. 428, the “Red River Gradient Boundary Survey Act,” - House passed Immigration and Border Security Immigration Reform: Our immigration laws are in need of a major overhaul, and the House has passed important bills to address this issue. The House has focused on making state and local governments ineligible for certain federal funds if they have “sanctuary” policies in effect. “Kate’s Law,” inspired by Kathryn Steinle will strengthen the criminal penalties for people who attempt to illegally reenter the country after being convicted of certain felonies. Status: H.R. 3003, the “No Sanctuary for Criminals Act of 2017” - House passed Status: H.R. 3004, “Kate’s Law” -House passed Border Patrol Agents: The U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) has struggled to recruit and hire additional agents because of the pre-employment polygraph requirement, and as a result, is understaffed. The House passed legislation to allow the Commissioner of the CBP to waive the polygraph requirement for candidates who have already been vetted and have served as either a law enforcement officer or a member of the Armed Services and have a security clearance. Status: H.R. 2213, the “Anti-Border Corruption Reauthorization Act of 2017” -House passed Human Trafficking Protecting Americans: Human trafficking is a global problem. This is an issue that must not be ignored or underestimated - the safety of our families relies on it. There is no international system in place to combat human trafficking effectively, and we must do better here at home. Congress has made this issue a very high priority. Status: 16 Human Trafficking Bills - House passed Veterans' Affairs Supporting our Veterans: Meeting our commitments to our veterans and their families is one of the most important responsibilities of the federal government. These men and women have put their lives on the line to keep our country safe, and they all deserve our best in return. Status: S. 1094, the "VA Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act" - Signed into Law Status: Senate companion to H.R. 369, the "Eliminating the Sunset Date of the Choice Act" - Signed into Law Status: H.R. 244, the "HIRE Vets Act" - Signed into Law Status: 30 Veterans’ Affairs Bills - House passed National Security Rebuilding Our Military: The House passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018 when I introduced as Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. The bill covers the wide range of programs and activities carried out by the Department of Defense and portions of the Department of Energy. The NDAA also supports Sheppard Air Force Base, Bell Helicopter, and Pantex in our local area. Status: H.R. 2810, the “National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018”- House passed Sanctions on Hostile Regimes: It is our responsibility as the federal government to make sure that Americans are safe. The House has taken several votes to combat global adversaries through stricter economic restrictions. Status: H.R. 1644, “The Korean Interdiction and Modernization of Sanctions Act” - House passed Status: H.R. 1677, the “Caesar Syria Civilian Protection Act” - House passed Status: H.R. 3364, the “Russia, Iran, and North Korea Sanctions Act” - House passed, Senate passed, Signed into Law Supreme Court Neil M. Gorsuch: This year, President Trump nominated Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch, and the Senate confirmed him by a vote of 54 to 45. This confirmation will have a positive impact on the Supreme Court for decades to come. Status: Neil Gorsuch - Senate confirmed Looking Ahead Overhauling Broken Tax Code: The first bill I introduced this Congress was H.R. 198, the “Death Tax Repeal Act,” that will completely and permanently repeal the federal estate, gift, and generation-skipping taxes. Death should never be a taxable event. Small business owners, farmers, and ranchers are especially vulnerable to this tax, making it more difficult for future generations to build upon their family's hard work. President Trump's tax reform proposal and the House Republican “A Better Way” plan both include a repeal of the death tax. As we work with the Administration to fix our broken tax code, I will continue to push for a full repeal of the death tax. Status: H.R. 198, the “Death Tax Repeal Act” - Introduced in the House I invite you to learn more about these issues and others by visiting my website here. Have a question you would like answered? Please contact me by phone, letter, e-mail, or on Facebook. As always, I appreciate hearing from you. Sincerely,
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON-U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement after it was announced that the latest Senate efforts to repeal and replace Obamacare was not successful: “I am extremely disappointed that the Senate has been unable to pass any version of a health care bill. The House passed a bill to repeal and replace the worst parts of Obamacare in May, and the Senate should do the same. Obamacare is simply not working as promised. It will get worse. We must continue to work to stop the harmful effects of this law, control costs, and put patients in charge of their health care.” ###
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted yesterday in support of H.R. 3219, “Make America Secure Appropriations Act, 2018,” which passed the House by vote of 235-192.This Act includes four individual appropriations bills - Defense, Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction/Veterans Affairs, as well as funding for tighter border security. “It is the first responsibility of the federal government to make sure that Americans are safe,” said Thornberry. “This Act is another good step in making sure that our military is supported and prepared, our Capitol police officers are fully funded, our veterans are taken care of, and that our country is secure.” Highlights: National Security –Funds Department of Defense (DOD) and National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) at levels consistent with the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (NDAA), passed by the House on July 14. Energy and Water -Allows the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to withdraw the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule and restricts the application of the Clean Water Act in certain agricultural areas. Legislative Branch- Funds the Capitol police at $422.5 million, $29.2 million above FY 2017. Veterans Affairs- Provides $182.3 billion in funding for the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, $5.3 billion above FY 2017. Border Security –Includes funding, planning, and management for the improvement of our border security. ###
07.19.2017	WASHINGTON - The U.S. House of Representatives passed and Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted for three bills to reform regulations and federal requirements affecting energy production and delivery – H.R. 806, “Ozone Standards Implementation Act of 2017,” H.R. 2910, “Promoting Interagency Coordination for Review of Natural Gas Pipelines Act,” and H.R. 2883, “Promoting Cross-Border Energy Infrastructure Act.” “There is no question that burdensome energy regulations and unnecessary bureaucratic delays drive up costs and waste time for businesses, which ultimately hurts consumers,” Thornberry said. “These three bills are a step in the right direction to pull back some of the misguided regulations and decisions we have seen over the past few years.” H.R. 806, “Ozone Standards Implementation Act of 2017” The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) sets the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for ozone, which can result in additional red tape and control costs for energy and other businesses operating in an area that does not meet EPA’s standard. The EPA set a standard in 2008 but did not release the rules for implementation until March 2015. In October 2015, the EPA released another lower ozone standard at a time when states were still implementing the 2008 standard. This bill provides states and localities more time to implement the 2015 standard and addresses other challenges under the NAAQS program. H.R. 2910, “Promoting Interagency Coordination for Review of Natural Gas Pipelines Act" There are currently no statutory time limits forcing the federal government to provide companies with necessary certificates to build interstate natural gas pipelines within a set amount of time. This bill will set deadlines in law and require concurrent reviews for involved federal agencies to increase the predictability and fairness of the pipeline permitting process. H.R. 2883, “Promoting Cross-Border Energy Infrastructure Act” This bill eliminates the current presidential permit requirements, like those imposed on the Keystone XL project, for pipelines and electricity transmission equipment that cross U.S. international borders. Instead, this bill establishes a “certificate of crossing” to be issued by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for pipeline projects or the Energy Department for electricity transmission projects. The certificate must be issued or denied within 120 days of the completion of an environmental study. ###
07.18.2017	Dear Friends, On Friday, the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018. The vote was 344 to 81. The bill covers the wide range of programs and activities carried out by the Department of Defense and portions of the Department of Energy. This year, the bill focuses on beginning to rebuild our military and reform the Pentagon. Nothing is more important than ensuring that the men and women who serve are fully supported with the best equipment, in the best shape, with the best training that our nation can provide. Even on routine training missions and routine deployments, the men and women who serve are risking their lives for us. The NDAA provides our troops with the full 2.4 percent pay raise, to which they are entitled to under the law – the biggest in eight years. It beefs up missile defense at a time when those threats continue to grow. It increases end strength to provide our services the personnel they need to complete the missions we assign them. It boosts Navy ship and aircraft depot maintenance and readiness while also including additional funds for the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force operations and maintenance. The bill also makes major reforms in acquisition and services contracting. In addition, this bill works to support our military families by ensuring that they get appropriate inpatient care in Medical Treatment facilities located outside the United States, for example. With all that we are able to achieve in this bill, there is still much to do to ensure our military is properly manned, trained, and equipped. I look forward to continuing our work to ensure this bill moves forward with the focus on the men and women in uniform. I am grateful for those who serve and inspire us – the men and women who are counting on us. To learn more about how the NDAA affects Sheppard Air Force Base, Bell Helicopter, and Pantex in our local area click here. Sincerely,
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON - The U.S. House of Representatives passed the third National Defense Authorization Act under U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry's (R-Clarendon) chairmanship of the House Armed Services Committee by a vote of 344 to 81. “For the 56th year in a row, the House has passed a bipartisan bill that prioritizes the men and women in uniform who selflessly volunteer to support and defend our nation,” Thornberry said. This bill takes the necessary steps to begin to rebuild and reform our military, including billions in additional funds to begin to close the dangerous readiness gaps our troops are facing.” Sheppard Air Force Base: The NDAA authorizes funding for an increase in end strength of the Air Force and programs such as the training missions at Sheppard Air Force Base near Wichita Falls. It also includes language to tighten evaluation process of energy projects close to military installations to help ensure that bases and training ranges are not adversely impacted. Pantex: The bill provides $10.4 billion in funding for nuclear weapons activities including the work done at Pantex, which is $184 million more than the Administration’s budget request. All life extension programs, including the W76-1 program currently underway at Pantex, are fully funded. The bill includes $5.2 million to begin design and construction of the Pantex Material Staging Facility, which will dramatically improve operations and security at the plant. To help with aging infrastructure, the bill establishes the Facilities and Infrastructure Recapitalization and Repair Program (FIRRP) with a goal of reducing the nuclear security enterprise’s backlog of deferred maintenance and repair needs by 50 percent within five years. An additional $150 million is included to help with this effort at Pantex and other facilities across the enterprise. Finally, the bill provides an increase of $33 million for defense nuclear security to ensure Pantex and other facilities maintain the highest level of security. Bell: Close to $2.6 billion is authorized for Bell’s V-22 Osprey and helicopter programs, including the procurement of 10 new Ospreys and 27 new H-1 helicopters. Much of the work for those aircraft will be performed in Amarillo. Highlights Military Personnel and Pay: The bill supports the full 2.4 percent pay raise for the military. This is the largest pay raise in 8 years. Military Families: Prohibits the reduction of inpatient care for military Medical Treatment facilities located outside of the United States. The bill also provides resources to help families with relocation and relicensing. Rebuilding Readiness: Makes key investments not provided for in the President’s Budget Request. The NDAA will begin to recover lost readiness and begin rebuilding the force. Maintenance: Increases Navy Ship and Aircraft depot maintenance and afloat readiness, while also including additional funds for the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force operation and maintenance. Facilities: Increases funding to support military facilities. Missile Defense: Increases the authorization of funds to procure additional interceptor missiles, increase investments in the Ground-based Midcourse Defense System, and boost phase missile defense.
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON - The House Armed Services Committee passed the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018, which authorizes spending for military personnel, weapons systems, national security programs, and foreign military operations by a vote of 60 to 1. “The threats our country faces today are more varied and widespread than ever before. While our enemies have been quickly advancing, our military has gotten smaller,” Thornberry said. “Our servicemembers work to protect us every day, and we owe them the best training, the best equipment, and other support our nation can provide.” The bill authorizes $631.5 billion in spending for defense needs, including a $28.5 billion increase for essential readiness recovery above the President’s budget request. The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) also combats global terrorism by fully resourcing and authorizing counterterrorism efforts and U.S. Special Operations Forces, programs, and activities around the world. Local Highlights Sheppard Air Force Base: The NDAA authorizes funding for an increase in end strength of the Air Force and programs such as the training missions at Sheppard Air Force Base near Wichita Falls. It also includes language to tighten evaluation process of energy projects close to military installations to help ensure that bases and training ranges are not adversely impacted. Pantex: The bill provides $10.4 billion in funding for nuclear weapons activities including the work done at Pantex, which is $184 million more than the Administration’s budget request. All life extension programs, including the W76-1 program currently underway at Pantex, are fully funded. The bill includes $5.2 million to begin design and construction of the Pantex Material Staging Facility, which will dramatically improve operations and security at the plant. To help with aging infrastructure, the bill establishes the Facilities and Infrastructure Recapitalization and Repair Program (FIRRP) with a goal of reducing the nuclear security enterprise’s backlog of deferred maintenance and repair needs by 50 percent within five years. An additional $150 million is included to help with this effort at Pantex and other facilities across the enterprise. Finally, the bill provides an increase of $33 million for defense nuclear security to ensure Pantex and other facilities maintain the highest level of security. Bell: Close to $2.6 billion is authorized for Bell’s V-22 Osprey and helicopter programs, including the procurement of 10 new Ospreys and 27 new H-1 helicopters. Much of the work for those aircraft will be performed in Amarillo. Other Highlights Military Personnel and Pay: The bill supports the full 2.4 percent pay raise for the military. Military Families: Prohibits the reduction of inpatient care for military Medical Treatment facilities located outside of the United States. The bill also provides resources to help families with relocation and relicensing. Rebuilding Readiness: Makes key investments not provided for in the President’s Budget Request. The NDAA will begin to recover lost readiness and begin rebuilding the force. Maintenance: Increases Navy Ship and Aircraft depot maintenance and afloat readiness, while also including additional funds for the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force operation and maintenance. Facilities: Increases funding to support military facilities. Missile Defense: Increases the authorization of funds to procure additional interceptor missiles, increase investments in the Ground-based Midcourse Defense System, and boost phase missile defense.
06.27.2017	WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement after Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Pruitt announced that they would be withdrawing from Obama’s Waters of the United States (WOTUS) Rule. “I welcome the news that the EPA will not move forward with the Obama Administration’s Waters of the United States (WOTUS) Rule that is disastrous for rural communities and agricultural producers. Earlier this Congress, I introduced H.R. 1261, the “Federal Regulatory Certainty for Water Act,” to clarify what “navigable waters” means and especially what it does not. Placing a good definition in law will help ensure that the courts and future administrations will not revive attempts to regulate every bar ditch and buffalo wallow across the country.”
06.16.2017	WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement after receiving a response from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) stating that they granted an extension of the emergency grazing on CRP lands for the Texas Panhandle fires. “The decision by the USDA Secretary Sonny Perdue to extend emergency grazing on CRP lands will allow ranchers who were affected by the Panhandle wildfires much needed time to rebuild fencing, replant grass, and provide a safe home for their livestock. I appreciate the Secretary listening to our concerns and providing agriculture producers in the Panhandle with more time to get back on their feet.” Last month, Thornberry sent a letter to the USDA along with Representatives Frank Lucas and Roger Marshall requesting a 90-day extension of the authorized emergency grazing on CRP lands located in Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas. You can read the letter by clicking here. You can read the letter from the USDA by clicking here.
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON- U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted today in support of H.R. 10, the “Financial CHOICE Act,” that passed by a vote of 233-186. “We are losing one community bank or credit union every day under the Dodd-Frank Act,” Thornberry said. “The ‘Financial CHOICE Act’ is about creating jobs and boosting the economy. Dodd-Frank has hurt everyone from small businesses to homebuyers. Replacing its overly burdensome regulations with commonsense solutions will make a real difference in the lives of most Americans.” Thornberry also noted that this bill will create a more transparent regulatory financial system that will allow our community lenders to refocus on providing opportunities for folks in rural communities instead of meeting unnecessary Washington mandates. H.R. 10 will also: Allow community banks to increase bank lending, which will benefit small business owners and agricultural producers; Eliminate government authority to provide taxpayer-funded bailouts; Hold Wall St. and Washington accountable by implementing tougher penalties for fraud and deception; Increase access to credit and capital for middle-class Americans; and Reform the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) by removing its examination and supervisory powers and creating the “Consumer Law Enforcement Agency” that will have the dual mission to protect the consumers while creating competitive markets. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that the “Financial CHOICE Act” will reduce the federal deficit by $33.6 billion through 2027. You can read the entire CBO report here. If you would like to read more about the “Financial CHOICE Act”click here.
05.04.2017	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) today voted in support of the “American Health Care Act,” H.R. 1628, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 217-213. “Passing the American Health Care Act (AHCA) in the House is a major step toward repealing and replacing Obamacare,” Thornberry said. “This bill will help return power back to patients and their doctors while driving down costs. The Senate now needs to step up and pass it or something similar.” Thornberry also stressed that this bill will not touch Medicare benefits in any way. He said his office has heard from some constituents who were worried that the AHCA would make cuts to the Medicare benefits. “That simply is not true,” he said. Legislation, H.R. 2192, also passed today to ensure that provisions in the bill apply to Members of Congress and congressional staff. The AHCA is being considered by Congress under a special procedure known as reconciliation that requires a simple majority (51 votes) to pass in the Senate instead of the 60 votes necessary for most bills. However, only certain types of provisions can be included, which is the reason that further steps, regulatory and legislative, are needed to fully replace the Obamacare system. “We will continue to work to pass legislation that further repeals and replaces the disastrous law since Obamacare cannot be repealed and replaced in a single bill,” Thornberry said. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the bill will lower premiums by 10 percent, reduce the federal deficit by $150 billion, and lower taxes by nearly $1 trillion. H.R. 1628 will also: • Dismantle the Obamacare taxes that have hurt job creators, increased premium and health care costs, and limited options for patients and health care providers, which includes taxes on prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, health-insurance premiums, and medical devices; • Eliminate the Obamacare mandated penalties for individuals and employers; • Prohibit health insurers from denying coverage to patients based on pre-existing conditions or discriminating based on gender; • Help young adults access health insurance and stabilize the marketplace by allowing dependents to continue staying on their parents’ plan until they are 26; • Empower individuals and families to spend their health care dollars the way they want and need by enhancing and expanding Health Savings Accounts – nearly doubling the amount of money people can contribute and broadening how people can use it; • Establish a Patient and State Stability Fund, which provides states with $100 billion to design programs that meet the unique needs of their patient populations and help low-income Americans afford health care; • Create a federal Invisible Risk Sharing Program to help further stabilize markets to help with high-cost medical claims and lower premiums; • Modernize and strengthen Medicaid by transitioning to a “per capita allotment” so states can better serve the patients most in need; and • Help Americans access affordable, quality health care by providing a monthly tax credit to low and middle-income individuals and families who do not receive insurance through work or a government program.
05.03.2017	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted today in support of the “Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2017” that passed by a vote of 309-118. “This funding bill is the product of Congress and the White House working together to pass fiscally responsible legislation instead of continuing down the broken path of brinksmanship and partisan politics that we have been on for the last eight years. I am hopeful that the two branches can continue to work together for the good of our country,” Thornberry said. The legislation provides $1.07 trillion in regular discretionary funding through September 30, 2017. Locally, the bill appropriates funding for national security facilities and programs such as training missions at Sheppard Air Force Base in Wichita Falls and nuclear weapons activities at Pantex in Amarillo. About $3 billion total is authorized for Bell’s V-22 Osprey and helicopter programs, including the procurement of 20 new Ospreys and 26 AH-1Z / UH-1Y helicopter upgrades. An additional $112 million is provided for the V-280 program. Much of the work for those aircraft will be performed in Amarillo. “It is good that the defense needs in this measure do not appear to be tied to any other issue. For too long, some in both parties have attempted to use our military as leverage to pursue other political objectives. Our defense needs should stand on their own merits, and doing so here is an important step on the long path to rebuilding America’s military," said Thornberry, who serves as the Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. The legislation makes what Thornberry calls “a down payment on restoring our military.” It provides half of the $30 billion increase that the President requested for defense, which includes $5 billion for urgent combat needs and $10 billion for beginning to restore military readiness. “We still have a long way to go to get our military in shape to meet the threats we face, and the importance of adequate funding in FY 2018 grows by the day,” said Thornberry. Among other provisions, the bill: • Provides $1.5 billion for additional border security improvements; • Provides $50 million in additional current-year funding for VA to improve opiod and substance abuse prevention and treatment for veterans; • Increases FBI operations by $277 million to combat terrorism, espionage, and cyber and violent crime; • Ends Obama-era school meal regulations to provide flexibility for whole grains, milk, and sodium levels; • Reduces EPA funding by $81 million; • Freezes the IRS at current funding levels—$1 billion less than the Obama administration requested; • Provides about $34 billion for the National Institute of Health, which represents an increase of $2 billion in funding over the previous year; and • Maintains all existing pro-life policy and funding provisions.
04.26.2017	Students from Amarillo High School and Bonham Middle School will compete in the U.S. Department of Energy’s 2017 National Science Bowl this week in Washington, D.C. after winning the Pantex Regional Science Bowls. U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) said, “I would like to congratulate the students from Amarillo High School and Bonham Middle School who each won the Pantex Regional Science Bowl. I am proud to have these hardworking and dedicated students representing District 13 in the National Science Bowl and am excited to see young people from our state interested in science and math. I wish these two bright young teams the best of luck the rest of the way.” Amarillo High School’s team includes Kincannon Wilson, Tripp Harwell, Hunter Liu, Sahithi Tirumala, and Dawson Miller. They are coached by Rebekah McCallops and Kyle Hallett. Bonham Middle School’s team includes Ryan Jalbert, Josiah Miller, Rushmita Devulapalli, and Korbin Scroggins. They are coached by Hannah Galbreath and Kimberly Irving. Their teams are one of 48 middle school teams and one of 63 high school teams from across the country that advanced to the national competition. ###
04.26.2017	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) today responded to President Trump’s proposal to reform the U.S. tax code. “The tax reform outline that was released today by the White House is another encouraging step toward fixing our broken tax code. The proposal would simplify both individual and business taxes with the goal of encouraging economic growth,” said Thornberry. Among other provisions, the proposal would: • Eliminate the Estate Tax, commonly referred to as the “Death Tax”; • Reduce the number of tax brackets from seven to three; • Repeal the 3.8 percent Obamacare tax on investment income; and • Reduce the corporate tax rate to 15 percent. “Small business owners, farmers, and ranchers are particularly vulnerable to the Death Tax, making it more difficult for future generations to build upon their family’s hard work,” Thornberry said. “Death should never be a taxable event. All Americans should be able to work hard, build, and save knowing that they can pass on what they have earned to their children and grandchildren.” Thornberry has introduced or cosponsored a bill to repeal the death tax consistently while serving in Congress. ###
04.06.2017	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, held a hearing with the Service Chiefs of all branches of the military to hear their assessments of the consequences of the failure to pass the 2017 Department of Defense Appropriations bill with supplemental funding. The appropriations bill passed the House earlier this year with strong bipartisan support, but it has stalled in the Senate. “There is widespread agreement that funding cuts under the Budget Control Act, plus a series of continuing resolutions, coupled with the pace of required deployments have damaged the U.S. military. I believe that the damage has gone far deeper than most of us realize, requiring more time and more money to repair than is generally expected,” Thornberry said in his opening statement. He continued, “The immediate issue before us is the expiration of the current continuing resolution on April 28. The House passed a full appropriations bill for fiscal year 2017 on March 8 by a vote of 371 to 48. The Senate has not yet acted on it. As I have said before, I will not vote for a defense continuing resolution for the rest of 2017. It would simply do too much harm.” As the Senate considers adopting the 2017 appropriations bill - or imposing billions in cuts that a Continuing Resolution (CR) would represent - Thornberry requested an assessment of the harm a full-year CR or failure to include the added funding requested by the President would do to our men and women in uniform. According to the Department of Defense the military would face the following consequences: • Expected pay will be cut for service members, including promised bonuses. • The Marine Corps will reduce its force size by more than 2,000 Marines. • The Navy will halt the recruitment of 1,000 sailors. • The Air Force will halt the recruitment of 2,000 airmen. • The Air Force will be unable to retain pilots when it is already 1,500 pilots short. • Only one deploying Army unit will be able to conduct critical training after July 15. • Navy training cuts will result in 20-30 percent fewer qualified pilots than required. • The Air Force may have to ground all non-deploying squadrons on May 1. • The Navy will ground four of the nine non-deployed carrier air wings. • Three ships will not be deployed, creating gaps in Europe and the Middle East. • The Marine Corps will cease flight operations in the United States in July. • Only one third of all Navy Aircraft will be fully mission capable. • The Navy will cancel or delay critical repairs on 14 ships. You can download video of Thornberry’s full statement here.
04.05.2017	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement in response to the Bureau of Land Management’s (BLM) announcement that it used incorrect methodology in three surveys that are the basis for the federal government’s claims to private property along the Red River: “The BLM’s admission that it used incorrect methodology in these surveys and the decision to suspend the surveys is welcome news. “The portions of the river that the agency has surveyed strayed widely from the accepted gradient boundary survey method established by the Supreme Court in Oklahoma v. Texas. It is encouraging that the BLM has admitted their error and that all administrative action will be suspended until the matter is resolved. I will continue working with the landowners, local and state officials, and Senator Cornyn (R-TX) until this issue is resolved once and for all.” A copy of the BLM letter can be found here. Information about Thornberry’s “Red River Gradient Boundary Survey Act,” which passed the House earlier this year, can be found here. ###
03.28.2017	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) is now accepting entries for the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. The competition is open to all eligible high school students in the 13th Congressional District. The winner will have his or her art displayed in the United States Capitol for one year. The deadline for entries is April 18, 2017, and the winner will be announced April 26, 2017. “Each year, I am impressed by the talent and creativity shown by high school artists from District 13,” said Thornberry. “Seeing our piece of Texas represented in the Capitol building by artwork from our district’s talented young people is something to be proud of.” The winning student will be invited to participate in the exhibition’s opening celebration in Washington, D.C. this summer. Guidelines for submissions can be found at www.thornberry.house.gov/art/. ###
03.24.2017	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement after it was announced that the “American Health Care Act,” H.R. 1628, would not receive a vote today in the House of Representatives: “I am incredibly disappointed that the House did not pass the bill to repeal and replace Obamacare. The bill had its flaws, but it would have been a key first step toward reducing the cost of health insurance, giving patients more say over their health care, and improving Medicaid. It would have also eliminated taxes that are driving up the cost of health care for everyone. It was, without a doubt, better than what we have now under Obamacare. “I stand ready to vote for other proposals that can improve health care in this country. But those who refused to support the bill today share some of the responsibility for what is to come in the weeks, months, and years ahead under Obamacare.” ###
03.22.2017	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) today sent a letter to U.S. Department of Agriculture Acting Secretary Michael Young requesting that he provide a 60-day extension of the Emergency Use of CRP Lands for the Texas Panhandle Fires. The text of the letter is below. “I am writing to respectfully request a 60-day extension of the Emergency Use of CRP Lands for the Texas Panhandle Fires. “As you are aware, many counties in the Texas Panhandle recently experienced devastating wildfires. With almost 500,000 acres burned, thousands of miles of fence destroyed, and more than 2,000 head of livestock killed by smoke and flames; livestock producers are in dire need of places to house remaining livestock while fencing is re-established in these disaster areas. “While the 30-day emergency use that has been approved by the USDA is very welcome and appreciated, I have heard from several producers that will not be able to build fences in time to meet the short deadlines. Replanting grasses and finding other sources of forage within a month’s time will also be a daunting, if not impossible, task. Additionally, there are several counties in my district that experienced heavy losses that are only eligible for grazing once every three years. “Along with falling prices for cattle and our recent lack of rain, this disaster has certainly added additional uncertainty to affected producers. An extension of the Emergency Use of CRP Lands would provide a better opportunity for fencing to be rebuilt while providing a safe home for livestock. It will also help these struggling producers recover and get back on their feet. “Within your rules and regulations, I ask that you give this request your full and prompt considerations. I look forward to our continued and shared work to ensure the viability of our nation’s agricultural producers.” A copy of the letter can be downloaded here. ###
03.17.2017	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted this week in support of two bills that will reform the Veterans Affairs (VA) hospital system and provide greater support for veterans. “Meeting our commitments to our veterans is one of the most important responsibilities of the federal government. These bills make important reforms to the VA system to address some of the deficiencies within the system and allow it to better serve our nation’s veterans,” Thornberry said. “These men and women have put their lives on the line to keep our country safe, and they deserve our best in return.” H.R. 1259 would: • Allow the VA Secretary to remove or demote a VA employee due to poor performance or misconduct; • Enhance whistleblower protections; • Allow the Secretary to reduce the pension of individuals in senior executive service positions who committed a felony that influenced their job performance; and • Allow the Secretary to suspend, reprimand, or admonish an individual for actions based on performance or misconduct if their conduct does not rise to the level of removal. H.R. 1367 would: • Provide the VA Secretary more authority to hire employees for positions that the Inspector General has identified as having the largest staffing shortages; • Require VA political appointees to be subject to annual performance plans and evaluations; • Create a fellowship program that allows senior VA staff and private sector employees to participate in fellowships; and • Expand preferential consideration for veterans seeking jobs with the federal employment. ###
03.09.2017	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) is urging agriculture producers who have suffered livestock and property losses in the recent wildfires to file a Notice of Loss with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to begin the federal assistance process. A Notice of Loss must be filed within 30 days of the time of the loss by phone or in person at a local USDA county service center. County service center locations can be found on their website at https://offices.sc.egov.usda.gov/locator/app. “Sally and I continue to pray for those who have lost so much in recent days, especially the families and friends of Sloan Everett, Cody Crockett, Sydney Wallace, and Cade Koch. Nothing can ever replace the loss of their loved ones,” Thornberry said. “For those who have lost livestock and property, it is important to assess the losses as soon as it is safe and begin the assistance process with the USDA.” To qualify, you must have legally owned the eligible livestock, poultry, or swine on the day they died, and they must: Have died due to an eligible weather event on or after Oct. 1, 2011 and no later than 60 days from the end date of the event. Have been for commercial use in a farming operation on the day they died. Have died in the calendar year of requested benefits. The program excludes wild, free-roaming animals, or pets or animals used for recreational purposes, like for hunting, roping, or show. You must have had possession and control of the livestock and a written agreement with the livestock owner. The specific terms, conditions, and obligations of both parties must be set. The following resources and information have been provided by the Texas Animal Health Commission (TAHC). Agriculture Indemnity Program Several programs authorized by the 2014 Farm Bill provide benefits to livestock producers for livestock deaths due to wildfires and other natural disasters. The Livestock Indemnity Program provides benefits to livestock producers for livestock deaths in excess of normal mortality caused by adverse weather or disasters. The Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honeybees, and Farm-Raised Fish Program (ELAP) provides benefits to livestock producers for livestock losses that are not covered under other disaster assistance programs. For more details, contact your local FSA office. To find your local FSA county office, visit www.offices.usda.gov. To learn more about FSA disaster assistance programs, visit www.disaster.fsa.usda.gov. Livestock Supply Points The following livestock supply points are currently receiving and distributing donated feed resources to producers impacted by wildfires. The Farm Service Agency (FSA) is not involved in the donation or distribution process. FSA is, however, raising awareness of the supply point locations where resources are available to producers located in counties affected by wildfires. Supply Point 1 Serving ranchers in Gray, Wheeler and Roberts counties 301 Bull Barn Dr Pampa, TX Contact: Mike Jeffcoat Office: 806-669-8033 Cell: 580-467-0753 Supply Point 2 Serving ranchers in in Ochiltree, Lipscomb, Hemphill and Roberts counties 202 West Main St Lipscomb, TX Contact: J.R. Spragg Office: 806-862-4601 Cell: 806-202-5288 Texas Department of Agriculture Hay Hotline TDA's hay hotline helps agricultural producers locate forage and hay supplies for sale. If you need hay or would like to donate hay, visit www.gotexan.org/hayhotlinehome.aspx or call 877-429-1998. Carcass Disposal For questions about carcass disposal call the Texas Commission on Environment Quality (TCEQ) at 800-832-8224 or visit their website at www.tceq.texas.gov. Lost or Found Livestock If you find cattle or other livestock with official identification, document the number, location of the animal(s), and call the TAHC at 512-719-0733 or 806-354-9335 and TAHC will contact the owner. If you find stray cattle that have a brand, call Texas Southwestern Cattle Raisers Association (TSCRA) at 817-332-7064 for brand identification. If cattle have strayed onto your property, you must report them to the sheriff's office in the county you are located in within five days of discovery to be eligible for reasonable payment for maintenance of or damages caused by the estray livestock. For more information regarding Texas' estray laws visit: http://www.statutes.legis.state.tx.us/Docs/AG/htm/AG.142.htm.
03.08.2017	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement about the Republican proposal to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act: “Obamacare is failing and is doing damage to the health care of all Americans. This is the first step in a process that will lead to patient-centered care that provides more choices and lowers prices instead of mandates. “I am sure that the plan will be improved during the legislative process, but it is important to get started and get this job done.” ###
03.08.2017	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, voted today in support of the “Fiscal Year 2017 Defense Appropriations,” H.R. 1301, which appropriates nearly $577.9 billion in funding for national defense. The bill passed by an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote of 371 to 48. “By passing this bill with a strong bipartisan vote, Congress sent an important message to the men and women of the military as well as to allies and potential adversaries around the world. It is an essential first step to repair and rebuild our military. But it is not enough. We must follow it up with a supplemental appropriations bill and a FY 2018 funding level that fulfills the first responsibility of the federal government, which is to defend the country,” Thornberry said. When combined with the funding provided in the continuing resolution supplemental enacted in December, defense funding for the 2017 fiscal year totals $584 billion. Locally, the bill appropriates funding for national security facilities and programs such as training missions at Sheppard Air Force Base in Wichita Falls. In addition, about $2.9 billion total is authorized for Bell’s V-22 Osprey and helicopter programs, including the procurement of 19 new Ospreys and 24 new AH-1Z / UH-1Y helicopters. Much of the work for those aircraft will be performed in Amarillo. The bill also fully funds the 2.1 percent pay raise for service members authorized in Thornberry’s Defense Authorization Act that passed in December. You can download video footage of Thornberry speaking on the floor of the House in support of the bill here. ###
03.06.2017	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement to commend Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt for withdrawing the Information Collection Request (ICR) for the oil and natural gas industry to provide information to develop regulations for methane emissions from existing sources: “EPA Administrator Pruitt’s decision to withdraw the methane emissions ICR for the oil and natural gas industry is a welcome move away from the previous Administration’s agenda to expand their authority and control over many parts of our society. We have a responsibility to be good stewards of our environment, but that does not mean that the federal government should be burdening our nation’s energy producers with needless and costly regulations like this one. “There is no question that these burdensome regulations like the ICR drive up costs for businesses and consumers alike. By the EPA’s own estimate, the ICR would have cost producers $42 million to comply during a time when the industry is already dealing with financial hardships.” You can view a letter that Thornberry sent to Administrator Pruitt about rescinding the ICR by clicking here. ###
03.01.2017	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) applauded the executive order signed by President Trump to rewrite the Obama-era regulation related to “Waters of the U.S.” (WOTUS) and has introduced legislation to solve the problem permanently. Thornberry’s bill, the “Federal Regulatory Certainty for Water Act,” H.R. 1261, clarifies the definition of “navigable waters” in the Clean Water Act (CWA) as waters that are navigable-in-fact or are permanently flowing bodies of water that physically connect to navigable waters. “This week, the President signed an executive order to begin reversing the WOTUS rule as it was finalized by the Obama administration. We should also clarify the definition of ‘navigable waters’ to prevent future administrations from using the CWA in ways that are far beyond its intended scope,” Thornberry said. For decades, the courts and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) have grappled over the scope of the CWA, which simply defines “navigable waters” as “the waters of the United States, including the territorial seas.” In May 2015, the EPA and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers finalized the WOTUS rule, which could allow the regulation of almost any wet area on private land that has some arbitrary connection to a navigable body of water. “Folks who live and work in our part of Texas, especially the farmers and ranchers, understand the importance of clean water and work hard to be good stewards of the land. This bill will help protect the personal property and water rights that are so fundamental to the American way of life, a family’s business, and many people’s livelihoods,” Thornberry said. Since 2013, Thornberry has introduced and supported several bills that offered simple, commonsense ways to protect private landowners from regulatory overreach by the EPA and the Corps. ###
02.14.2017	The “Red River Gradient Boundary Survey Act,” H.R. 428, introduced by U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), today passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 250-171. The bill establishes a fair and balanced process to conduct an accurate survey of contested land along the Red River to find the proper boundary between public and private ownership. “This bill essentially requires the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to do what they should have done all along. Its passage in the House is an important step toward providing these landowners with the legal certainty they deserve. I hope we can use this momentum to get the bill passed in the Senate and then signed into law by the President,” Thornberry said. “I will continue working with the landowners, local and state officials, and Senator Cornyn (R-TX) until this issue is resolved once and for all.” For nearly a century, the BLM has failed to survey a small strip of federal land along the entire 116-mile stretch of the Red River between Oklahoma and Texas. The BLM has never actively managed the small strip of federal land, and its own estimates of how much they own have varied widely over the years. As a result, private landowners along the River are now unsure whether the land that they have held titles to and have paid taxes on, in some cases for generations, will remain in their families or be confiscated by the federal government. Since concern first arose in December 2013, Thornberry’s office has held multiple meetings, phone calls, and other correspondence with landowners, as well as local and state officials, to coordinate action. The legislation will provide legal certainty to property owners along the Red River by: • Commissioning a survey of the entire 116-mile stretch of contested area along the Red River using the gradient boundary survey method developed and backed by the Supreme Court to find the proper ownership boundary between public and private land. • Ordering that the survey be conducted by licensed and qualified surveyors chosen by Texas and Oklahoma. • Providing states the authority to oversee the surveyors and approve the final survey to ensure the Supreme Court instructions are properly followed. • Requiring that a notice of survey approval, a copy of the survey, and any related field notes be provided to each individual land owner after the survey is completed. • Ensuring that nothing in the bill alters the Red River Boundary Compact, modifies the interests of the states, or harms the rights of the impacted federally recognized Indian Tribes. You can download video interview footage for news purposes by clicking here.
01.12.2017	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted in support of the “Regulatory Accountability Act of 2017,” H.R. 5, which combines six previously passed or introduced House bills that will reform the federal regulatory system. The bill passed the House by a vote of 238-183. “People are sick and tired of regulations that hurt jobs and our economy, and Congressional Republicans made repealing or correcting burdensome regulations the first item on our agenda. The provisions in this bill will make the regulatory process more transparent, federal agencies more accountable, and the regulations they produce less costly,” Thornberry said. The legislation is the second major bill dealing with regulations to pass the House in the 115th Congress, and Thornberry said the House will continue to focus on this issue as the year progresses. As a part of that effort, he has sent a letter to local Chambers of Commerce asking them to gather information on the most burdensome regulations their businesses face. “Business owners understand better than anyone how harmful some of these regulations can be because they are the people who have to comply with them. Their feedback will help me and others in Congress direct our efforts where they will make the most difference,” said Thornberry. H.R. 5 includes the following provisions: Title I – “Regulatory Accountability Act,” which requires agencies to choose the lowest-cost rulemaking alternative that meets objectives and requires greater opportunity for public input and vetting of critical information; Title II – “Separation of Powers Restoration Act,” which would rein in the Executive Branch by scaling back Chevron-based deference to federal agencies, by requiring de novo review of agency actions for all relevant questions of law, including Constitutional and statutory interpretation. It would place judicial review back in the hands of the Judiciary, and make clear the lines between judicial interpretation of law and executive enforcement of the law; Title III – “Small Business Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act,” which would expand the Regulatory Flexibility Act requiring regulatory agencies to account for the effect on small businesses in their rulemaking. It would require agencies to include the indirect effects of regulations on small businesses, not just the direct impact. It would also require agencies to have a small business advocacy panel to review major regulations; Title IV – “REVIEW Act,” which would prohibit new billion-dollar rules from taking effect until courts can resolve timely-filed litigation challenging their promulgation; Title V – “ALERT Act,” which would require agencies to provide detailed disclosures on regulations; and Title VI – “Providing Accountability Through Transparency Act,” which would require each agency to include a 100-word, plain-language summary of a proposed rule when providing notice of a rulemaking.
01.10.2017	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) and U.S. Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX) introduced legislation today in the U.S. House and Senate to protect private property rights along the Red River from federal ownership claims. By providing legal certainty to landowners, the “Red River Gradient Boundary Survey Act” seeks to end questions about the federal government's ownership of disputed land along the Red River. “Private property owners should never have to worry about the federal government coming in and taking away their land, especially land that has never been properly surveyed. Our bills will help provide these property owners the certainty that they deserve to know where public lands end and private lands begin,” Thornberry said. Many landowners and other public officials are alarmed that Bureau of Land Management (BLM) actions might result in disputed claims of ownership. Since concern first arose in December 2013, Thornberry’s and Cornyn’s offices have held multiple meetings, phone calls, and other correspondence with landowners, as well as local and state officials, to coordinate action. “With a long overdue survey of the land in question, this bill can finally end the baseless claims the federal government has made over privately owned property along the Red River,” said Sen. Cornyn. “Texas families who have lived along the river for generations deserve to know they’re protected from a federal land grab, and this bill is a critical first step towards providing these folks certainty.” The legislation they introduced this week has been adjusted from the bills they introduced in the previous two sessions of Congress. In 2015, a previous version of the bill passed the House of Representatives 253-177. The new legislation reflects the input they received by listening to landowners, the Texas General Land Office, and many others. Thornberry and Cornyn have been pressing the case with BLM locally and with the agency’s leadership in Washington. In 2013, the agency said there are thousands of acres along the Red River on the border between Texas and Oklahoma that may be considered public domain. But the majority of the contested river has never been properly surveyed by the BLM. The stretch of land is located in Wilbarger, Wichita, and Clay counties. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) and Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04) are original cosponsors of the legislation. The legislation will provide legal certainty to property owners along the Red River by: • Commissioning a survey of the majority of the 116-mile stretch of contested area along the Red River using the gradient boundary survey method developed and backed by the Supreme Court to find the proper ownership boundary between public and private land. • Ordering that the survey be conducted by licensed and qualified surveyors chosen by Texas and Oklahoma. • Providing states the authority to oversee the surveyors and approve the final survey to ensure the Supreme Court instructions are properly followed. • Requiring that a notice of survey approval, a copy of the survey, and any related field notes be provided to each individual land owner after the survey is completed. • Ensuring that nothing in the bill alters the Red River Boundary Compact, modifies the interests of the states, or harms the rights of the impacted federally recognized Indian Tribes. You can download video interview footage for news purposes by clicking here.
01.04.2017	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) introduced his first bill of the 115th Congress. The “Death Tax Repeal Act,” H.R. 198, will completely and permanently repeal the federal estate, gift, and generation-skipping taxes. The bill already has garnered 44 cosponsors. “This simple, two-page bill would permanently and fully eliminate the death tax, which undermines one of America’s most important means of capital formation: building a family enterprise,” said Thornberry. “Death should never be a taxable event. All Americans should be able to work hard, build, and save knowing that they can pass on what they have earned to their children and grandchildren.” The death tax, also known as the inheritance tax or estate tax, requires families to turn over portions of an inheritance to the government. Small business owners, farmers, and ranchers are often particularly vulnerable to this tax, making it more difficult for future generations to build upon their family’s hard work. A 2015 report from the Tax Foundation estimated that repealing the death tax would grow the economy by $137 billion or a 0.8 percent growth in gross domestic product. Additionally, that report estimated that approximately 150,000 additional jobs would be created in the decade after elimination. Thornberry has introduced or cosponsored a bill to repeal the death tax consistently while serving in Congress. The House passed a similar measure in 2015, and with tax reform as a major priority for the new Congress and the new Administration, the prospects for a full death tax repeal are better than they have been in several years. Among the groups most commonly associated with this effort are the National Association of Manufacturers, American Farm Bureau Federation, Independent Community Bankers of America, National Cattlemen’s Beef Association, U.S. Chamber of Commerce, National Association of Homebuilders, and National Pork Producers Council. But it is important to note the support from the National Black Chamber of Commerce, National Small Business Association, Public Lands Council, Small Business & Entrepreneurship Council, and the Hispanic Leadership Fund.
12.13.2016	Congress has passed the “Water Resources Development Act of 2016,” H.R. 5303, which includes an amendment introduced by U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) that will prevent the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) from forcing the City of Wichita Falls to destroy nearly 150 Lake Kemp cabins before 2025. The issue stems from an agreement in the 1960s between the Corps, Wichita Falls, and other stakeholders when the Lake Kemp dam and spillway was reconstructed. That agreement required the city to demolish all of the privately owned cabins at Lake Kemp that were below 1,159-feet mean sea level (MSL) out of concern that they might flood. The agreement has been modified to prevent the demolition several times, most recently in 2007 when it was extended through January 1, 2020. “This five-year extension protects the rights of the cabin owners and the private property rights of the current owner of the Waggoner Estate, while allowing the city and those stakeholders more time to resolve this issue,” Thornberry said. To date, none of the cabins at the lake below the 1,159 MSL have flooded. The highest pool of record at Lake Kemp was 1,150-feet MSL in August of 1995. Lake Kemp functions as a recreational and flood control facility that also supplies municipal water. The land surrounding Lake Kemp is part of the historic privately owned Waggoner Estate Ranch that was recently purchased by Mr. Stan Kroenke of Kroenke Sports Enterprises.
12.05.2016	The U.S. House of Representatives passed the annual defense policy bill that authorizes spending for military personnel, weapons systems, national security programs, and foreign military operations by a vote of 375 to 34. This is the second National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to be passed under U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry’s (R-Clarendon) chairmanship of the House Armed Services Committee. “Above all else, this bill is focused on supporting the men and women who keep our nation safe. It provides them the full pay raise to which they are entitled by law, it improves their health care system, it ensures they receive the equipment and training they need to do their jobs, and much more,” Thornberry said. “It also makes a clear statement to our friends and adversaries across the world that the United States will have the means to defend itself, and it begins to reassure the men and women who serve our nation that whatever they are asked to do, they will be prepared and supported fully.” The bill authorizes nearly $619 billion in spending for national defense, which is $3.2 billion more than requested by the President. It also includes the largest pay increase for service members in six years at 2.1 percent. President Obama attempted to reduce it to a 1.6 percent raise. This year’s NDAA not only stops the damaging cuts to our military’s size, it begins to make it stronger. It starts to stabilize the readiness problems that are making it more difficult for our troops to accomplish their mission and increasingly represents a danger to the lives. It contains landmark reforms to improve our military’s strength and agility. Locally, the bill authorizes funding for national security facilities and programs such as training missions at Sheppard Air Force Base in Wichita Falls, including $91.9 million in construction projects. In addition, about $1.66 billion total is authorized for Bell’s V-22 Osprey and helicopter programs, including the procurement of 16 new Ospreys and 24 new AH-1Z / UH-1Y helicopters for the Marine Corps. Much of the work for those aircraft will be performed in Amarillo. It provides $9.4 billion in funding for nuclear weapons activities—including those performed at Pantex—which is a $186 million increase to the budget request. This includes full funding for the critically important production work at Pantex for the W76 life extension program. To help address the severe backlog of maintenance on physical infrastructure across the National Nuclear Security Administration, the bill provides $106 million for recapitalization projects and preventative maintenance. The bill also includes $730 million for defense nuclear security, an increase of $60 million to the budget request, to recapitalize aging physical security equipment located at Pantex and Y-12. The NDAA improves access to quality care for service members, retirees, and their families, while enhancing medical readiness. Reforms ensure that the generous benefit our troops deserve and have earned is sustainable for generations to come. These reforms make no changes for the current force or retirees. Other highlights include: Military Personnel and Pay: The bill supports a 2.1 percent pay raise for service members. BRAC: Prohibits another round of base closings. Commissaries: Reforms the commissary system to preserve the benefit, while also making improvements to ensure continued saving for shoppers. Strengthens Military: Reverses cuts to troop strength; increases investments in training and maintenance programs; and rebuilds crumbling facilities like barracks, hangars, and airfields. Deterring Russia: Provides funds for more troops and equipment in Europe to deter Russia, as well as additional funds to assist Ukraine. Fighting ISIS: Provides funds to train and equip Syrian fighters and assist Iraqis in re-taking Mosul, and adds funds to make sure that Kurdish and Sunni allies are able to stay in the fight. A more detailed summary of the bill can be found here. You can download video interview footage for news purposes by clicking here.
12.01.2016	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted in support of the “21stCentury Cures Act,” H.R. 34, which will speed up the approval of life-saving medical drugs, increase funding for disease and cancer research, for the advancement of medical devices and drugs, for opioid prevention and treatment programs, and for mental health research and treatment. The bill passed the House Wednesday evening by a bipartisan vote of 392-26. “This bill is going to do a great deal to help millions of Americans and their families who are living with the devastating effects of cancer, diseases like Alzheimer’s and diabetes, drug addiction, and mental health issues,” said Thornberry. “This is a patient-focused, fiscally responsible bill that will help advance our medical research, increase the availability of effective medical treatment, and accelerate the development of life-saving medical technologies and drugs.” The legislation will dedicate $5.3 billion for the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and National Institutes of Health (NIH). It will also reduce the deficit by $5.81 billion through 2026. Among other provisions the funding will be used to: Advance the Precision Medicine Initiative to drive research into the genetic, lifestyle and environmental variations of disease; Bolster the "Cancer Moonshot” to speed up cancer research; Invest in the BRAIN initiative to improve our understanding of diseases like Alzheimer's; Spur the development of health software and mobile medical apps, vaccines, and regenerative medicine therapies; Modernize clinical trials to expedite the review of critical drugs; and Help the FDA recruit and retain the best and brightest scientists, doctors, and engineers. “This bill also represents the most significant reform to our mental health system in more than a decade, and it provides $1 billion in grants to the states to fight the opioid epidemic. These are two areas that we have a great deal of work to do as a nation,” Thornberry said. The legislation is supported by Association of American Cancer Institutes, American Association for Cancer Research, American Association of Orthopedic Surgeons, Association of American Medical Colleges, American Heart Association, American Psychiatric Association, Epilepsy Foundation, Infectious Diseases Society of America, National Organization for Rare Disorders, and many other organizations. You can access a fact sheet with more information about the Cures Act here. You can download video interview footage for news purposes by clicking here.
09.20.2016	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement to commemorate the 75th anniversary of Sheppard Air Force Base: “For 75 years, Sheppard Air Force Base has played an important role in our national defense. In one key area, technical training, it has produced more graduates than any other institution in the Air Force. “Key to Sheppard’s success over the last three-quarters of a century has been the unquantified support of the people and communities in the North Texas region. While impossible to quantify, the patriotism, pride, and willingness to pitch in to do whatever the base needed has been invaluable. And the men and women of Sheppard have returned the favor by being good neighbors and contributing to worthy causes throughout the area. “Today, it remains at the forefront of American national security – providing essential skills to Air Force and other military personnel and helping build the trust and familiarity necessary for international coalitions to fight effectively together. “The future for Sheppard is brighter than ever. As long as freedom must be defended, it will have a role to play, and it will fulfill its missions with the patriotism, excellence, and commitment it has shown in its proud past.” ###
09.16.2016	More than 140 North Texas veterans, family members, and volunteers traveled to Washington this week to tour Congress and the memorials that commemorate their service and sacrifice. U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) hosted the group today for a special tour of the Capitol where he had the opportunity to speak to them on the Floor of the House. "Sally, the staff, and I are privileged to welcome the Honor Flight to the U.S. Capitol again this year. Each veteran has a special story to tell, and we enjoy hearing all of them," said Thornberry. "It is a wonderful reminder of the unique contribution our part of Texas had made — and continues to make — to defending our freedom and keeping our country safe." Texas Panhandle Honor Flight is a non-profit organization headquartered in Amarillo. The Honor Flights are part of the organization’s efforts to promote awareness and support for our U.S. military service members and veterans, as well as their families. The group also organizes care boxes for active duty personnel, sponsors an annual Armed Forces Day banquet, and organizes welcome home and return to duty rallies. "Thank you to Texas Panhandle Honor Flight, which organizes these trips, all the family members, and the volunteers that make it happen. And thank you to all of our veterans past and present who have served our nation," Thornberry said. Honor Flight is a national program that began a decade ago as a project to offer World War II veterans all-expenses-paid overnight trips to Washington, D.C., to see the National World War II Memorial. Today, these flights honor America’s veterans by paying for and transporting groups of veterans from all over the country to see the memorials designed and erected to honor their service. ###
09.15.2016	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted in support of a bill that would improve accountability measures and whistleblower protections at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The “VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act of 2016,” H.R. 5620, passed the House by a vote of 310-116. “When our veterans turn to the VA for health care, they deserve to know they will receive the best service possible, and the majority of VA employees work hard to provide that type of care,” Thornberry said. “If the Secretary does not have all of the tools necessary to hold people accountable and actually use them, it is a disservice to the good employees, the American taxpayers, and most importantly, our veterans.” H.R. 5620 gives the Secretary of the VA more authority to remove employees for poor performance or misconduct, recoup bonuses or performance awards from employees when appropriate, increase whistleblower protections, and reform the appeals process for veteran benefit claims. “Over the past several years, Congress has passed a number of reform bills to address many of the serious problems throughout the VA system, and I will continue to do everything I can to ensure we are upholding our sacred commitment to these men and women who have sacrificed so much for us,” said Thornberry. You can download video interview footage for news purposes by clicking here. ###
08.29.2016	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) is warning 13th District residents against new waves of scams trying to take people’s money. Criminals are using several different schemes to extort money from innocent people. The scams include: • Emails that demand immediate payment of tax debts; • Letters that threaten to turn the recipient over to a collection company or report them to a credit agency unless they immediately pay for some item they have purchased, often medical equipment; and • Calls or emails that use personal information taken from social media, such as the names of family members, to invent stories of medical emergencies or arrests that require immediate payment. “People from our area have come to me with all of these types of scams just within the last week. While many of them seek to take advantage of older citizens, everyone should be alert for these and other creative attempts by criminals to obtain money,” Thornberry said. In one of the most common IRS scams, criminals call or send emails to the victims and identify themselves as Department of the Treasury or IRS officials. They claim that the victim owes money to the IRS and that they must pay the balance immediately using a credit card, pre-paid debit card, or wire transfer. They threaten punishment, including arrest or suspension of a business or driver’s license if the debt is not paid immediately. The scammers may also use fake badge numbers and use phone numbers with a 202 Washington area code. “People should be are aware of this scheme before they become victims themselves. We also want them to know how important it is to report instances like this so these criminals can be found and prosecuted,” Thornberry added. The IRS generally first contacts people by mail – not by phone – about unpaid taxes and will not ask for payment using a pre-paid debit card, a money order, or a wire transfer. The IRS also will not ask for a credit card number or your bank information over the phone. If you get a call from someone claiming to be with the IRS asking for a payment or your credit card or bank account information, report it by going to treasury.gov/tigta. There is an online form you can fill out or you can call their scam hotline at 800-366-4484. “If someone unexpectedly calls claiming to be from the IRS or in a new twist, the Treasury Department, and uses the threat of legal action if you do not pay immediately, that is a sign that it is not the IRS calling, and your cue to hang up,” Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration J. Russell George said. “Again, do not engage with these callers. If they call you, hang up the telephone.” The IRS will also never request personal or financial information by e-mail, text, or any social media. You should forward scam e-mails to phishing@irs.gov. Do not open any attachments or click on any links in those e-mails. Reporting these incidents helps in the following ways according to the Department of the Treasury: • Providing the call-back number can lead to arrests. • It builds an evidentiary trail. • Telephone numbers are shut down. • Scam attempts are cataloged. More information can be found at the Department of the Treasury’s website here: https://www.treasury.gov/services/report-fwa/Pages/ReportFWA.aspx
08.01.2016	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement: "I am dismayed at the attacks Khizr and Ghazala Khan have endured after they spoke about their son's service and sacrifice. There is never enough honor we can show to the families of those whose loved ones have made the ultimate sacrifice for our country. Service to our country is above politics. I believe that each of us are called every day to show our deepest respect and gratitude to all of those who protect our freedom and their families."
07.08.2016	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement after Thursday's shooting in Dallas that killed four Dallas police officers and one Dallas Area Rapid Transit officer: "Our hearts go out to the families of the police officers and the other victims of the ambush shooting in Dallas. After the deadliest day for law enforcement since 9/11, it is especially important for all of us to express our support and gratitude for all of the law enforcement officers who help keep us safe." ###
07.06.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement in response to the President's announcement that new troop levels in Afghanistan will be set at 8,448. “The precision of the President’s new Afghanistan troop cap would be comical were its consequences not so tragic for our mission and military readiness. It is time that the President level with the American people about what it will really take to achieve our goals in Afghanistan, and how much it will cost. The truth is that many thousands more Americans are performing military functions in Afghanistan - than even the current troop cap authorizes. The President refuses to pay for them, and his budget does not have room for the troops he is committing. For all of the bluster about funding troops in harm's way, it is the President who proposes to extend the vital mission without any resources behind it. The White House must submit a supplemental funding request to accommodate troop levels in Afghanistan immediately.” ###
06.23.2016	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement after the Supreme Court announced its decision on President Obama's executive action on immigration in the case of United States v. Texas: "Today's Supreme Court decision stops the President's attempt to rewrite immigration laws on his own. That is not the way our Constitution works, as the courts have again made clear. I hope the President is listening." You can download video interview footage for news purposes by clicking here. ###
06.14.2016	"I want to commend the Amarillo Police Department, other law enforcement officers, and first responders for their handling of today’s incident. While further information is sure to come, what we know is that no one other than the suspect was injured. Every day law enforcement officers stand ready to protect the public, even at the risk of their own lives. Especially in recent months, I do not believe they get the thanks they deserve. Today we have all been reminded." ###
06.12.2016	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement on the attack in Orlando: "The victims of this morning's horrific shooting in Orlando are in my prayers, as are their families. Early news reports indicate that the terrorist who committed this act may have been compelled by radical Islam. Law enforcement and the intelligence community will make that determination. In the meantime, this attack is a sobering reminder of the lethal reach of a murderous ideology - one we must fully confront if we hope to defeat it." ###
05.19.2016	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the annual defense policy bill that authorizes spending for military personnel, weapons systems, national security programs, and foreign military operations by a vote of 277 to 147. This is the second National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to be passed under local U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry’s (R-Clarendon) chairmanship of the House Armed Services Committee. “This bill stops cuts to our Armed Forces, provides a pay raise for our troops, and makes major reforms in several critical areas including military health care, the commissary system, the Uniform Code of Military Justice, and the acquisition system,” Thornberry said. “The legislation seeks to ensure that we do not deploy troops who are not fully trained, whose equipment is worn out, and who did not get the resources they needed back home to be ready to face our enemies overseas.” The bill authorizes nearly $610 billion in spending for national defense. Locally, the bill also includes funding for national security facilities including training missions at Sheppard Air Force Base in Wichita Falls, about $2.8 billion total for Bell’s V-22 Osprey and helicopter programs including the procurement of 18 new Ospreys and 26 new AH-1Z / UH-1Y helicopters for the Marine Corps. Much of the work for those aircraft will be performed in Amarillo. It also provides $9.6 billion in funding for nuclear weapons activities—including those performed at Pantex—which is a $316 million increase to the budget request. To help address the severe backlog of maintenance on physical infrastructure across the National Nuclear Security Administration, the bill provides $120 million specifically for recapitalization projects and an additional $30 million for preventative maintenance. The bill also includes $717 million for defense nuclear security, an increase of $60 million to the budget request, to recapitalize aging physical security equipment located at Pantex and Y-12. The NDAA improves access to quality care for service members, retirees, and their families, while enhancing medical readiness. Reforms ensure that the generous benefit our troops deserve and have earned is sustainable for generations to come. These reforms make no changes for the current force or retirees. Other Highlights Military Personnel and Pay: The bill supports a 2.1 percent pay raise for service members, which is higher than the President’s proposal of 1.6 percent. BRAC: Prohibits another round of base closings. Commissaries: Reforms the commissary system to preserve the benefit, while also making improvements to ensure continued saving for shoppers, a good Strengthens Military: Reverses cuts to troop strength; increases investments in training and maintenance programs; and rebuilds crumbling facilities like barracks, hangars, and airfields. Readiness: Makes vital investments in maintenance by including an increase of $597 million for the Navy and Marine Corps, $312 million for the Army, and $430 million more for the Air Force to ensure next-to-deploy units are mission capable. Deterring Russia: Provides funds for more troops and equipment in Europe to deter Russia, as well as additional funds to assist Ukraine. Fighting ISIS: Provides funds to train and equip Syrian fighters and assist Iraqis in re-taking Mosul, and adds funds to make sure that Kurdish and Sunni allies are able to stay in the fight.
05.13.2016	This week the House passed, and U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) supported, a series of 18 bills to address the nation’s growing opioid abuse epidemic. The bills were combined to become the “Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act,” which passed the House by a vote of 400-5. Opioids, often used to suppress pain, can become addicting for many Americans, including adolescents, veterans, and pregnant women. The number of deaths related to opioid overdose quadrupled to 28,647 between 2000 and 2014. According to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, an estimated 15 million Americans abused prescription drugs during the past year. “This abuse of opioids has really become epidemic,” said Thornberry. “Statistics show that one in five Americans have a family member who has become dependent upon these pain killers, both prescription and illegal narcotics. With strong bipartisan support, Congress voted to remove bureaucracy and provide more tools to deal with this crisis.” You can download video interview footage for news purposes on this issue by clicking here. The bills passed this week that were combined into a final package include: · H.R. 4063, the “Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act,” would improve opioid management in treating veterans; · H.R. 4985, the “Kingpin Designation Improvement Act of 2016,” would target international drug trafficking in the U.S.; · S. 32, the “Transnational Drug Trafficking Act of 2015,” would provide the Department of Justice with additional tools to target extraterritorial drug trafficking activity; · H.R 5048, the “Good Samaritan Assessment Act of 2016,” would protect first responders from liability law that could interfere with emergency treatment of opioid overdoses; · H.R. 5052, the “OPEN Act,” would require an evaluation of the effectiveness of grant programs that address opioid abuse; · H.R 4843, the “Improving Safe Care for the Prevention of Infant Abuse and Neglect Act,” would strengthen safeguards and state abuse programs as a condition of receiving a federal grant for child abuse or neglect prevention; · H.R. 4978, the “NAS Healthy Babies Act,” would require the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to submit a report to Congress on neonatal abstinence syndrome in the U.S. and its treatment under Medicaid; · H.R. 3680, the “Co-Prescribing to Reduce Overdoses Act of 2016,” would allow the Secretary of HHS to carry out a five-year grant program for co-prescribing opioid overdose reversal drugs; · H.R. 3691, the “Improving Treatment for Pregnant and Postpartum Women Act of 2016,” would reauthorize residential treatment programs for pregnant and postpartum women and establish a pilot program to develop models for treating women with substance abuse; · H.R. 1818, the “Veteran Emergency Medical Technician Support Act of 2016,” would streamline the process for veterans with military emergency medical training to become civilian emergency medical technicians; · H.R. 4969, the “John Thomas Decker Act of 2016,” would direct the Centers for Disease Control to provide educational materials to help prevent addiction in adolescents who are injured playing sports; · H.R. 4586, “Lali’s Law,” would increase access to the lifesaving opioid antidote; · H.R. 4599, the “Reducing Unused Medications Act of 2016,” would permit partial fillings of certain prescriptions; · H.R. 4976, the “Opioid Review Modernization Act of 2016,” would require new opioids to be referred to an advisory committee at the Food and Drug Administration prior to approval; · H.R. 4982, the “Examining Opioid Treatment Infrastructure Act of 2016,” would require a GAO report on the inpatient and outpatient treatment capacity in the U.S.; · H.R. 4981, the “Opioid Use Disorder Treatment Expansion and Modernization Act,”would increase the number of patients a qualified practitioner could treat for opioid use disorder; · H.R. 4641 provides for the establishment of an inter-agency task force to review, modify, and updated best practices for pain management and prescribing pain medication, and for other purposes; and · H.R. 5046, the “Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act of 2016,” would establish grants awarded to state and local governments to provide opioid abuse services. The House and Senate will now move to a conference to negotiate the differences between their respective versions of the bill.
04.26.2016	A Kelton ISD student has been selected to represent the 13th Congressional District of Texas in the nationwide 2016 Congressional Art Competition. A drawing submitted by Felicia Butler, daughter of Jovita Butler of Shamrock, will be displayed in the hallways of the United States Capitol for an entire year. The drawing of a bison, entitled “Movement on the Plains,” was selected as the winning entry from the 13th District of Texas. "One of my inspirations stems from a field trip I took to the Wichita Mountains,” Felicia said of her winning artwork. “I was drawn to the flourishing nature and the wildlife that roamed so freely around me. The buffalo is an inspiration because it is a true American icon.” Winners of the competition are invited to Washington, D.C., for a special reception to honor the winners. Felicia plans to attend the event this year and visit with U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) while she is there. “We had many impressive pieces of art submitted by students from across our part of Texas for this year’s Congressional Art Competition,” Thornberry said. “Felicia’s piece of the bison is representative of the Texas panhandle and demonstrates a great deal of artistic talent. I am proud to have it represent our district in the Capitol building for the next year.” Felicia’s art teacher, Sarah Harless, said, “Felicia is a very talented young lady who is disciplined and dedicated to everything she does.” She continued, “I feel very blessed to be her art teacher.” Felicia is a senior at Kelton ISD. The Congressional Art Competition is a national competition that selects one piece of artwork from each of the 435 U.S. congressional districts and territories for a year-long exhibit in Washington, D.C. The annual contest for high school students has taken place since 1982.
04.13.2016	The Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) presented U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) with its highest annual award Tuesday during a ceremony on Capitol Hill. The Col. Arthur T. Marix Congressional Leadership Award was given to Thornberry, who serves as the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, for his strong leadership and support of the uniformed services community. “I am very grateful for this award, but the real credit belongs to the men and women who serve or have served and their families,” Thornberry said. “Our job is to support them, and I appreciate MOAA’s role in advocating for our people and our national security.” MOAA is the nation's largest and most influential association of active duty, National Guard, Reserve, retired and former military officers and their families and survivors. The association annually recognizes individuals or organizations that strongly support service members and their families. “As chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, Rep. Thornberry has shown consistent, strong leadership in supporting personnel, compensation and healthcare programs for the military community,” said retired Air Force General Tony Robertson, MOAA chairman of the board. “He is a true champion for those that wear and have worn the uniform, and their families.” Col. Arthur T. Marix founded MOAA in 1929 and served as the association's first president until 1944. MOAA has awarded the Marix award since 1997. You can download photos of the event by clicking here.
03.30.2016	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) along with Texas Republican Senators John Cornyn and Ted Cruz and 19 representatives today filed an amicus brief in the case of Aderholt et al. v. Bureau of Land Management et al. The lawsuit, which was filed on behalf of landowners along the Red River by the Texas Public Policy Foundation, seeks to protect the landowners’ property rights from claims by the federal government’s Bureau of Land Management (BLM). “There are two fronts in this fight against the federal government’s land grab along the Red River: one is the legislation that Sen. Cornyn and I have introduced, which passed the House in December, and the other is through the courts with this lawsuit,” Thornberry said. “Until there is a fair resolution in this matter, we will not let up in our efforts to assure landowners that their private property rights will be protected. This legal brief makes it clear that BLM has exceeded its authority under the law.” The dispute began in December 2013 when BLM announced it was beginning the process to revise its Resource Management Plan for lands it manages. The agency says there are thousands of acres along the Red River that may be considered public domain. The 116-mile stretch of land spans Wilbarger, Wichita, and Clay counties. Because of the uncertainty and questions about BLM’s claim, landowners are unable to sell, borrow against, or improve their land. Thornberry’s office has held multiple meetings, phone calls, and other correspondence with landowners, as well as local and state officials, to coordinate action. Last year, Thornberry introduced the “Red River Private Property Protection Act,” H.R. 2130, which passed the House in December by a vote of 253-177. Sen. Cornyn has introduced similar legislation in the Senate. Other plaintiffs in the lawsuit include Clay, Wichita, and Wilbarger counties and Clay County Sheriff Kenny Lemons. The State of Texas and the Texas General Land Office have each been granted motions to intervene in the lawsuit by a federal judge. Thornberry filed the amicus brief with the support of Sens. John Cornyn and Ted Cruz and Reps. Kevin Brady, Michael Burgess, John Carter, Mike Conaway, John Culberson, Blake Farenthold, Bill Flores, Louie Gohmert, Kay Granger, Jeb Hensarling, Sam Johnson, Kenny Marchant, Michael McCaul, Randy Neugebauer, Ted Poe, John Ratcliffe, Pete Sessions, Randy Weber, and Roger Williams. You can view a copy of the amicus brief clicking here. You can download video interview footage for news purposes on this issue by clicking here. You can view a backgrounder on this issue by clicking here.
03.29.2016	On Saturday, April 16, staff from the office of U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) will host the annual 13th District’s Service Academy Forum for high school students interested in pursuing an education at a United States Service Academy. The free, informational event will take place at the Texas Air and Space Museum in the Rick Husband Amarillo International Airport from 9:30 until 11:30 a.m. This forum is designed for potential nominees in their junior or senior year of high school. However, all local students of any age, parents, and counselors are invited to attend. No R.S.V.P. is required. To be eligible to attend an academy, students must be at least 17 years old, but not have passed the 23rd birthday by the entry date; must be a United States citizen; unmarried; and, have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. “Nominating students to a service academy is one of the highest privileges I have in Congress,” said Thornberry, who serves as the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. “We owe the deepest gratitude to the brave men and women who serve to protect our freedoms, and I applaud each and every student for their desire to answer this worthy calling.” At the event, representatives from the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Military Academy(West Point), and the U.S. Naval Academy will provide details on appointment procedures, daily life at the academies, and post-graduate military commitments, as well as answer any specific questions from the audience. Information about the U.S. Merchant Marine Academywill also be provided. Each applicant must receive a nomination from a member of Congress in order to be considered. As a member of Congress, Rep. Thornberry is allowed to nominate a limited number of students for each service academy per year. Applications for nominations must be submitted to the Congressman’s Amarillo office by December 1 of a student’s senior year. After reviewing the congressional nominations and student applications, the service academies will make final selections and offers of appointment in the spring. Accepted nominees will receive a free education, including tuition and room and board, in return for an agreement to serve as an officer in the military for a minimum of five years after graduation. For more information on the forum or the academy application process, please visit Rep. Thornberry’s website or Facebook page. AMARILLO SERVICE ACADEMY FORUM WHO: Representatives from Rep. Mac Thornberry’s Office Service Academy Representatives WHAT: U.S. Service Academy Forum for prospective students & parents WHEN: Saturday, April 16, 2016, from 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. CT WHERE: The Texas Air and Space Museum in the Rick Husband Amarillo Airport 10001 American Drive Amarillo, TX 79111
03.29.2016	On Saturday, April 2, staff from the office of U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) will host the annual 13th District’s Service Academy Forum for high school students interested in pursuing an education at a United States Service Academy. The free, informational event will take place at the Region 9 Education Service Center from 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. This forum is designed for potential nominees in their junior or senior year of high school. However, all local students of any age, parents, and counselors are invited to attend. No R.S.V.P. is required. To be eligible to attend an academy, students must be at least 17 years old, but not have passed the 23rd birthday by the entry date; must be a United States citizen; unmarried; and, have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. “Nominating students to a service academy is one of the highest privileges I have in Congress,” said Thornberry, who serves as the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. “We owe the deepest gratitude to the brave men and women who serve to protect our freedoms, and I applaud each and every student for their desire to answer this worthy calling.” At the event, representatives from the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Military Academy(West Point), and the U.S. Naval Academy will provide details on appointment procedures, daily life at the academies, and post-graduate military commitments, as well as answer any specific questions from the audience. Information about the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy will also be provided. Each applicant must receive a nomination from a member of Congress in order to be considered. As a member of Congress, Rep. Thornberry is allowed to nominate a limited number of students for each service academy per year. Applications for nominations must be submitted to the Congressman’s Wichita Falls office by December 1 of a student’s senior year. After reviewing the congressional nominations and student applications, the service academies will make final selections and offers of appointment in the spring. Accepted nominees will receive a free education, including tuition and room and board, in return for an agreement to serve as an officer in the military for a minimum of five years after graduation. For more information on the forum or the academy application process, please visit Rep. Thornberry’s website or Facebook page. WICHITA FALLS SERVICE ACADEMY FORUM WHO: Representatives from Rep. Mac Thornberry’s Office Service Academy Representatives WHAT: U.S. Service Academy Forum for prospective students & parents WHEN: Saturday, April 2, 2016, from 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. CT WHERE: Region 9 Education Service Center 301 Loop 11 Wichita Falls, TX 76306
03.28.2016	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) is now accepting entries for the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. The competition is open to all eligible high school students in the 13th Congressional District. The winner will have his or her art displayed in the United States Capitol for one year. The deadline for entries is April 18, 2016, and the winner will be announced April 25, 2016. “Every spring, I look forward to seeing the talent, creativity, and originality displayed by our high school artists,” said Thornberry. “Seeing our young people working hard and getting involved always makes me proud.” The winning student will be invited to participate in the exhibition’s opening celebration in Washington, D.C. this summer. Guidelines for submissions can be found at /art/. ###
03.22.2016	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement in response to the ISIS attacks in Brussels: "Today’s attacks in Brussels are yet another reminder of the evil that exists in this world and seeks to do us harm. The U.S. stands with Belgium, but we all can and should do more to defeat ISIS. That does not mean that the U.S. must solve all the problems of the world, but it does mean that America is a unique force for good. Without our leadership, the world is a more dangerous place. "Thankfully, we have the greatest military in the world standing ready for our defense. I will continue to do everything I can to support our military and see that it has the resources it needs to carry out its mission. I hope you all will continue to pray for our nation, for our men and women in uniform and their families, and for the many innocent people around the world who continue to suffer at the hands of such evil."
03.17.2016	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted today in support of a resolution, H. Res. 639, authorizing the Speaker to file a legal brief on behalf of the House of Representatives in support of a lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of President Obama’s 2014 executive actions on the deportation of some illegal immigrants. The lawsuit was filed by the State of Texas and 25 other states and will be heard by the Supreme Court this summer. The resolution passed the House by a vote of 234 to 186. “The importance of this lawsuit cannot be understated as it goes to the heart of the separation of powers in our constitutional system,” Thornberry said. “The Supreme Court should recognize that no president, whether Democrat or Republican, should have the power to circumvent Congress and undermine the rule of law.” "This is very important. If we’re going to maintain the founding principle of being a self-governing people, if we’re going to maintain the founding principle of government by consent of the governed, the legislative branch of government needs to be the one writing the laws—not the executive branch,” said Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) . In a ruling last year, the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals sided with the states in the lawsuit. The Court’s decision prevents the Obama Administration’s implementation of the executive actions while the matter makes its way through the legal system. In the lawsuit, the Supreme Court asked whether the President’s executive amnesty violates his duties under Article II, Section 3 of the Constitution to “take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed.” Thornberry said that is a question the House is uniquely qualified to answer, because under Article I, “all legislative Powers” are vested in Congress. H. Res. 639 authorizes Speaker Ryan to file a brief on behalf of the whole House defending Congress’s Article I powers. The decision to file these briefs is usually made by the House’s Bipartisan Legal Advisory Group, not the full body. This is the first time any speaker has taken this step. Thornberry voted last year in support of H.R. 240, the “Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act,” which prevents any funds from being used to carry out the President’s executive actions that grant deferred action to nearly five million illegal immigrants. The bill passed Congress and was signed into law by the President.
03.16.2016	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement after President Obama announced his nominee to the Supreme Court: “President Obama has a constitutional right to nominate anyone he wants to the Supreme Court, but only the Senate has the constitutional power to confirm a nominee. “Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) has clearly stated that the Senate will not consider anyone until the American people have spoken in this year’s presidential election.” ###
02.23.2016	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement about the White House's plan to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay (GTMO): “What the President submitted today is more press release than a plan. It is no substitute for the legally-required detainee plan the President must submit to Congress. That plan is now overdue. "Among the information missing is the proposed location for a new detention facility. More than seven years after he first ordered the detention center at GTMO closed, I find it telling that the White House has either failed to work out these important details or they know, but refuse to disclose them, to the American public. It suggests to me that the President is more interested in fulfilling a campaign promise at any cost, than in transparently addressing the risk associated with bringing terrorists to the United States. And this should be worrisome - after all, this is the President who has consistently underestimated the threat Islamic extremists pose to America. "I have pledged to give the President’s plan a fair hearing, but he makes it impossible to do so when he withholds critical details.”
02.13.2016	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement: “Sally and I offer our prayers and condolences to the family of Supreme Court Justice Scalia. His honorable and distinguished legal career and service on our nation's highest court has made a lasting contribution to our country.”
02.09.2016	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement after President Obama released his Fiscal Year 2017 budget: “The President released the final budget proposal of his Administration today, and it is as unrealistic as all of his previous proposals. He is a lame duck trying to stay relevant, but he knows that provisions like a $10 tax on every barrel of oil will never pass Congress. "This is another reminder of why this year's presidential election is so important: we need to put a conservative back in the White House that can work with Congress to get our country back on track.” You can download video interview footage for news purposes on this issue by clicking here.
01.12.2016	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement after President Obama’s State of the Union speech: "Tonight, it was clear that President Obama is content to spend his last year in office using the same rhetoric and following the same failed policies that have been such a disappointment and have resulted in a more dangerous world." ###
01.06.2016	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) today voted in support of H.R. 3762, the “Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Act of 2015,” which passed the House by a vote of 240-181 and the Senate by a vote of 52-47. The bill would decrease the federal deficit by $516 billion over the next 10 years, restrict funds to groups that perform voluntary abortions, and repeal major provisions of Obamacare. The legislation passed under a special procedure called 'reconciliation' that can be used once per congressional session to prevent filibusters in the Senate. This is the first time a bill that restricts funds to groups that perform voluntary abortions and also repeals major provisions of Obamacare has made it to President Obama’s desk. “I have and will continue to oppose using taxpayer dollars to support organizations that perform abortions," said Thornberry. "I voted against the health care bill when it passed Congress in 2010, and I have voted more than 50 times to send a bill to the President that repeals, dismantles, or stops funding for this plan.” The bill strips all federal funding, including Medicaid, from providers of elective abortions for one year while Congress completes its investigation into Planned Parenthood’s practices surrounding the selling of fetal tissue. The funding would be redirected to more than 9,000 women’s health care service providers that do not provide elective abortions. To dismantle Obamacare, the legislation also: • Decreases the deficit by $516 billion over the next 10 years; • Repeals the 40 Percent Excise Tax on High Cost Health Plan, or the “Cadillac Tax;” • Repeals the Medical Device Tax; • Repeals the Prevention and Public Health Fund, commonly known as the “Obamacare Slush Fund;” • Repeals the Auto-Enrollment Mandate; • Eliminates penalties for noncompliance with the Individual and Employer Mandates; • Eliminates government subsidies for people to purchase plans bought through the exchanges; • Repeals expansion of Medicaid adopted by 30 states; and • Repeals the over-the-counter medicine tax, prescription drug tax, an annual fee on health insurers, and tax on indoor tanning services. Click here to download video footage for news purposes of Mac answering questions about the bill.
01.05.2016	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s announced executive actions on gun control: “President Obama is wrong to think that we have crime and terrorism because there are not enough gun laws. “Gun control only affects law-abiding citizens, not criminals and terrorists who violate laws in carrying out their acts. “The President should focus on dealing with the real causes of crime at home and terrorism around the world rather than look for excuses to push his political agenda." Click here to watch Thornberry speak against Obama's executive actions on gun control.
12.18.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted this week in support of the “Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act of 2015” that passed the House by vote of 318-109 and the “Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016” that passed by a vote of 316-113. “There are a number of good and important provisions for the country and for our area in these bills,” said Thornberry. “While there are also a number of provisions that I support – and have voted for – that did not survive negotiations, many did.” Some of the chief provisions include: Providing essential funding for our military; Repealing the 40-year-old ban on exporting crude oil; Limiting EPA funding to its lowest level since 2008; Repealing the Country-of Origin-Labeling (COOL) law that threatened to harm the beef and other livestock industries; Extending and then phasing out the wind production tax credit; Delaying implementation of several provisions and taxes associated with Obamacare; and Strengthening security of the Visa Waiver Program. The PATH bill also made permanent over 20 tax provisions that Congress has been extending one year at a time, making it difficult for businesses and individuals to plan. These permanent deductions include: State and local sales tax deduction, which is important in states like Texas that do not have a state income tax; Section 179 expensing for small businesses; The Research and Development Tax Credit; Charitable deduction for contributions of food inventory; and Many other tax provisions were extended for two or five years. Finally, attached to the measure is a cybersecurity bill, similar to that recommended by the Cyber Security Task Force, which Thornberry chaired in 2011 and 2012. ###
12.09.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted yesterday in support of a bill that would deny visa waivers to those who have traveled to or are nationals of countries with significant terrorist activity and enhance the screening of all travelers from Visa Waiver Program (VWP) countries. The “Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015,” H.R. 158, passed the House by a vote of 407-19. “Many terrorist recruits and sympathizers who traveled to join ISIS have passports from countries that receive visa waivers and do not currently need a visa to enter the United States,” said Thornberry. “This bill would stop terrorists from exploiting this weakness in our border controls by requiring those traveling from countries deemed high-risk, even for business or tourism, to go through more stringent screenings and be approved for a visa. This bill would also improve intelligence sharing, which is key to stopping attacks.” H.R. 158 would require dual nationals and individuals who have traveled to certain nations or state sponsors of terror - including Syria, Iran, and Iraq - since March 1, 2011, to obtain a visa before traveling to the U.S. rather than entering through the VWP. The Secretary of Homeland Security would be able to designate additional countries of concern should threats arise and suspend a country from VWP if information-sharing requirements are not sufficiently met. The bill would also amend the “Immigration and Nationality Act” to include terrorism risk as a factor under the Electronic System for Travel Authorization that the Secretary of Homeland Security shall consider when determining whether a foreign national is eligible to travel to the U.S. Many VWP countries fail to screen travelers through INTERPOL, which maintains global databases of lost or stolen passports and information about travelers wanted by law enforcement agencies based on ties to terrorism and criminal activity. This bill would require VWP countries to check travelers against INTERPOL to determine if a traveler is wanted or if a fraudulent passport is being used. VWP countries would be required to issue their citizens fraud-resistant electronic passports containing biometric information, confirm such documents are legitimate when they are scanned upon travel, and notify INTERPOL within 24 hours of their citizens’ passport being reported missing. The VWP, created in 1986, currently allows citizens from all 38 participating countries who have a valid passport and pass security screenings to travel to the U.S. for up to 90 days for business or tourism without obtaining a visa. VWP countries must participate in security reviews every other year, offer reciprocal visa-free travel to U.S. citizens, and share counterterrorism and law enforcement information with the U.S. ###
12.09.2015	The “Red River Private Property Protection Act,” H.R. 2130, introduced by U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), today passed the House of Representatives. The bill, which passed by a vote of 253-177, would provide legal certainty to landowners by ending any questions about the federal government's ownership of disputed land along the Red River. “This is a big victory for the landowners along the Red River and also for property owners everywhere who deserve to know that the federal government cannot come in and take away what they own. I hope we can use this momentum to get the bill passed in the Senate and then signed into law by the President,” Thornberry said. “I will continue working with the landowners, local and state officials, and Senator Cornyn (R-TX) until this issue is resolved once and for all.” Many landowners and other public officials are alarmed that Bureau of Land Management (BLM) actions might result in disputed claims of ownership. Since concern first arose in December 2013, Thornberry’s office has held multiple meetings, phone calls, and other correspondence with landowners, as well as local and state officials, to coordinate action. Thornberry’s bill reflects the input they received by listening to landowners, the Texas General Land Office, and many others. “Texas families that have owned land along the Red River for generations deserve certainty that their property rights will be protected from overreach by the Obama Administration. Today’s vote is a positive step toward ensuring the federal government’s land claims are restrained and Texas landowner rights are protected,” Sen. Cornyn said. The legislation will provide legal certainty to property owners along the Red River by: Commissioning a survey of the entire 116-mile stretch of contested area along the Red River using the gradient boundary survey method developed and backed by the Supreme Court to find the proper boundary between private and federally owned land. Ordering that the survey be conducted within two years by Licensed State Land Surveyors and approved by the Texas General Land Office in consultation with The Commissioners of the Land Office in Oklahoma. Allowing landowners who hold the proper right, title, and/or interest in the contested area to appeal the determination of the survey to an administrative law judge. Landowners are also able to file for a modified Color-of-Title Act land patent request for public land that has been held in good faith and in peaceful adverse possession for $1.25 per acre. Preventing any contested land from being included in the Resource Management Plan outside of the provisions in the bill. Requiring the BLM to sell the remaining federal lands along the Red River at no less than market value and setting forth procedures for offering adjacent landowners the first rights of refusal. The bill also explicitly states that nothing in the Act shall be construed to modify the Red River Boundary Compact and that the interest of Texas and Oklahoma and the sovereignty rights of the federally recognized Indian tribes north of the South Bank boundary line will not be affected. You can download and use video of Mac speaking in support of his bill on the floor of the House of Representatives here.
12.03.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted today in support of the “North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act of 2015,” which includes a number of importantLiquefied Natural Gas (LNG), oil, and natural gas provisions and also enhances the security of the U.S. electric power grid. The bill,H.R. 8, passed the House by a vote of 249-174. The legislation would enhance emergency preparedness and use advanced technologies to address threats to the electric system while improving infrastructure vulnerabilities. It would also expedite the permitting process for LNG exports and natural gas pipelines and lift the ban on oil exports. “We must maximize our energy potential by modernizing our policies,” said Thornberry. “By promoting American energy exports to our allies, reducing unnecessary regulations, and reinforcing our energy infrastructure, we can grow our economy and ensure that our energy systems are sheltered from threats and rid of deficiencies.” H.R. 8 would address grid security, oil exports, and important permits and decisions for LNG exports and natural gas pipelines by: Repealing the crude oil export ban; Streamlining and imposingdeadlines onDepartment of Energy (DOE)LNG export permit decisions; Requiring the Interior Department to consider and approve applications for natural gas pipeline rights-of-way in the designated corridors on federally owned lands within one year; Requiring DOE to establish a Strategic Transformer Reserve to store large power transformers and mobile electric substations in strategic locations and a voluntary “Cyber Sense” program to identify and promote products intended to enhance the cybersecurity of the bulk-power system; Requiring electrical utilities to study and implement measures to increase the resilience to their infrastructure; and Requiring the Interior Department to consider and approve applications for natural gas pipeline rights-of-way in the designated corridors on federally owned lands within one year. ###
12.02.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted yesterday in support of two resolutions of disapproval for two Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations for new and existing power plants. S.J. Res 23 and 24 passed the House by votes of 235-188 and 242-180 respectively. “There is no question that these burdensome regulations will drive up costs for businesses and consumers alike,” said Thornberry. “We all want clear air and clean water, but with these rules, the administration is seeking to regulate where it could not legislate. They show that the President and his EPA have prioritized their anti-fossil fuel agenda above the reliability and affordability of electricity in America.” An October study released by the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) estimates that Texas retail energy prices could increase by as much as 18 percent by 2030 because of EPA regulations. The same study also estimates that Texas will have to retire about a quarter of its current coal-fired power plant capacity. ERCOT has reported that the Texas power grid “could see multiple unit retirements within a short time frame" leading to “periods of reduced generating reserves and increase the risk of emergency operations during periods of peak customer demand, such as the hottest days of summer.” Under the Congressional Review Act (CRA), Congress can pass a joint resolution within 60-days to nullify a specific agency rule. If a CRA joint resolution of disapproval is approved by the House and Senate and signed by the President, or if Congress overrides a presidential veto, the rule(s) at issue cannot go into effect or continue in effect. In October, EPA published two separate rules addressing carbon emissions from power plants. The first regulation set carbon dioxide standards for new and modified power plants, also known as the new source performance standards (NSPS). The second regulation, known as the Clean Power Plan (CPP), set carbon emission standards for existing power plants. S.J. Res. 23 nullifies the NSPS regulation, and S.J. Res. 24 nullifies the CPP regulation. Both resolutions passed the Senate by separate votes of 52-46 on Nov. 17, 2015. ###
11.25.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement after the President signed the FY16 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) into law. “The policies in the bill the President signed today are identical to the policies he vetoed on Oct. 22. The only difference is this bill authorizes $5 billion less for our military. Given recent events, we may all wish we had that $5 billion back to help protect the country." You can access a fact sheet with more information about the NDAA here. ###
11.19.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted today in support of a bill that would put a hold on Iraq and Syrian refugees entering the U.S. until multiple intelligence agencies verify that the individual is not a threat to American security. The “American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act,” H.R. 4038, passed the House by a vote of 289-137, which would override the President’s veto if replicated. The bill would add additional layers of security screening to require all three of the top national security chiefs – the directors of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and National Intelligence (DNI) and the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) – certify to Congress that each refugee is not a security threat to the U.S. This is not currently done. “We must be able to fully verify that these refugees pose no threat to our security. If that determination is not made then they shouldn’t enter the U.S.,” said Thornberry. “This bill would effectively halt the resettlement of refugees from Syria and Iraq by inserting additional security protocols to our current process.” Specifically, the bill would require: The FBI Director to certify the background investigation of each refugee; The FBI, DNI, and DHS verify that each refugee is not a security threat to the U.S.; The DHS Inspector General to independently assess the refugee approvals, ensuring that high-risk individuals do not slip through the cracks and provide an annual report to Congress detailing its findings; and The DHS Secretary to provide Congress with monthly reports of the number of applicants who were and weren’t certified. “It is also important to remember that even if we stopped the refugee program altogether, our safety from terrorist attacks would not be guaranteed,” Thornberry continued. “We must remain vigilant, and the best way to do that is with good intelligence. Unfortunately, over the past seven years, we have continually tied our own hands when it comes to gathering intelligence to identify and counter national security threats.” ###
11.05.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement after his defense bill, the “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016,” S. 1356, passed the House today by a vote of 370-58: “This year’s National Defense Authorization Act provides the resources our troops need for a strong national defense, and it does so in a fiscally-responsible way while also reforming the way the military does business and cares for the troops. “For 53 straight years, Congresses of both parties have passed and presidents of both parties have signed into law defense authorizations bills. The President should sign this bill and pledge to never again use our troops as political bargaining chips.” You can access a fact sheet with more information about the NDAA here. ###
10.23.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted today in support of a measure that would defund Planned Parenthood and other abortion-providing clinics and dismantle key provisions of Obamacare. The “Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act,” H.R. 3762, was passed using a special procedure known as “reconciliation” under which it cannot be filibustered in the Senate. The bill, which passed the House by a vote of 240-189, would strip all federal funding, including Medicaid, from providers of elective abortions for one year while Congress completes its investigations into Planned Parenthood’s practices surrounding the selling of fetal tissue. This funding would be redirected to more than 9,000 women’s health care service providers that do not provide elective abortions. “Life is precious, and the government should not force taxpayers to fund abortion providers,” said Thornberry. “The government should also not continue to force a bad healthcare plan on the American people, which is why this legislation repeals key provisions of Obamacare. This reconciliation bill is important because it will finally get a bill that protects life and fractures Obamacare to the President’s desk.” H.R. 3762 would cut more than $130 billion by repealing key provisions of Obamacare. Specifically, the bill: • Repeals the Individual Mandate; • Repeals the Employer Mandate; • Repeals the 40 Percent Excise Tax on High Cost Health Plan, or the “Cadillac Tax;” • Repeals the Medical Device Tax; • Repeals the Prevention and Public Health Fund, or the “Obamacare Slush Fund;” and • Repeals the Auto-Enrollment Mandate. Reconciliation is a special procedure that can be used once per congressional session. However, only certain types of provisions can be included. In the Senate, such a bill is filibuster-proof, requires only a simple majority (51 votes) to pass, and is limited to 20 hours of debate. Reconciliation is important because it is perhaps the only legislative means by which a Republican majority can send a bill to the President that repeals major provisions of Obamacare and defunds Planned Parenthood. ###
10.22.2015	The Texas Republican Delegation has endorsed Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) as the next Speaker of the House of Representatives. The Dean of the Texas Delegation, Congressman Joe Barton (R-TX), issued the following statement on behalf of the group: “Chairman Ryan met with the Texas Republican Delegation this morning to present his conservative vision for the House of Representatives and our nation. After hearing Chairman Ryan’s presentation, Members of the delegation were given time to ask any questions. The delegation then met without Chairman Ryan and reached a consensus to endorse him. Other Texans that considered running for Speaker have withdrawn their names and will support Chairman Ryan. “As Ways and Means Chairman and Budget Chairman, Paul Ryan has demonstrated an ability to lead and work with Texans on those committees and with the Texas delegation as a whole. We expect Chairman Ryan will continue to act in a Texas friendly manner as Speaker of the House.”
10.21.2015	The first National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to be passed during U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry’s (R-Clarendon) chairmanship of the House Armed Services Committee has been sent to President Obama’s desk. The President said he will veto the bipartisan bill because Congress has not agreed to increase funding for the IRS, the Environmental Protection Agency, and other domestic programs. The bill authorizes nearly $612 billion in spending for national defense. It includes a pay raise for the troops and funding for Sheppard Air Force Base, the Pantex Plant, and the V-22 Osprey program at Bell Helicopter’s Military Aircraft Assembly Center in Amarillo. The funding in the bill is consistent with the House Budget Resolution that balances the federal budget and reduces government spending by $5.5 trillion over the next 10 years. This morning, Thornberry participated in a press conference where he urged the President to sign the NDAA. A full transcript of his remarks is below. You can also download videos from CNN & C-SPAN of the press conference and a photo of Thornberry (photo credit: Nicholas Mikula) from last night’s NDAA House and Senate signing ceremony here: https://thornberry.box.com/s/dcvs95s6ynm4o215ff0ok6m6crf9l9ao “Among the headlines today is Bashar al-Assad going to Moscow to thank Mr. Putin for saving his regime; 22 Afghan policemen were murdered by the Taliban; an F-18 apparently crashed in England. Meanwhile, there are thousands of men and women strapping on their body armor, getting ready to go on patrol or fly their aircraft to protect the United States. “It would be absolutely wrong for us to play political games with them and with the support that they depend upon. As has been mentioned, included in this bill is a reform for military retirement. Today, 83 percent of the people who serve in the military walk away with no retirement. “This bill changes that. There are reforms that make sure that if someone is on a [pharmaceutical] drug when they are in the military to treat post- traumatic stress or pain management, they can stay on the same drug when they move to the V.A. system. That's not happening today. “There are a number of reforms that are beginning to improve the way that the Pentagon buys goods and services. All of that goes away with a veto of this bill. It would be unprecedented. It is time for the president to put our troops and national security first. He should sign the bill.”
10.09.2015	Acting to grow the American economy, create more jobs, and help ensure the nation’s energy security, the U.S. House passed a bill today to repeal the crude oil export ban, H.R. 702. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) is a cosponsor of H.R. 702 and voted in favor of the bill, which passed by a vote of 261 to 159. “Removing this ban on oil exports will benefit our local oil workers and producers. This bill is a commonsense move to get rid of an outdated law,” Thornberry said. “Creating jobs in the oil field and lowering prices at the gas pump is simply good energy policy.” According to IHS, lifting the restrictions on exports would support nearly one million additional jobs and increase domestic crude oil prices and production. The non-partisan energy analysis company also estimates that “it would cut the U.S. oil import bill by an average of $67 billion per year” and increase the average disposable income per household by $391 in 2018. In addition, IHS estimates that removing the oil export restriction could reduce U.S. gasoline prices by as much as 12 cents per gallon. The U.S. is the only major oil producer in the world that does not allow crude oil exports. The ban on crude oil was enacted in 1973 after the Arab oil embargo. The bill has been endorsed by organizations that include the American Petroleum Institute, America’s Natural Gas Alliance, the Western Energy Alliance, the U.S. Oil & Gas Association, the Petroleum Equipment & Services Association, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and the Business Roundtable. ###
10.02.2015	More than 40 Panhandle veterans, family members, and volunteers traveled to Washington this week to tour Congress and the memorials that commemorate their service and sacrifice. U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) hosted the group today for a special tour of the Capitol where he had the opportunity to speak to them on the Floor of the House. “I consider it a great privilege each year to meet with veterans from our area that visit Washington as a part of the Texas Panhandle Honor Flight,” Thornberry said. “It’s an opportunity for us to show them around the very democratic institutions that they sacrificed so much to protect. We were happy to welcome these veterans, their family members, and many other wonderful volunteers who made the Flight possible.” The Texas Panhandle Honor Flight is organized and sponsored by the local chapter of America Supports You Texas (ASYT), which is headquartered in Amarillo. The Honor Flights are part of ASYT’s efforts to promote awareness and support for our U.S. military service members and veterans, as well as their families. The group also organizes care boxes for active duty personnel, sponsors an annual Armed Forces Day banquet, and organizes welcome home and return to duty rallies. “Organizations like America Supports You Texas help remind us that our country remains strong because of what these veterans sacrificed. Groups like this play an important role in ensuring our veterans receive our deepest gratitude and thanks,” Thornberry says. Honor Flight is a national program that began a decade ago as a project to offer World War II veterans all-expenses-paid overnight trips to Washington, D.C., to see the National World War II Memorial. Today, these flights honor America’s veterans by paying for and transporting groups of veterans from all over the country to see the memorials designed and erected to honor their service. ### Click here to download photos from the Texas Panhandle Honor Flight Capitol visit
10.01.2015	The first National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to be passed during U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry’s (R-Clarendon) chairmanship of the House Armed Services Committee is headed to the Senate for approval and then to the President’s desk. The bill includes funding for Sheppard Air Force Base, the Pantex Plant, and the V-22 Osprey program at Bell Helicopter’s Military Aircraft Assembly Center in Amarillo. The bipartisan legislation passed the House 270-156. “This year’s NDAA provides the resources our troops need for a strong national defense and does so in a fiscally-responsible way, while also reforming the way the military does business and cares for the troops,” said Thornberry. The bill authorizes nearly $612 billion in spending for national defense. The funding in the bill is consistent with the House Budget Resolution that balances the federal budget and reduces government spending by $5.5 trillion over the next 10 years. President Obama has threatened to veto the defense bill if Congress does not agree to increase federal spending on domestic programs, such as the Environmental Protection Agency. “It would be irresponsible for the President to veto this bill, especially while the Taliban is retaking Afghan cities, ISIS is marching across the Middle East, and Russia is on the ground in Ukraine and now in Syria,” Thornberry continued. “The men and women who are protecting America and American interests across the world deserve better from their Commander-in-Chief.” Locally, the bill authorizes funding for national security facilities and programs such as training missions at Sheppard Air Force Base in Wichita Falls. In addition, about $2.8 billion total is authorized for Bell’s V-22 Osprey and helicopter programs, including the procurement of 19 new Ospreys and 28 new AH-1Z / UH-1Y helicopters for the Marine Corps. Much of the work for those aircraft will be performed in Amarillo. The NDAA also empowers military commanders to permit a member of the Armed Forces to carry appropriate firearms, including personal firearms, at Department of Defense (DoD) installations, reserve centers, and recruiting centers by the end of the year. The legislation provides $8.8 billion in funding for nuclear weapons activities—like those performed at Pantex. To help address the severe backlog of maintenance on physical infrastructure across the National Nuclear Security Agency, the bill authorizes $50 million specifically for recapitalization projects and an additional $25 million for preventive maintenance. Another $645 million for defense nuclear security with an additional $12 million to reinvigorate efforts to recapitalize aging physical security infrastructure and $234 million to provide for much needed efforts to improve emergency response at Pantex and other nuclear weapons facilities. The NDAA implements major reforms to the DoD's broken acquisition system to make it more efficient and agile. Thornberry, Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John McCain (R-AZ), and other members of the Armed Services Committees engaged with experts at the DoD, in the defense industry, and within Congress with a focus on reforming the DoD. A key compensation reform in the bill will provide a new retirement system for future military service members. The system would allow new service members to contribute to a portable 401(k)-style retirement plan with matching contributions from the government of up to five percent of basic pay. Eighty-three percent of service members leave the military before the current 20-year mark to qualify for retirement. Current members will have the option of being grandfathered into the old system or choosing the new system, and the provision would not affect veterans who have already retired. The bill reauthorizes bipartisan prohibitions against transferring Guantanamo Bay detainees to the U.S. and against building detention facilities in the U.S. Thornberry has expressed serious concerns about the circumstances of those transfers and of former detainees returning to the battlefield. Local Highlights: The bill supports a 1.3 percent pay raise for the military. BRAC - Prohibits another round of base closings. Pantex - Increases funding for the National Nuclear Security Administration’s weapons activities. Bell - Includes about $2.8 billion total for Bell V-22 and helicopter programs, much of which is done in Amarillo, including procurement of 19 new Ospreys and 28 new helicopters for the Marine Corps. Sheppard AFB - Includes funding for activities at Sheppard AFB in the personnel account and operations and maintenance account. Health care – Requires the DoD and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide the same medications to treat psychiatric conditions, sleep disorders, and pain management to ensure veterans continue to receive the same medications when they leave the military service and enter the VA health system. You can access a fact sheet with more information about the NDAA here. ###
09.30.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement after voting for a government funding measure that passed the House by a vote of 277-151 and the Senate 78-20: "This afternoon, I voted in support of a temporary funding bill that will allow the federal government to meet its fiscal responsibilities – including funding our military and pay for the troops. We simply cannot ask men and women to risk their lives on behalf of our nation all around the world while they wonder whether they will get their paychecks and be able to pay their bills. I also voted in support of several measures in recent weeks that would strip federal funding from Planned Parenthood, and we will continue to work on legislative options that can get such legislation to the President’s desk." ###
09.25.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement on Speaker John Boehner's (R-OH) resignation: “As Speaker, John Boehner has made our nation’s security a top priority and been the key leader in Congress working to ensure that America and American interests are protected. I am very grateful for his service to our country.”
09.18.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted today in support of two pro-life bills, one that would strip all federal funding from Planned Parenthood and the other would ensure babies born alive following an abortion receive the proper care provided to other newborns. “The possibility that someone would intentionally take the life of a baby in order to sell his or her organs and tissue is abhorrent,” said Thornberry. “The investigations into these practices now underway must be vigorously pursued. In the meantime, we have to make sure that no taxpayer funds are in any way involved.” The “Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015,” H.R. 3134, which passed the House by a vote of 241-187, would prohibit any federal funds from going to Planned Parenthood and its abortion-providing affiliates for one year while Congress completes its investigations into the organization’s practices surrounding the selling of fetal tissue. The prohibition would include funding under the Medicaid program, which is the source of most of the federal funds the organization receives. Those funds will be redirected to Federally Qualified Health Centers that provide women’s health care services and do not provide abortions. These health centers outnumber Planned Parenthood clinics and provide important health services to women, especially those living in medically underserved areas. The “Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act,” H.R. 3504, which passed by a vote of 248-177, would criminalize the killing of an infant born alive during an abortion. These infants would receive the same protections and health care as a child born alive at the same gestational age. Failure to render such care would result in criminal charges. “These bills need to end up on the President’s desk because every life, especially the most innocent, should be protected,” said Thornberry.
09.14.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) hosted Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-California) in Amarillo to discuss national security and the contributions the Panhandle makes to this effort. As part of their trip, the congressmen toured the Pantex Plant and Bell Helicopter facilities today. At Pantex, Thornberry and McCarthy viewed the locations where nuclear weapons are assembled, disassembled, and stored. It is home to the only such facility in the United States. During their visit to Bell Helicopter, the congressmen were updated on Bell’s V-22 and commercial programs and were able to observe the V-22’s final assembly facility. “Our area makes significant contributions to our nation’s security. I’m glad that Leader McCarthy was able to visit these facilities and meet with the folks who work hard to keep our country safe. The first job of the federal government is to protect its citizens, and I’m proud to represent an area that is dedicated to doing so,” Thornberry said. McCarthy is currently the second ranking Republican serving in the House of Representatives, and he represents California’s 23rd Congressional District. McCarthy was first elected to Congress in 2006. ###
09.10.2015	A bill to protect private property along the Red River was approved by the U.S. House Natural Resources Committee Thursday, moving the legislation one step closer toward full consideration by the House of Representatives. The “Red River Private Property Protection Act,” H.R. 2130, introduced by U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), seeks to settle all federal ownership claims by providing legal certainty to landowners along the Red River. “I’m very pleased that the Natural Resources Committee agreed to consider my bill and passed it out of the Committee today. This is an important step toward our ultimate goal of getting this bill signed into law,” Thornberry said. “I will continue working with my colleagues in the House and Senator Cornyn (R-TX), who has introduced similar legislation in the Senate, to resolve this issue once and for all.” Many landowners and other public officials are alarmed that Bureau of Land Management (BLM) actions might result in disputed claims of ownership. Since concern first arose in December 2013, Thornberry’s office has held multiple meetings, phone calls, and other correspondence with landowners, as well as local and state officials, to coordinate action. Thornberry’s bill reflects the input they received by listening to landowners, the Texas General Land Office, and many others. The legislation will provide legal certainty to property owners along the Red River by: • Commissioning a survey of the entire 116-mile stretch of contested area along the Red River using the gradient boundary survey method developed and backed by the Supreme Court to find the proper boundary between private and federally owned land. • Ordering that the survey be conducted within 2 years by Licensed State Land Surveyors and approved by the Texas General Land Office in consultation with The Commissioners of the Land Office in Oklahoma. • Allowing landowners who hold the proper right, title, and/or interest in the contested area to appeal the determination of the survey to an administrative law judge. Landowners are also able to file for a modified Color-of-Title Act land patent request for public land that has been held in good faith and in peaceful adverse possession for $1.25 per acre. • Preventing any contested land from being included in the Resource Management Plan outside of the provisions in the bill. • Requiring the BLM to sell the remaining federal lands along the Red River at no less than market value and setting forth procedures for offering adjacent landowners the first rights of refusal. The bill also explicitly states that nothing in the Act shall be construed to modify the Red River Boundary Compact and that the interest of Texas and Oklahoma and the sovereignty rights of the federally recognized Indian tribes north of the South Bank boundary line will not be affected. ###
08.05.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) introduced legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives that will help law enforcement officials combat the growing problem of synthetic drugs. The “SALTS Act,” H.R. 1186, would make it easier for law enforcement officials to take action against synthetic drug manufacturers, distributors, and sellers by closing a loophole that makes it difficult to prosecute them because they label packages as “not intended for human consumption.” Current law allows the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) to prosecute the sale of drugs similar to controlled substances, but it does not cover substances with that label. Yet, the abusers who purchase these substances all know exactly what to do with them – ingest or snort them to get a dangerous and unpredictable high. “I have spoken with law enforcement, doctors, and educators from our area about increasing awareness of these synthetic drugs, which really are just poisons,” Thornberry said. “A big part of the problem is that young people and parents are not aware of the serious side effects of these poisons. These drugs invoke dangerous behavior and cause irreparable damage to the health of those who ingest them. I want to make sure our law enforcement agencies can keep up with the changing formulas and take down synthetic drug producers and sellers.” The bill was crafted with the feedback from local law enforcement and health officials who struggle to contain these drugs. Synthetic drugs – often called “K2,” “spice,” “bath salts,” or “synthetic marijuana” – are laced with man-made chemicals that mimic the effects of THC and amphetamines. The harmful effects of synthetic drugs include violent behavior and health issues that are sometimes fatal. TIME magazine featured the story of Ms. Roni Cannon, an Amarillo resident whose son died after ingesting K2 in 2013. In 2015, almost 5,000 exposures to synthetic drugs have been reported to poison control centers. That number has nearly doubled in the past year. ###
08.03.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement in response to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) final rule on regulating greenhouse gas emissions from existing power plants: “We have a responsibility to be good stewards of our environment, but that doesn’t mean that the federal government should be burdening the States with regulations that ultimately hurt consumers by driving up energy prices and threatening the reliability of the nation’s electric grid. “According to a study by IHS Energy, this latest regulatory overreach by the administration could lead to roughly one million fewer jobs in America and decrease the typical household’s annual disposable income by around $2,100, and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce estimates Texans may pay an additional $1.4 to $1.6 billion for electricity each year because of it. “Energy producers in our state have found responsible and commonsense ways to produce more energy from many sources. In fact, Texas reduced its energy-related carbon dioxide emissions by nine percent in the first decade of this century without any unnecessary prodding and poking from bureaucrats in President Obama’s EPA. “During that same period of time, we have seen an economic boom thanks to our energy sector, and our state has provided a model for what our national energy policies should look like. Instead of over-regulating and over-taxing, Texas has fostered a pro-growth economic environment. The federal government should be doing everything it can to replicate what Texas has done. “I recently voted for and the House passed legislation that would stop this EPA regulation. H.R. 2042, the 'Ratepayer Protection Act of 2015,' would delay the compliance date of greenhouse gas emission standards for existing power plants until all judicial and administrative reviews are final and no longer eligible for appeal. The bill would also allow states to opt out of compliance if the governor determines that the rule would have an adverse effect on rate-payers or have a significant adverse effect on the reliability of the state's electricity system." ###
07.30.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted yesterday in support of a bill that included a provision to fill shortfalls in the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) budget and make significant changes to the Choice Program. The “Surface Transportation and Veterans Health Care Choice Improvement Act of 2015,” H.R. 3236, passed the House by a vote of 385-34. Hospital operations were at risk unless the VA was authorized to transfer funds to pay for non-VA care from the Choice Program, which is underutilized due to its restrictive eligibility criteria. Specifically, the provision authorizes the VA to use $3.35 billion from the Choice Program to pay for non-VA care from May 1 to Oct. 1, 2015, and requires reports every 14 days on how these funds are used and for what programs. “This bill provides the VA flexibility to move funds that will ensure that facilities remain open, as well as improve access to quality care,” said Thornberry. “These men and women have put their lives on the line to keep our country safe, and they deserve our best in return. Meeting our commitments to our veterans is essential.” In addition to authorizing these funds, the provision would expand veterans' access to the current Choice Program and require the VA to devise a plan consolidating all non-VA provider programs into a single "Veterans Choice Program." Consolidating the non-VA programs would simplify the eligibility requirements, authorization processes, billing and reimbursement, and access to VA medical records. The bill would expand the Choice Program by: Eliminating the requirement that veterans be enrolled by Aug. 1, 2014; Allowing more non-VA providers to participate; Waiving the 30-day wait time requirement for clinical necessity; Granting veterans who live within 40 miles of a VA community-based outpatient clinic (CBOC) to use the program for primary care if the CBOC does not have a full-time physician on staff. This bill also amends the tax code to exclude any employee with TRICARE or VA healthcare from the Affordable Care Act’s employer mandate. ###
07.23.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted today in support of a bill that would remove key federal funding from sanctuary cities that ignore federal immigration law. The “Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act,” H.R. 3009, passed the House by a vote of 241-179. The bill would block specific federal grants from cities that prevent law enforcement officials from gathering information or communicating with the Department of Homeland Security about an individual’s citizenship or immigration status. According to federal law, states and local governments cannot “prohibit, or in any way restrict,” law enforcement officials from sending or receiving such information, but some municipalities, known as “sanctuary cities,” do not comply with this statute. Thornberry has voted for three similar provisions regarding sanctuary cities in the past two years. “America is a nation of immigrants and a nation of laws. And while I believe our immigration system is broken and must be fixed, that does not mean state and local governments – including these so called ‘sanctuary cities’ – can ignore federal law,” said Thornberry. “Anyone who disagrees with current immigration law should work with Congress to pass new laws, and that includes the President.” The Department of Justice offers grants to cover some of the costs of incarcerating illegal immigrants and to provide personnel, training, and other support for criminal justice purposes. This bill would make the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program grants, Community Oriented Policing Services grants, and the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant unavailable to state and local governments that refuse to comply with current federal immigration law. ###
07.21.2015	Today, Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, called on President Obama to order flags flown at half staff in honor of the fallen service members in Chattanooga, TN: "Last week, America lost five service members. They did not fall on a foreign battlefield, but were deliberately targeted and cruelly murdered here at home. Today, Speaker Boehner has ordered the flags at the Capitol to be flown at half staff. He follows the Governors of Tennessee and other states who are doing the right thing to honor those casualties. The President should follow suit and order flags flown at half staff across the country, and he should do so immediately."
07.09.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted yesterday in support of a bill that would return many of the decision-making responsibilities in education back to the states by reauthorizing and reforming the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, currently known as No Child Left Behind (NCLB). The Student Success Act, H.R. 5, passed the House by a vote of 218-213. The bill would remove one-size-fits-all federal education standards, eliminate a number of federal mandates, empower local schools and officials, and enhance school accountability. It gives local schools more flexibility in using the federal funds they receive for the district’s individual needs. “Bureaucrats in Washington cannot replace the first-hand experience and understanding that our local teachers and parents have of the needs of students throughout our area,” said Thornberry. “Education standards should be determined by the individual states and school districts to ensure that the academic standards are best tailored to local schools and their students. Too often, Washington thinks it can and should dictate policy at all levels of government, and those policies often come at the expense of our communities and the American people.” The Student Success Act improves K-12 education by: Returning responsibility for measuring student and school performance to the states and school districts rather than using the current national system based on high stakes tests; Repealing more than 65 ineffective, duplicative, and unnecessary programs and replacing them with a Local Academic Flexible Grant for schools to better support students; Prohibiting the Secretary of Education from coercing states into adopting Common Core or any other common standards or assessments, as well as reining in the Secretary’s regulatory authority; and Strengthening existing efforts to improve student performance among targeted student populations, including English learners and homeless children. ###
07.08.2015	Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-TX), Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement on Army plans to reduce the force by 40,000 Soldiers. “People who believe the world is safer, that we can do with less defense spending and 40,000 fewer Soldiers, will take this as good news. I am not one of those people.” Planned reductions in Army force levels have been public for some time and are a result of hundreds of billions of dollars in defense cuts since President Obama took office. During this time, Army end strength has been reduced from 556,000 to this new low of 450,000. Personnel reductions are one of the few places where the military can achieve the savings mandated by defense cuts in the time required. The House Armed Services Committee has consistently warned about the size and pace of reductions in both end strength and defense spending and the negative impact on the country’s national security.
06.29.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) introduced the Federal Regulatory Certainty for Water Act, H.R. 2705, to clarify the definition of “navigable waters” in the Clean Water Act (CWA) to help protect private property owners from regulatory expansion by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps). “Those who live and work in our part of Texas, especially the farmers and ranchers, understand the importance of clean water and work hard to be good stewards of the environment, but we also understand that personal property and water rights are fundamental to the American way of life, a family’s business, and many people’s livelihoods,” said Thornberry. For decades, the courts and the EPA have grappled over the scope of the CWA, which simply defines “navigable waters” as “the waters of the United States, including the territorial seas.” In May 2015, the EPA and Corps finalized the “Waters of the United States” (WOTUS) rule, which could allow the regulation of almost any wet area on private land that has some arbitrary connection to a navigable body of water. In addition to repealing the misguided EPA/Corps WOTUS rule, Thornberry’s bill redefines “navigable waters” in the CWA as waters that are navigable-in-fact or are permanently flowing bodies of water that physically connect to navigable waters. H.R. 2705 also clarifies what types of waters are excluded from federal jurisdiction. “This Administration, the EPA in particular, has shown total disregard for the rights of private citizens. No landowner should have to worry about whether the federal government will get in the way of their business because of the bar ditch behind their house. Since 2013, I have introduced and the House has passed two bills that offered simple, commonsense ways to protect private landowners from regulatory overreach by the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers,” said Thornberry. Thornberry has recently supported and the House has passed three other bills that would help rein in EPA regulatory overreach: H.R. 2028, the “FY 2016 Energy and Water Appropriations bill,” with a provision that would bar the Corps from developing, adopting, implementing, or enforcing any change to rules or guidance pertaining to the CWA definition of WOTUS. H.R. 1732, the “Regulatory Integrity Protection Act,” which would require the EPA and the Corps to develop a new WOTUS rule by consulting with state and local officials and taking into actual consideration the public comments on the 2014 proposal and supporting documents. H.R. 2042, the “Ratepayer Protection Act of 2015,” which would delay the compliance date of greenhouse gas (GHG) emission standards for existing power plants until all judicial and administrative reviews are final and no longer eligible for appeal. The bill would also allow states to opt out of compliance if the governor determines that the rule would have an adverse effect on rate-payers or have a significant adverse effect on the reliability of the state's electricity system.
06.25.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following comments today after the Supreme Court announced its decision on the health care law: “Today’s Supreme Court decision is deeply disappointing for the rule of law in this country. The Court has now twice rewritten sections of the Affordable Care Act to reflect what it thinks Congress meant to do. This decision is judges making law, and that is not the way our system is set up. "The Affordable Care Act has proven to be anything but affordable for the people who are seeing their insurance premiums rise. The House has voted more than 50 times to repeal, dismantle, or stop funding this disastrous law. We have real problems in our health care system, and there are more limited, commonsense solutions to help solve those problems.” ###
06.11.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) yesterday voted in favor of a bill to repeal mandatory country of origin labeling, also known as “COOL,” for beef, pork, and poultry. Thornberry was an original cosponsor of the Country of Origin Labeling Amendments Act of 2015 (H.R. 2393) that passed the House by a vote of 300 to 131. “After several years of implementation, this rule has done little more than increase costs and decrease profits for farmers, ranchers, and producers along the supply chain,” said Thornberry. “It has been ruled to be a trade violation against two important trading partners, Canada and Mexico.” COOL was implemented in 2008 as a mandatory marketing program. An economic study, mandated by the 2014 Farm Bill, found that it has had little effect on the demand for covered commodities. Yet, it has unnecessarily cost producers, packers, and processors hundreds of millions of dollars. In 2011, the World Trade Organization (WTO) ruled that the U.S. COOL requirement violated international trade obligations by discriminating against livestock from both Canada and Mexico, creating loses solely based on their origin. According to the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association, Canada and Mexico are two of the top three export destinations for U.S. beef, accounting for more than $2 billion in sales and nearly one-third of total U.S. beef exports. “If the U.S. does not comply with the WTO ruling, Canada and Mexico will have the authority to impose retaliatory tariffs on our agriculture and manufactured goods,” said Thornberry. “These tariffs won’t just affect our farmers and ranchers who spend their lives providing safe food for people all around the world. They have the potential to severely harm our entire economy.” Thornberry represents the 13th District of Texas, which encompasses the Texas Panhandle and parts of North Texas. The area is the largest cattle and pork-producing district in the State. His family has raised cattle for several generations. ###
05.27.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers finalized the “Waters of the United States” regulation, which may have serious consequences for private landowners: “My staff is conducting a thorough review of the final rule, but I have little confidence that the EPA has addressed the concerns that many people, businesses, and other organizations have raised with this particular regulation. Folks who live and work in our part of Texas, especially the farmers and ranchers, understand the importance of clean water and work hard to be good stewards of the land, but we also understand that personal property and water rights are fundamental to the American way of life, a family’s business, and many people’s livelihoods. “This Administration, the EPA in particular, has shown total disregard for the rights of private citizens. No landowner should have to worry about whether the federal government will get in the way of their business because of the bar ditch behind their house. Since 2013, I have introduced and the House has passed two bills that offered simple, commonsense ways to protect private landowners from regulatory overreach by the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers.” ###
05.22.2015	Ahead of Memorial Day, House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) has selected House Armed Services Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) to deliver the Weekly Republican Address. He will discuss the importance of honoring America’s men and women in uniform and making sure they have what they need to keep our country safe. “America is safer when our military is strong,” Thornberry said. “And our strength depends first and foremost on the men and women who serve. All Americans owe a debt to the men and women who have served our country, and especially to those who have given their lives. On Memorial Day, we offer our gratitude, but we must also remember to honor the ideals for which they sacrificed. Taking care of our troops and keeping America safe must be our top priority.” Last week, the House passed a national defense bill that increases pay and reforms some benefits for our troops. President Obama has threatened to veto the measure on account of his demands for more domestic spending. Thornberry is the first Texan of either party to serve as chairman of the Armed Services Committee and represents the 13th District of Texas. The Weekly Republican Address will be available nationwide and free for use starting Saturday, May 23 at 6:00 am ET on Speaker.gov and GOP.gov. ###
05.15.2015	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the annual defense policy bill that authorizes spending for military personnel, weapons systems, national security programs, and foreign military operations by a vote of 269 to 151. This is the first National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to be passed under local U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry’s (R-Clarendon) chairmanship of the House Armed Services Committee, and it includes funding for Sheppard Air Force Base, the Pantex Plant, and the V-22 Osprey program at Bell Helicopter’s Military Aircraft Assembly Center in Amarillo. The bill authorizes nearly $612 billion in spending for national defense. The funding in the bill is consistent with the House Budget Resolution that balances the federal budget and reduces government spending by $5.5 trillion over the next 10 years. “The first job of the federal government is to provide for the nation’s defense, and the threats we face today at home and abroad are more varied, widespread, and dangerous than at almost any other time in our history,” Thornberry said. “For too long, the American military has shouldered a disproportional amount of the mindless budget cuts under sequestration, and our military leaders have warned us of the serious consequences we will face if that continues. This year’s NDAA seeks to reverse that dangerous trend.” Locally, the bill also includes funding for national security facilities, including training missions at Sheppard Air Force base in Wichita Falls. In addition, it includes about $2.7 billion total for Bell’s V-22 Osprey and helicopter programs, including the procurement of 19 new Ospreys and 28 new AH-1Z / UH-1Y helicopters for the Marine Corps. Much of the work for those aircraft will be performed in Amarillo. It also provides $9.1 billion in funding for nuclear weapons activities—including those performed at Pantex. To help address the severe backlog of maintenance on physical infrastructure across the National Nuclear Security Agency, the bill provides $150 million specifically for recapitalization projects and an additional $24 million for preventative maintenance. The bill also includes $632 million for defense nuclear security and $245 million to accelerate much needed efforts to improve emergency response at Pantex and other nuclear weapons facilities. A key compensation reform in the bill will provide a new retirement system for future military service members. The system would allow new service members to contribute to a portable 401(k)-style retirement plan with matching contributions from the government of up to 5 percent of basic pay. Eighty-three percent of service members leave the military before the current 20-year mark to qualify for retirement. Current members will have the option of being grandfathered into the old system or choosing the new 401(k)-styled system, and the provision would not affect veterans who are already retired. The bill does not make any significant changes to current TRICARE benefits. “Many of the men and women who honorably serve our nation, often risking their lives in combat, do not receive any type of retirement benefit right now because of the current 20-year, all-or-nothing plan,” Thornberry said. “This reform would reflect the value of their service to the country, while also helping us to continue recruiting the best and the brightest for our Armed Forces.” The NDAA incorporates H.R. 955, the bipartisan legislation Thornberry introduced earlier this year to authorize assistance to the military and national security forces of Ukraine, which specifically includes defensive weapons to help the Ukrainians defend themselves from Russian-backed rebels. It also supports military operations in Afghanistan and against terrorist organizations like ISIS and al Qaeda. Legislation to reform the Department of Defense’s (DoD) broken acquisition system, H.R. 1597, is also incorporated into the defense authorization bill. Thornberry and other members of the Armed Services Committee engaged with experts at the DoD, in the defense industry, and within Congress for more than a year with a focus on reforming the DoD’s acquisition system to make it more agile. The bill reauthorizes the bipartisan prohibitions against transferring Guantanamo Bay detainees to the U.S. and against building detention facilities in the U.S. Since January of 2014, the Obama Administration has transferred 33 detainees to other countries. Thornberry has expressed serious concerns about the circumstances of those transfers and of former detainees returning to the battlefield. Local Highlights • Military Personnel and Pay: The bill supports a 2.3 percent pay raise for the military. • Joint Prescription Formulary: Creates a joint uniform formulary between the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs for medications to treat psychiatric conditions, sleep disorders, and pain management to ensure transition veterans continue to receive the best care when they leave military service. • BRAC: Prohibits another round of base closings. • Pantex: Increases funding for the National Nuclear Security Administration’s weapons activities including Pantex. The bill also provides $37.4 million specifically for recapitalization projects at Pantex. • Bell: Includes about $2.8 billion total for Bell V-22 and helicopter programs, much of which is done in Amarillo, including procurement of 19 new Ospreys and 28 new helicopters for the Marine Corps. • Sheppard AFB: Includes funding for activities at Sheppard AFB in the personnel account and operations and maintenance account. ###
05.13.2015	U.S. Congressmen Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) and Rick Larsen (D-Everett) today introduced “The Rural Veterans Travel Enhancement Act of 2015,” H.R. 2291, that would reauthorize the Veterans Transportation Services program for five years and provide mileage reimbursement for combat veterans traveling to receive counseling and care from veterans centers. “We have a responsibility to the men and women who sacrificed so much for our nation with their selfless service,” said Thornberry, the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. “We will never know the full extent of their sacrifice, but we would not know freedom without it. That is why programs and legislation like this one are so important in our work to better serve them.” The Veterans Transportation Service program provides funding to local VA facilities to hire transportation coordinators and purchase vehicles that VA-trained staff can use to connect more veterans to the care they need. Amarillo transported 6,047 Veterans to appointments between Oct 1, 2014 and March 31, 2015. The program is a cost-effective way to help veterans access health care by saving money on ambulance costs and mileage reimbursements. “Access to health care does not just mean having enough doctors. It means making sure veterans can get to appointments with their doctors. My bill will help break down travel barriers so veterans don’t have to wonder how they will get to their next healthcare appointment,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. The Rural Veterans Travel Enhancement Act will: Reauthorize for five years the Veterans Transportation Services program; Provide mileage reimbursement for veterans traveling to receive counseling and care from Veterans Centers like the one in Amarillo; and Reauthorize a grant program to provide transportation options to highly rural veterans seeking medical care. A companion bill in the Senate was introduced by Sens. Jon Tester (R-MT) and Patty Murray (D-WA). Thornberry’s office is available to assist veterans who need help accessing resources. Call his Amarillo office at (806) 371-8844.
05.12.2015	A Caprock High School student has been selected to represent the 13th Congressional District of Texas in the nationwide 2015 Congressional Art Contest. A pastel portrait submitted by Michael Alvarez, son of Olivia Alvarado of Amarillo, will be displayed in the hallways of the United States Capitol for an entire year. The portrait of his grandfather, entitled “Tito,” was selected as the winning entry from the 13th District of Texas. "My grandfather has been an instrumental figure throughout my life,” Michael said of his winning artwork. “I find that when I have a connection with the person I am describing in my artwork, a spiritual experience is made visual. Portraying him through my art was an honor.” Winners of the competition are invited to Washington, D.C., for a special reception to honor the winners. Michael and his mother, Olivia, plan to attend the event this year and visit with U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry while they are there. “We had many impressive pieces of art submitted by students from across our part of Texas for this year’s Congressional Art Competition,” Thornberry said. “Michael’s portrait of his grandfather demonstrates a great deal of artistic talent. I am proud to have it represent our district in the Capitol building for the next year.” Michael’s art teacher, Shawn Kennedy, said, “Michael is an incredibly talented artist.” He continued, “The level of virtuosity he emanates upon his portraits are exceptional and far beyond a typical advanced student. His work captures the essence of the individual in a manner equivocal to any professional.” Michael is a senior at Caprock High School. The Congressional Art Contest is a national competition that selects one piece of artwork from all 435 U.S. congressional districts and territories for a year-long exhibit in Washington, D.C. The annual contest for high school students has taken place since 1982. To download a high resolution copy of the photo, please click here: Tito by Michael Alvarez
04.30.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) and U.S. Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX) introduced legislation today in the U.S. House and Senate, H.R. 2130 and S. 1153 respectively, to protect private property rights along the Red River from federal ownership claims. By providing legal certainty to landowners, the Red River Private Property Protection Act seeks to end questions about the federal government's ownership of disputed land along the Red River. “Private landowners deserve absolute clarity from the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and a fair resolution to this issue. Until that happens, we will not let up in our efforts to assure landowners that their private property rights along the Red River will be protected,” Thornberry said. “Our bills should be a signal that Republicans in the House and Senate will continue to fight the federal government’s intrusion into people’s private property. This type of overreach seems to be happening more often, but we will fight it every step of the way.” Many landowners and other public officials are alarmed that BLM actions might result in disputed claims of ownership. Since concern first arose in December 2013, Thornberry’s and Cornyn’s offices have held multiple meetings, phone calls, and other correspondence with landowners, as well as local and state officials, to coordinate action. The legislation they introduced this week has been adjusted from the bill they introduced in the last session of Congress. The new legislation reflects the input they received by listening to landowners, the Texas General Land Office, and many others. “Many of these affected Texans have owned land along the Red River for generations, but are now caught up in the confusion and clouded titles due to the BLM’s claims. This commonsense legislation establishes a process to resolve the uncertainty, and protects these taxpayers’ property rights from improper federal claims,” Cornyn said. Thornberry and Cornyn have been pressing the case with BLM locally and with the agency’s leadership in Washington. In 2013, the agency said there are thousands of acres along the Red River on the border between Texas and Oklahoma that may be considered public domain. The stretch of land is located in Wilbarger, Wichita, and Clay counties. "Strong property rights are a cornerstone of our most basic freedoms. Unfortunately, BLM continues to seek control of privately-owned lands along the Red River. We must protect landowners from federal overreach, and I am proud to once again join Sen. Cornyn and Congressman Thornberry in introducing legislation that will prevent the federal government from unlawfully encroaching upon private property rights,” Sen. Cruz said. Original cosponsors of the bills include: Sen. Cruz, Reps. Carter, McCaul, and Gohmert. The legislation will provide legal certainty to property owners along the Red River by: • Commissioning a survey of the entire 116-mile stretch of contested area along the Red River using the gradient boundary survey method developed and backed by the Supreme Court to find the proper boundary between Texas and Oklahoma. • Ordering that the survey be conducted by Licensed State Land Surveyors chosen by the Texas General Land Office, and the final survey must ultimately be approved by the State. • Allowing landowners who hold the proper right, title, and/or interest in the contested area to appeal any further public domain claims by BLM through an Administrative Law Judge. • Preventing any contested land from being included in the Resource Management Plan until the survey is complete and private land is no longer subject to an appeal. • Requiring BLM to sell off the surface rights of the remaining publicly owned land at fair market value after the proper boundary line is located and settled. The bill also explicitly states that the interest of the states and the sovereignty rights of the federally recognized Indian tribes north of the Texas State boundary line will not be affected. ###
04.27.2015	Shanna Peeples, a high school English teacher at Palo Duro High School in Amarillo, TX, was named the 2015 National Teacher of the Year by the Council of Chief State School Officers. U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) said, “Ms. Peeples is the type of educator all parents want teaching our children. She is a shining example of the best of her profession. The fact that she has already been recognized as the Teacher of the Year for Texas and has now become the Teacher of the Year for the entire country makes everyone in our area – and especially our teachers and school systems – very proud.” In addition to teaching, Peeples mentors, coaches, and works with her colleagues to improve the lives of children who come from diverse backgrounds. As she travels the nation over the next year, she plans to emphasize effective teaching methods for students in poverty or facing extreme challenges. “The title of Teacher of the Year is a way for me to always talk about what teachers do for our kids. And I am exceedingly proud of the honor of representing men and women who pour themselves into this, the most important job there is,” said Peeples. On Wednesday, all of the State Teachers of the Year will be honored by President Barack Obama at the White House, and Peeples will be recognized as the National Teacher of the Year. Click here to download a photo of Peeples and Thornberry. ###
04.16.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted today in support of a bill that permanently repeals the death tax. The “Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015,” H.R. 1105, passed the House by a vote of 240-179. The death tax, also known as the inheritance tax or estate tax, requires families to turn over portions of an inheritance to the government. Small business owners, farmers, and ranchers are often particularly vulnerable to this tax, making it more difficult for future generations to build upon their family’s hard work. Please follow the this link to download video of Thornberry speaking on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of the legislation. You can use all or some of the video for news purposes. Thornberry has introduced or cosponsored a bill to repeal the death tax more than 20 times while serving in Congress. On the opening day of the 114th Congress this year, he filed the “Death Tax Repeal Act,” H.R. 173, which had 79 cosponsors and would permanently repeal the federal estate, gift, and generation-skipping taxes. He was a cosponsor of the bill that passed today, H.R. 1105, introduced by Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX).
04.15.2015	On Tax Day, U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) and U.S. Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX) introduced legislation to lessen the burden on small business owners and assist taxpayers in cutting through IRS red tape. The Small Business Taxpayer Bill of Rights Act of 2015 would lower compliance burdens for taxpayers, strengthen taxpayer protections, compensate taxpayers for IRS abuses, and improve taxpayer access to the U.S. Tax Court System. “All too often, the federal government, especially the IRS, places unnecessary burdens on our nation’s most important job producers: small businesses,” said Thornberry. “The laws and regulations that come out of Washington should always first do no harm, but they should also help grow our economy and American jobs. This bill provides hard working small business owners with important protections against an IRS that has been out of control for far too long.” “Tax Day serves as an annual reminder of the complexity and inefficiency of our federal tax system, and especially the burdens the IRS places on job-creating small businesses. This bill takes concrete steps towards easing that burden so the small businesses that drive our economy can get back to what they do best – innovating and creating opportunity across America,” said Cornyn. ###
04.15.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) is now accepting entries for the 2015 Congressional Art Competition. The competition is open to all eligible high school students in the 13th Congressional District. The winner will have their art displayed in the United States Capitol for one entire year. The deadline for entries is April 22, 2015. The winner will be announced May 6, 2015. “Every spring, I look forward to seeing the talent, creativity, and originality displayed by our high school artists,” said Thornberry. “Seeing our young people working hard and getting involved always makes me proud.” The winning student will be invited to participate in the exhibition’s opening celebration in Washington, D.C. this summer. Guidelines for submissions can be found at /art/.
04.01.2015	On Saturday, April 11, 2015, the office of U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) will host the annual 13th District’s Service Academy Forum for high-school students interested in pursuing an education at a United States Service Academy. The free, informational event will take place at the Texas Air and Space Museum in the Rick Husband Amarillo International Airport on Saturday, April 11, 2015, from 9:30 until 11:30 a.m. This forum is designed for potential nominees in their junior or senior year of high school. However, all local students of any age, parents, and counselors are invited to attend. No R.S.V.P. is required. To be eligible to attend an academy, students must be at least 17 years old, but not have passed the 23rd birthday by the entry date; must be a United States citizen; unmarried; and, have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. “Nominating students to a service academy is one of the highest privileges I have in Congress,” said Thornberry, who serves as the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. “We owe the deepest gratitude to the brave men and women who serve to protect our freedoms, and I applaud each and every student for their desire to answer this worthy calling.” At the event, representatives from the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, the U.S. Military Academy (West Point), and the U.S. Naval Academy will provide details on appointment procedures, daily life at the academies, and post-graduate military commitments, as well as answer any specific questions from the audience. Each applicant must receive a nomination from a member of Congress in order to be considered. As a member of Congress, Rep. Thornberry is allowed to nominate a limited number of students for each service academy per year. Applications for nominations must be submitted to the Congressman’s Amarillo office by December 1 of a student’s senior year. After reviewing the congressional nominations and student applications, the service academies will make final selections and offers of appointment in the spring. Accepted nominees will receive a free education, including tuition and room and board, in return for an agreement to serve as an officer in the military for a minimum of five years after graduation. For more information on the forum or the academy application process, please visit Rep. Thornberry’s website or Facebook page. AMARILLO SERVICE ACADEMY FORUM WHO: Representatives from Rep. Mac Thornberry’s Office Service Academy Representatives WHAT: U.S. Service Academy Forum for prospective students & parents WHEN: Saturday, April 11 from 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. CT WHERE: The Texas Air and Space Museum in the Rick Husband Amarillo Airport 10001 American Drive Amarillo, TX ###
03.27.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted Thursday in support of a bill that permanently repeals and replaces Medicare’s Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) system. The “H.R. 2” passed by a vote of 392-37. The bill permanently repeals the SGR and ensures a 5-year period of annual updates to transition to a new system that will be based more on rewarding provider performance. If Congress had failed to act, physicians who accept Medicare would have seen a 20 percent reduction in payments, ultimately resulting in fewer doctors who accept Medicare patients and limiting health care options for seniors who use Medicare. It also includes an extension for a number of Medicare payment programs important to our rural hospitals. “Congress has enacted 17 ‘patches’ to stop Medicare physician payment cuts since 2003. Trying to solve this problem with a short-term fix each year is like trying to heal a gunshot wound by putting new Band-Aids on it every so often,” Thornberry said. “These temporary fixes cost money each year and only continue a vicious cycle of uncertainty for doctors and their patients.” The SGR was created as a part of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 and was designed to control Medicare costs with a formula for the payments that Medicare providers receive. The SGR formula triggers across-the-board reductions in payments when overall physician costs exceed target expenditures. SGR does not account for efficiency, quality of care, or performance of the physicians, so all Medicare providers see reductions in payment regardless of the quality of care and service they provide patients. Since 2002, Congress has used a series of temporary fixes, known commonly as the “doc fix,” on a semi-annual basis to prevent the reduction in payments. “This legislation is a long-term solution to a very serious problem. Most importantly, it will provide doctors and patients more certainty,” said Thornberry. ###
03.25.2015	U.S. Congressman and Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) today introduced the “Agile Acquisition to Retain Technological Edge Act,” H.R. 1597, a bill to reform the Department of Defense’s (DOD) broken acquisition system. “We are releasing this bill one month ahead of the National Defense Authorization Act consideration because we want to get people’s feedback. We listened to a lot of folks as we drafted this bill, and we want to hear from them again as we work to make it law,” Thornberry said. “While this bill won’t fix all that is broken, it is a start.” Thornberry and other Members of the Armed Services Committee have engaged with experts at the DOD, in the defense industry, and within Congress for more than a year with a focus on reforming the DOD’s acquisition system. Thornberry said part of the motivation to act on this reform is out of budgetary concerns to make sure taxpayer dollars are being spent wisely. He also explained that dysfunction in the acquisition process is sapping America’s technological edge and robbing the U.S. military of agility in the face of multiplying threats. “The broken acquisition system is contributing to the loss of our military’s technological edge. I hope that by streamlining the process, improving accountability, and eliminating outdated regulations, we can start to get some of that edge back,” said Thornberry. “Ultimately, this acquisition reform must make the system more proactive, agile, transparent, and innovative.” You can find the bill text and more information about the reform effort here: Defense Reform. ###
03.25.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement after voting in support of a House Fiscal Year 2016 budget resolution that would balance the federal budget within 10 years through responsible entitlement reforms and reductions in mandatory spending. The resolution passed the House by a vote of 228-199: “This proposal balances the federal budget and reduces government spending by $5.5 trillion over the next 10 years. It is a plan that offers solutions to some of our nation’s most complex fiscal problems, but it also makes funding our national defense a priority. “The bottom line is that the nation’s defense is the first job of the federal government, and our military leaders have repeatedly warned us of the serious consequences we will face if these mindless defense budget cuts continue. Defense spending represents 16 percent of the federal budget but has shouldered 50 percent of the cuts under sequestration. If we really want to get our fiscal house in order, we have to target the real driver of our growing national debt – entitlement spending – and this budget does just that. “It makes commonsense reforms to entitlement programs like Medicaid and food stamps. It repeals Obamacare, and it shores up Medicare’s finances. The budget does all of these things without imposing new taxes. And equally as important, this budget proposal moves toward a simpler, flatter, and fairer tax code and would broaden the tax base by closing special interest loopholes. “The President and Democrats have shown that they have no intention of balancing the budget, but Republicans are committed to making serious reforms to and reductions of federal spending in order to grow the American economy and provide our children the same kind of opportunities that we had.” ###
03.20.2015	Wichita Falls, TX — On Saturday, March 28, the office of U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) will host the annual 13th District’s Service Academy Forum for high-school students interested in pursuing an education at a United States Service Academy. The free, informational event will take place at the Region 9 Education Service Center from 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. This forum is designed for potential nominees in their junior or senior year of high school. However, all local students of any age, parents, and counselors are invited to attend. No R.S.V.P. is required. To be eligible to attend an academy, students must be at least 17 years old, but not have passed the 23rd birthday by the entry date; must be a United States citizen; unmarried; and, have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. “Nominating students to a service academy is one of the highest privileges I have in Congress,” said Thornberry, who serves as the vice chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. “We owe the deepest gratitude to the brave men and women who serve to protect our freedoms, and I applaud each and every student for their desire to answer this worthy calling.” At the event, representatives from the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, the U.S. Military Academy (West Point), and the U.S. Naval Academy will provide details on appointment procedures, daily life at the academies, and post-graduate military commitments, as well as answer any specific questions from the audience. Each applicant must receive a nomination from a member of Congress in order to be considered. As a member of Congress, Rep. Thornberry is allowed to nominate a limited number of students for each service academy per year. Applications for nominations must be submitted to the Congressman’s Wichita Falls office by December 1 of a student’s senior year. After reviewing the congressional nominations and student applications, the service academies will make final selections and offers of appointment in the spring. Accepted nominees will receive a free education, including tuition and room and board, in return for an agreement to serve as an officer in the military for a minimum of five years after graduation. For more information on the forum or the academy application process, please visit Rep. Thornberry’s website or Facebook page. WICHITA FALLS SERVICE ACADEMY FORUM WHO: Representatives from Rep. Mac Thornberry’s Office Service Academy Representatives WHAT: U.S. Service Academy Forum for prospective students & parents WHEN: Saturday, March 28 from 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. CT WHERE: Region 9 Education Service Center 301 Loop 11 Wichita Falls, TX 76306
03.19.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted this week in support of two bills to rein in overly-aggressive regulations from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) by making the agency more transparent and accountable. Both bills passed with bipartisan support in the House. “People are sick and tired of regulations that hurt jobs and our economy, but what is more upsetting is that those regulations are often based on science and research that is never made available to the public,” said Rep. Thornberry. “These two bills seek to make the EPA more transparent and the bureaucrats who create these regulations more accountable to the American people. All of this is consistent with the transparency policy this President claims his administration operates on.” The “Secret Science Reform Act” (H.R. 1030), which passed by a vote of 241-175 Thursday, requires the EPA to base its regulations on the best available science that is publicly available. Currently, the EPA can create regulations based on science and research that is not made publicly available. “Many Americans are unaware that some of the EPA’s most expensive and burdensome regulations, such as its proposed ozone rules, are based on data that not even the EPA has seen. This bill ensures that the decisions that affect every American are based on independently-verified, unbiased scientific research, instead of on secret data that is hidden behind closed doors,” said House Science Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-TX) in a statement about the Secret Science Reform Act. The “EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act” (H.R. 1029), which passed by a vote of 236-181 Wednesday, would require nominees to the Science Advisory Board (SAB) to disclose financial relationships and interests -- including EPA grants, contracts or other financial assistance -- that are relevant to the board’s advisory activities. The bill would also require that at least 10 percent of the board’s membership come from state, local or tribal governments. “This is a good-government bill; it reflects the values we should uphold regardless of which side of the political aisle we are on. The bill recognizes the important role science should play in our policy debates and provides safeguards to give the public confidence in science. It restores the independent Science Advisory Board (SAB) as a defender of scientific integrity,” said House Science Committee Vice-Chairman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) in a statement about the bill. The bill would also bar the EPA administrator from appointing registered lobbyists to the board and members would be barred from participating in advisory activities that directly or indirectly review or evaluate their work, unless fully disclosed to the public and the work has been externally peer-reviewed. SAB was created in 1978 to provide independent expert advice to the EPA and Congress on scientific and technical information that may be used to justify federal regulations.
02.17.2015	Area business owners would benefit from recent action in Washington to make permanent the higher expensing levels for Section 179 of the tax code. If signed into law, this provision would allow farmers, ranchers and small business owners to write off up to $500,000 a year on equipment and other qualifying purchases. “We must provide our country’s small business owners, farmers, and ranchers with certainty when it comes to the taxes and regulations that affect them,” said Thornberry. “Making Section 179 permanent gives these hard-working folks more planning stability, which in return promotes a healthier economy.” Speaking to employees at Yellowhouse Machinery, Thornberry said that it is not fair or smart to make businesses operate on a year-to-year extension of key tax provisions and that this uncertainty makes it incredibly difficult for business owners to plan for the next year. “Our customers need to know now what they can expect for the 2015 tax year so they can plan. This is a crucial factor in helping them expand and grow,” said John Kritser, president of Yellowhouse Machinery. From 2010 through 2014, small businesses were allowed to write off up to $500,000 with a phase-out threshold of $2 million, although those levels have been set one year at a time. When these levels expired at the end of 2014, the expensing limit fell back to $25,000. H.R. 636, America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act of 2015, passed the House on Feb. 13 and would make the 2010 through 2014 levels permanent law. The bill now heads to the Senate. Yellowhouse Machinery has nine dealerships in Texas and Oklahoma, including Amarillo and Wichita Falls. You can view photos from today's event at Yellowhouse Machinery Co. by clicking here. # # #
02.13.2015	Area Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted Friday for the “America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act of 2015” to make the Section 179 Deduction of the Internal Revenue Code permanent, which will allow farmers, ranchers, and small business owners to write off, or expense, up to $500,000 a year on equipment purchases. The Bill, H.R. 636, passed the House by a vote of 272 to 142. “Congress is doing right by our nation’s small business owners, farmers, and ranchers any time we can provide them with more certainty about the taxes and regulations that will affect them,” said Thornberry. “Making the Section 179 Deduction permanent provides more planning stability and promotes production. Small businesses create 60 to 80 percent of all new jobs, and this bill makes it easier for them to expand their operations.” For 2008 and 2009, up to $250,000 of qualifying property could be expensed. From 2010 through 2014, small businesses were allowed to write off up to $500,000 with a phase-out threshold of $2 million, which Thornberry supported. When these levels expired at the end of 2014, the expensing limit fell to $25,000 with a phase-out threshold of $200,000. H.R. 636 seeks to make the 2010 through 2014 parameters permanent. # # #
02.12.2015	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) introduced a bill Wednesday, H.R. 905, to make the excise tax on Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) and diesel comparable on an energy-equivalent basis. Thornberry was joined by Rep. John Larson of Connecticut in introducing the “LNG Excise Tax Equalization Act of 2015” in the U.S. House of Representatives. Currently, the federal excise tax on LNG and diesel is set at 24.3 cents per gallon. Because it takes 1.7 gallons of LNG to produce the same amount of energy as a gallon of diesel fuel, LNG is taxed 70 percent higher than diesel. Thornberry’s bill would level the playing field by applying the excise tax to LNG and diesel based on the amount of energy each produces, which is how it is applied to Compressed Natural Gas and gasoline. “This bill provides a fair, market-centered solution to fix the tax disparity between diesel and LNG,” said Thornberry. “I think this change will encourage more private sector investment in LNG infrastructure and production, and that will have a real, positive effect on our economy.” Thornberry originally introduced the bill in 2009, and he has reintroduced the bill in each subsequent Congress. The Senate Committee on Finance passed several tax related bills Wednesday including one based on Thornberry’s bill. “Utilizing natural gas is critical to our energy independence, but current federal tax policy discourages investment in vehicles that run on this American fuel source. This common sense, bipartisan legislation levels the playing field for LNG trucks, further empowering companies to harness the benefits of clean, affordable, and domestic natural gas,” said Congressman Larson. To better understand the problem with the current excise tax, consider a diesel truck traveling 100,000 miles per year at 5 miles per gallon consumes 20,000 gallons of diesel fuel. An identical LNG truck would require 34,000 gallons of LNG to travel the same distance. While the LNG truck uses a cleaner, domestic form of fuel, it would pay an additional $3,402 per year in taxes for using LNG. The bill has received public support from Natural Gas Vehicles for America, American Gas Association, America’s Natural Gas Alliance, AGL Resources, Clean Energy Fuels, UPS, and others. ###
02.11.2015	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact:Jon Corley/Nicole Bender February 11, 2015 (202) 225-3706 Thornberry Comments on AUMF WASHINGTON- Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, today commented on the Authorization for the Use of Military Force proposed by the President: “ISIL is at war with the United States and the civilized world. The President has taken the right step by requesting an AUMF. I have concerns about how the proposal the President has put forward will enable our military commanders to degrade and defeat ISIL. “In making his request months after military action against ISIL has started, the President must tell the American people why an AUMF is necessary. He must explain his strategy for success. He must detail where the resources will come from to achieve that success. He must explain how the military can operate within the restrictions he has suggested. And he should explain why he is seeking to tie his own hands by limiting authority that he’s already claimed. "He must also assure the American people and our allies around the world that his heart is in the fight. And the Congress must uphold its Constitutional obligations as a separate branch of government with vital responsibilities to defend the American people against a bitter enemy.” ### Click here to download an updated official photo of Rep. Mac Thornberry eNewsletter|Facebook|Twitter|Mac’s Blog|YouTube|Video Mailbox AMARILLO OFFICE 620 South Taylor Street, Suite 200 Amarillo, Texas 79101 T (806) 371-8844 F (806) 371-7044 WASHINGTON, DC OFFICE 2208 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 T (202) 225-3706 F (202) 225-3486 WICHITA FALLS OFFICE 2525 Kell Blvd., Suite 406 Wichita Falls, Texas 76308 T (940) 692-1700 F (940) 692-0539 UPDATE SUBSCRIPTION OPTIONS|PRIVACY POLICY|CONTACT US
02.04.2015	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following comments after the House voted to repeal the President’s health care law: “Yesterday, I voted again to fully repeal Obamacare. Since taking control of the House in 2011, Republicans have voted more than 50 times to repeal, dismantle, or stop funding for this disastrous law. “Many people are seeing higher insurance premiums, and I have personally talked with several doctors who have decided to retire or are considering retirement because of the law. The latest CBO estimate of the cost of Obamacare projects that it will add $1.28 trillion to our national deficit over the next ten years. “The costs continue to rise, and more than 27 million people are projected to remain uninsured. I hope the Senate will take up the bill we passed today and send it to President Obama’s desk.” # # #
02.03.2015	During a ceremony at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, area Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) joined fellow leaders from the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate to present the Congressional Gold Medal in honor of the men of the 1st Special Service Force. Mrs. Janet Smith and her husband, Ricky Smith, of Dumas attended the ceremony on behalf of her father, Albert G. Stanton, who was a member of the elite World War II unit. The Medal, first awarded to George Washington for his military courage during the Revolutionary War, is the nation’s highest civilian honor. Today’s Medal commemorates the members of the 1st Special Service Force, which Nazi troops called the “Devil’s Brigade,” and the vital role they played in the liberation of Europe and defeat of the Third Reich. Other members of the 1st Special Service Force from the area include: Ball, Willard C., Claude , TX; Bishop, Jesse, Amarillo, TX; Gatling, Glenn E., Mobeetie, TX; Manley, Joseph A., Nocona, TX; Melton, Buel L., Tulia, Texas; Menefee, James, Dumas, TX; Robertson, Chandos W., Twitty, Texas; Tunnell, Martin E., Electra, Texas; Wilson, Paul E., Wichita Falls, Texas; and York, Fredrick B., Wichita Falls, Texas. “Few men could be more deserving of this award than those of the 1st Special Service Force, and I am grateful that these men are now receiving the highest recognition for their incredible service to our nation,” Thornberry said. “While no amount of medals or honors will ever fully repay our debt to men like these, this Medal will help ensure that their bravery and service will be remembered and honored as an important piece of history.” The 1st Special Service Force was comprised of U.S. and Canadian troops, and it was formed at the direction of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, Prime Minister Winston Churchill, U.S. Army Chief of Staff General George Marshall, and Lord Louis Mountbatten. The special operations unit participated in numerous campaigns during World War II in France, Italy, and along the Rhineland. The legacy of the unit proudly lives on today in the special forces units of the U.S. and Canada. Congressional Gold Medals require broad bipartisan support. At least 290 members of the U.S. House of Representatives and 67 members of the Senate must cosponsor the legislation before any Congressional Gold Medal bill can be considered. Below, you can download a photo of Mr. and Mrs. Smith with Congressman Thornberry and a photo of Mr. Stanton as a young man in uniform. Janet, Ricky, and Mac Albert Stanton ###
01.20.2015	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following comments after the President's 2015 State of the Union address: “Tonight, the President had the opportunity to show leadership and promote unity as our nation faces complex challenges both at home and abroad. Instead, he added to our division. Rather than propose serious solutions to address our nation’s pressing needs, the President chose politics and partisan rhetoric that show very little regard for the overall good of the country. The President chose to roll out plans for steep tax hikes and so-called “free” community college that he knows will not pass the newly elected Congress. “The President said he understands the Commander-in-Chief’s duty to defend the United States of America, but I worry that he refuses to make the tough decisions. One of my gravest concerns is that the President routinely projects weakness and indecision when it comes to international affairs and national security. This course only instills doubt in our allies and emboldens our enemies. Our military is capable of adapting to the evolving, complicated threats around the world, but they require stronger leadership. Congress plays an important role in advancing our intelligence and military capabilities, and the President has the responsibility to see that these advancements are carried out. “Last year, I said that the country would be better off if the President focused on solving problems rather than scoring political points. This same sentiment holds true after his address tonight. Unfortunately, the lack of leadership from the President shows that he is not truly serious about solving real problems.” ###
01.09.2015	As one of the first major legislative moves in the new Congress, the House passed a bill providing congressional authorization of the Keystone XL Pipeline. Area Congressman Mac Thornberry voted to approve the measure, which passed 266 to 153. “There are no more excuses to block the building of the Keystone XL Pipeline. It is not rocket science; it is common sense. The House is acting yet again to get the project moving,” said Rep. Thornberry. “The only things standing in the way of building this pipeline, creating thousands of jobs, and gaining greater energy security are President Obama and radical environmentalists. And that is unacceptable,” he concluded. The Keystone XL Pipeline would transport Canadian oil sands crude extracted in Alberta, Canada, and crude produced from the Bakken region in North Dakota and Montana to a market hub in Nebraska for further delivery to Gulf Coast refineries. The project has bipartisan support in the House and Senate. It is also backed by a wide variety of business groups and some labor unions that argue the pipeline will create thousands of jobs, help jumpstart growth, and promote energy independence. Normally, the U.S. government does not have to approve such pipelines; however, since this pipeline connects the U.S. to Canada, the pipeline needs presidential approval. The House has voted several times to authorize the pipeline over the last four years. But unlike previous attempts, this bill will be sent to a Republican-controlled Senate, which is scheduled to take the bill up next week. Ahead of the House vote, Nebraska's highest court cleared the proposed route for the Keystone XL Pipeline. The ruling will let the Administration resume its almost-completed review of the Canada-to-Texas oil pipeline. They had suspended the process in April citing the ongoing court case. The Nebraska ruling puts additional pressure on the Obama Administration to act. ###
01.08.2015	Area Congressman Mac Thornberry filed his first bill of the 114th Congress on its opening day. The “Death Tax Repeal Act (H.R. 173)” will completely and permanently repeal the Federal estate, gift, and generation-skipping taxes. The bill already has garnered 36 cosponsors. “The death tax is fundamentally unfair for estates of any size,” said Thornberry. “Americans are required to pay taxes on their savings and incomes while they are alive. They should not have to do so at death as well, nor should their children and grandchildren have to bear these taxes.” The death tax, also known as an inheritance tax or estate tax, goes against some of the values Americans cherish most. The American people should be able to work hard, build, and save knowing that these assets will one day be passed on to their children and grandchildren. Particularly vulnerable to the death tax are small business owners, farmers, and ranchers who hope to pass personal business on to future generations but have to contend with a tax that may make that impossible. "Generations of ranching families have worked tirelessly and sacrificed to build successful operations that help feed the nation," said Joe Parker Jr., a local, third generation rancher and past Texas and Southwestern Cattle Raisers Association President. “Unfortunately, when it comes time to pass these hard-earned operations on to the next generation, if a rancher can't afford to pay this tax, they lose their property and their way of life. "Death should never be a taxable event. This is why I support Congressman Mac Thornberry's "Death Tax Repeal Act," which is critical to the future of the ranching industry," Parker concluded.
01.06.2015	Area Congressman Mac Thornberry officially became the Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee this afternoon. He is the first Texan--Republican or Democrat--to serve in this position. The Armed Services Committee has a responsibility to oversee the Pentagon, all military services, and all Department of Defense agencies. Each year it writes a defense authorization bill, which authorizes military spending and sets the policies for the Pentagon to follow. “I am only able to do this job because of the support from my family, people at home, and others who have encouraged me and prayed for me. For these things, I am grateful,” said Thornberry. “Serving as the Chairman of this committee is a great privilege and a tremendous responsibility. And now I am ready to get to work.” The 13th Congressional District of Texas has a strong national security tradition. In addition to thousands of active duty and retired military personnel, the area is home to Sheppard Air Force Base in Wichita Falls, as well as the Pantex Plant in Amarillo which is the nation’s only weapons assembly and disassembly facility. Amarillo is also home to Bell Helicopter, which assembles the V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft and makes upgrades to the Cobra and Huey helicopters used by the Armed Forces. Mac Thornberry welcomes guests to the Armed Services Committee room ###
12.12.2014	The U.S. House of Representatives passed a spending bill yesterday that provides funding for nearly all of the government’s operations through the end of the fiscal year, September 30, 2015. The exception is the Department of Homeland Security, which will receive funding for less than 90 days, expiring on February 27, 2015. Under the agreement, overall discretionary spending has been reduced by $165 billion since Fiscal Year 2010. The legislation passed with a bipartisan vote of 219 to 206. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted in favor of the bill. “This bill fulfills our constitutional responsibility to fund the government, while also reining in spending and executive and other federal overreach,” said Rep. Thornberry. “We have been able to reduce spending by $165 billion since 2010. We plan to build on this progress with additional meaningful cuts and changes when Congress returns in January with Republican majorities in the House and the Senate.” The bill funds important Department of Defense programs and projects, offers a pay raise for troops, and provides resources to help prepare for current and future threats. The defense portion of the bill also includes funding for local national security facilities, including missions at Sheppard Air Force base in Wichita Falls. In addition, it contains nearly $2.8 billion for Bell Helicopter’s V-22 and other aircraft programs, much of which is done in Amarillo. It also increases funding for nuclear weapons activities—much of which is performed at Pantex—to $8.2 billion. To help address the backlog of deferred maintenance on physical infrastructure in the nuclear weapons facilities, the agreement provides $37.4 million specifically for recapitalization projects at Pantex. The BLM Red River land dispute issue is addressed in the funding bill as well. It includes language to help ensure that the Bureau of Land Management defers any final decision-making regarding land use plans along the Red River in Texas until appropriate surveys have been conducted to determine ownership. Notably, the legislation provides no new funding for Obamacare; cuts $345.6 million from the Internal Revenue Service and $60 million from the Environmental Protection Agency; gives states the power to relax Obama Administration’s onerous school lunch rules; also, includes many provisions to rein in regulatory overreach. The bill also offers emergency funding to help combat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and to address the domestic and international Ebola crisis. Bill Highlights – Spending Cuts: Cuts total discretionary spending for the 5th year in a row, which reduces spending to levels lower than under George W. Bush in constant dollars. Limited Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Funding: Funds DHS only until Feb. 27, 2015, (less than 90 days) so the new Republican Congress can tackle the issue of Obama’s immigration action in February. Defense Spending: Funds our nation’s security, military readiness, support for our troops at home and abroad, and care for military families. It also includes emergency funds to pay for operations against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). • Military Personnel and Pay: The bill fully funds the pay raise for the military and provides $215 million above the request to fully fund the cost-of-living allowance for military retirees. • Pantex: Increases funding for the National Nuclear Security Administration’s weapons activities including Pantex. The bill also provides $37.4 million specifically for recapitalization projects at Pantex. • Bell: Includes about $2.8 billion total for Bell V-22 and helicopter programs, much of which is done in Amarillo, including procurement of 19 new Ospreys and 28 new helicopters for the Marine Corps. • Sheppard AFB: Includes funding for activities at Sheppard AFB in the personnel account and operations and maintenance account. Red River: Includes report language to help ensure that the Bureau of Land Management does not make any final decisions regarding land use plans along the Red River in Texas until appropriate surveys have been conducted to determine ownership. Internal Revenue Service (IRS): Cuts IRS funding by $345.6 million and includes extensive oversight requirements, bringing IRS funding to below FY 2008 levels. The bill also prohibits funding to target organizations for regulatory scrutiny based on their political beliefs. Restricts Clean Water Act (CWA): Restricts the application of the CWA in certain agricultural areas, including farm ponds and irrigation ditches. Environmental Protection Agency: Cuts EPA by $60 million and reduces its staffing to the lowest level since 1989. GIPSA: Includes restrictions on the Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration (GIPSA) from implementing regulations harmful to the livestock and poultry industry. Light Bulbs: Bans the Administration’s onerous “light bulb” standard. Obamacare: Provides no new funding for Obamacare and blocks the Obamacare slush fund. Cuts the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) by $10 million and continues restrictions on using taxpayer dollars to lobby for Obamacare. Department of Justice: Prohibits implementation of a potential Arms Trade Treaty and increases funding for the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) program by $6.5 million to $245 million. The HIDTA program was created by Congress to provide assistance to State law enforcement agencies in areas determined to be critical drug-trafficking regions in the United States. Recently, Randall and Potter County sheriffs have petitioned to be deemed a HIDTA area. Dodd-Frank: Amends the swaps “push-out” requirement included in the Dodd-Frank Financial Reform law. This regulation would require banks to separate, or push out, their derivatives business from the part of the institution that is federally insured. Opponents of the push out provision say it will be costly to financial institutions while not actually reducing risk to the financial system. Former Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has expressed opposition to the provision. Second Amendment: Prohibits funding for the EPA to regulate lead content in ammunition or fishing tackle. Department of Transportation (DOT): Suspends DOT regulations requiring two nights of rest after a week of driving for long-haul truckers. Export-Import Bank: Prohibit the Export-Import Bank and OPIC from blocking coal and other power-generation projects – helping to increase exports of U.S. goods and services. Abortion: Continues the ban on public funding for abortions in DC and a ban on using federal funding for federal prisoners. ###
12.05.2014	Congressman Mac Thornberry, the Chairman-elect of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following comments after President Obama nominated Ash Carter as the next Secretary of Defense: "I respect Ash Carter. He knows the Pentagon, and he knows that some reforms are essential if we are to meet the national security needs of the country. If confirmed, his challenge will be to resist the micromanagement of the White House staff that has plagued his three predecessors and to speak candidly to Congress and the American people on what is required to defend the country. The world is growing more dangerous, and strong, stable U.S. leadership is needed now more than ever." ###
12.04.2014	Mac Thornberry, the Chairman-elect of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following comments after the House passed the annual defense policy bill, which includes authorities and funding for the U.S. military, as well as other national security programs at the Department of Energy: “At the end of the day, the House passed a defense bill that is good for the country, good for our security and good for the men and women who serve in the Armed Services." LOCAL HIGHLIGHTS Funds V-22 Osprey program, as well as Huey and Cobra (UH-1Y/AH-1Z) helicopter programs at Bell Helicopter. Increases funding for recapitalizing deferred maintenance programs to help address the backlog of deferred maintenance on physical infrastructure in the nuclear weapons facilities, including Pantex. Authorizing funding for programs and missions at Sheppard Air Force Base. ###
11.24.2014	Congressman Mac Thornberry, who serves as Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following comments about the resignation of Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel: "This morning, Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel called to inform me that he is resigning his position. I respect and appreciate Secretary Hagel’s service to our country in a variety of capacities. I also appreciate the efforts he has made to cooperate with Congress on national security matters. I am concerned, however, with the national security policies of the Obama Administration and where they are taking us. Just a few days ago at the Reagan Defense Forum, former Secretaries of Defense Robert Gates and Leon Panetta were quite explicit in describing the micromanagement of our military by White House staffers and the damage it is doing to our security. Secretary Hagel’s successor must be a person who is strong enough to stand up against such attempts, who is willing to speak up for our men and women in uniform, and who is prepared to advocate for what it takes for them to succeed in the missions they are assigned. The increased dangers we are facing around the world are, in part, the result of weak defense policies by President Obama. A top priority for the new Congress will be to strengthen our defenses and reassure those who have doubts about America’s leadership." ###
11.21.2014	Congressman Mac Thornberry made the following statement on President Obama’s immigration executive order: “It is deeply disturbing that the President has chosen not to enforce the law of the land. Whatever one’s views on what the law should be – and I believe immigration laws are need of a major overhaul – the law must be respected and enforced. “A true leader would work with Congress to change the law, as past presidents have done. President Obama’s arrogant, go-it-alone attitude and this action undermine the rule of law and make it more difficult to solve other problems that face us. “Congress is looking at a variety of options to limit the damage done by this announcement and to reverse it.” ###
11.20.2014	A bill to protect private property along the Red River was approved by the House Resources Committee on Wednesday, moving the legislation one step closer toward full consideration by the House of Representatives. “We will not let up in our efforts to assure landowners that their private property along the Red River will be protected, and the fact that the Resources Committee approved the bill shows that we have both common sense and momentum on our side,” says Thornberry. The “Red River Private Property Protection Act (H.R. 4979)," introduced by area Congressman Mac Thornberry, seeks to settle all federal ownership claims by providing legal certainty to landowners along the Red River. It directs the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to relinquish federal claims and issue deeds to landowners who can prove ownership through official State and county records. It also prevents the BLM from including any privately owned acres in a current or future Resource Management Plan. The legislation was debated along with other proposals dealing with property rights that fall under the House Natural Resources Committee’s jurisdiction. The Chairman of the Committee, Rep. Doc Hastings (R-WA), acknowledged the land issue is “complicated” and that the bill continues to evolve. He also said, “Mr. Thornberry and his staff have logged many hours and undertaken extensive outreach in order to address and try to resolve this ownership dispute.” Finally, he called the bill’s mark up a “crucial benchmark to assist in the evolution of the bill and bring certainty to folks along the Red River in both Texas and Oklahoma.” Back in July, the Resources Committee held a hearing on the topic. As a part of the hearing, both Rep. Thornberry and a local Texas landowner whose land along the Red River has been called into question testified about the need to settle the issue. Additional information can be found on Congressman Thornberry’s website by clicking here.
11.18.2014	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Mac Thornberry has been chosen to chair the House Armed Services Committee for the 114th Congress. Thornberry is the first Texan – Republican or Democrat – ever selected to lead the Committee or its predecessors. “I am grateful for the opportunity and also mindful of the responsibility it entails,” Thornberry said. “The men and women who serve our nation in the military deserve the full support and backing of the Congress and of the country. Providing that support will be my top priority.” Thornberry was selected to serve as Chairman by the Steering Committee of the House Republican Conference. His selection is expected to be approved by a vote of all House Republicans tomorrow. The Armed Services Committee has a responsibility to oversee the Pentagon, all military services, and all Department of Defense agencies. Each year it writes a defense authorization bill, which authorizes military spending and sets the policies for the Pentagon to follow. The outgoing Chairman, Rep. Howard “Buck” McKeon (R-CA), said that the “Armed Services Committee will be in the most capable of hands with Chairman-select Thornberry, and so will our Armed Forces.” He continued, “During my four years as Chairman, I’ve come to rely on Mac as a policy expert, a gifted communicator, a trusted confidant, and a friend. He has skillfully helped our Committee as Vice-Chairman, and his national security smarts have earned the respect of both Congress and defense experts alike. But most importantly, Mac is a leader with a servant’s heart. His devotion and loyalty is, above all, to the men and women of our military. Thornberry’s counterpart in the Senate is Senator John McCain of Arizona, who will chair the Senate Armed Services Committee. “This opportunity is only possible because of the help and support I have received over the years from my family, employers and mentors, co-workers, my official and campaign staffs, and especially from the people of the 13th congressional District of Texas. I am extremely grateful for the confidence they have shown in me and will do my best to live up to the responsibilities of this position on their behalf.” Thornberry has deep experience in national security issues, having worked as a congressional staff member on defense issues and as a Deputy Assistant Secretary in the State Department in the Reagan Administration. He has served in Congress since 1995 and has been a member of the Armed Services Committee during his entire tenure. He has also served on the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence since 2004. “Our country faces a wide array of serious national security challenges from the renewed aggression of major powers to terrorism and attacks in cyberspace. Congress has an indispensable role to play in meeting those challenges, and the Committee will work to see that our country remains strong.”
10.17.2014	The Panhandle Chapter of Christians United for Israel has invited area Congressman Mac Thornberry to address the state of America’s national security on Tuesday, October 21, 2014, at St. Stephen United Methodist Church in Amarillo. The event begins at 6:30 p.m. with a presentation by the Congressman followed by a question and answer session. A media availability will take place in the Bride’s Room after the session. “The United States and Israel both face the threat of terrorism. Both our countries’ security are closely tied together,” said Thornberry. Thornberry serves as the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee and is a member of the Intelligence Committee. WHO: Area Pastors, representatives from Christians United for Israel, Congressman Mac Thornberry WHAT: National security discussion about state of America's national security and the unique relationship between the U.S. and Israel, the nation's strongest ally in the Middle East WHEN: October 21 at 6:30 p.m. CT. Media availability to follow presentation/discussion WHERE: St. Stephen United Methodist Church 4600 S. Western Amarillo, TX About Christians United for Israel Christians United for Israel (CUFI) is the largest pro-Israel organization in the United States and one of the leading Christian grassroots movements in the world. CUFI spans all fifty states and reaches millions with its message. Each year CUFI holds hundreds of pro-Israel events in cities around the country. And each July, thousands of pro-Israel Christians gather in Washington, D.C. to participate in the CUFI Washington Summit and make their voices heard in support of Israel and the Jewish people. CUFI’s mission is to provide a national association through which every pro-Israel church, parachurch organization, ministry or individual in America can speak and act with one voice in support of Israel. ###
10.10.2014	Forty Panhandle veterans traveled to the capital this week to visit the memorials and other sites that commemorate their service and sacrifice. Today, the group joined Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) for a special tour of the U.S. Capitol where he had the opportunity to speak to them on the Floor of the House. “Giving these veterans a tour of the Capitol is one of the highlights of my year,” says Rep. Thornberry. “To sit in a room with men and women who bravely put their lives on the line to protect our freedom and form of government is both humbling and inspiring. Each of them has shaped our history, defended our values, and each of them has a story worth hearing.” The Texas Panhandle Honor Flight is organized and sponsored by the local chapter of America Supports You Texas (ASYT), which is headquartered in Amarillo. The Honor Flights are part of ASYT’s efforts to promote awareness and support for our U.S. military service members and veterans, as well as their families. The group also organizes care boxes for active duty personnel, sponsors an annual Armed Forces Day banquet, and organizes welcome home and return to duty rallies. Among the Panhandle veterans on this trip, six served in World War II, eighteen served in Korea, and nine served in Vietnam. “I never dreamed I’d get to come to Washington and see what I’m getting to see,” says World War II Veteran Benjamin “Smitty” Smith from Tulia. “Organizations like America Supports You Texas help remind us that our country remains strong because of what these veterans sacrificed. Groups like this play an important role in ensuring our veterans receive our deepest gratitude and thanks,” Thornberry says. Honor Flight is a national program that began a decade ago as a project to offer World War II veterans all-expenses-paid overnight trips to Washington, D.C., to see the National World War II Memorial. Today, these flights honor America’s veterans by paying for and transporting groups of veterans from all over the country to see the memorials designed and erected to honor their service. ###
10.03.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Mac Thornberry, Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement on the security breaches under the U.S. Secret Service: "It was appropriate for the Director of the Secret Service to resign amidst the disturbing episodes that have come to light so far. As with the VA, however, just changing the person at the top is not enough to change the culture and professionalism of the whole organization. Much more will be required."​
10.02.2014	Area Congressman Mac Thornberry received a national award for his service to the country and America’s men and women in uniform on Tuesday, September 30, 2014. ThanksUSA, a non-profit organization providing scholarships to the children and spouses of U.S. servicemen and women, honored Thornberry with its Military Families Congressional Award at its annual “Treasure Our Troops Gala” in Washington, D.C. “I am honored to receive the ThanksUSA Military Families Congressional Award. Of course, the real credit goes to the exceptional men and women serving in our Armed Forces and their families who are also serving our nation,” said Thornberry who serves as the vice chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. “Since 2005, ThanksUSA has given nearly $10 million in educational and vocational scholarships to children and spouses of our active duty military. It is an important contribution to supporting those who sacrifice so much to enable our military to protect all of us.” ThanksUSA is a non-partisan, charitable effort to mobilize Americans of all ages to "thank" the men and women of the United States Armed Forces, by providing need-based college, technical and vocational school scholarships for the children and spouses of military men & women. Launched in 2006, ThanksUSA has provided scholarships for university, college and post-secondary vocational education to nearly 3,400 recipients totaling $10.3 million.Bob Okun, CEO of ThanksUSA, explained the group’s choice for the award, saying "Congressman Thornberry's commitment to military families is a beacon that inspires citizens to remember those who serve daily, many of them in harm's way, and the loved ones who sacrifice along with them. He personifies the mission of ThanksUSA: mobilizing all Americans to support the children and spouses of our men and women in uniform through the gift of education." Admiral Mike Mullen, USN (Ret.) who served as the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff from 2007 to 2011, introduced Congressman Thornberry saying, "He is the conscience of the people he represents, thoughtful, incisive and someone who really knows the business of governing." Army Chief of Staff General Ray Odierno served as the keynote speaker at the event. Sally and Mac Thornberry with General Ray Odierno Admiral Mullen and Rep. Thornberry present scholarship ###
09.23.2014	Congressman Mac Thornberry, Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement on the recent airstrikes against ISIL in Syria: "These airstrikes carried out by the U.S. and the other nations are a necessary first step in dealing with the terrorist threat of ISIL. Much more will be required by many nations because ISIL cannot be stopped by only bombing from the air. "We continue to be grateful for the dedicated professionals serving our nation in the military who are engaged in this effort. They will continue to be in my prayers."
09.17.2014	Congressman Mac Thornberry, Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement on the McKeon Amendment, authorizing the U.S. to train and equip Syrians to fight ISIL: “The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) presents a significant danger to the United States, our friends, and allies. They are the best-equipped, best-trained, and best-funded terrorist organization we have faced. In addition, they have thousands of fighters with Western passports who can easily travel to the U.S. and Europe. "This threat will not be eliminated solely from the air; it will require competent ground forces to defeat it. Allowing the military to train Syrians to be part of that ground force makes sense. The McKeon Amendment also places clear restrictions on the Administration’s authority, is time-limited, and strengthens Congress’s oversight by requiring detailed progress reports and stringent vetting of Syrian forces for training. "Of course, training Syrians is only one part of what must be a larger strategy. The responsibility rests with the President as Commander-in-Chief to implement that strategy, gather allies in the effort, and see that it works to protect the vital security interests of the United States." The McKeon Amendment passed the House by a vote of 273 to 156.
09.11.2014	Congressman Mac Thornberry, Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement in response to the President's address to the nation yesterday evening: “The President’s speech certainly had a different tone than his previous statements. It remains to be seen whether he has had a true change of heart or whether he is simply reacting to the polls. "I believe the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) poses a significant threat to the safety of Americans and to the security of the United States. Failing to take action will allow this danger to grow. "We are left with few good options in a very complex situation. Helping develop more capable ground forces in the region and supporting them with American airpower and intelligence makes sense. But it will take more than a speech and a few bombs to defeat this powerful terrorist threat. "In addition, the President has not yet provided a global strategy for dealing with terrorism. ISIL is not the only terrorist organization aiming to attack the United States. The potential for attacks from home-grown, self-radicalized individuals here in America also exists. The country needs a broader plan to protect Americans from a threat that is in many ways more serious today than on 9/11 thirteen years ago."
09.09.2014	As part of the ongoing effort to halt EPA regulatory overreach, the House passed a bill today that would prevent the agency and the Army Corps of Engineers from greatly expanding federal jurisdiction and waters covered under the Clean Water Act. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) is an original co-sponsor of the measure aimed at protecting farmers, ranchers, businesses, and landowners from further federal restrictions on their private property. “The Waters of the United States Regulatory Overreach Protection Act (H.R. 5078)" was approved by a bipartisan vote of 262 to 152. “Personal property and water rights are fundamental to the American way of life, a family’s business, and many people’s livelihoods,” said Thornberry. “No landowner should have to worry whether the federal government will get in the way of their business because of the bar ditch behind their house. That is why our bill to restrict the power of the EPA and ensure a transparent regulatory process is so important,” he continued. In March 2014, the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) proposed a rule that would expand regulation of the agriculture community, businesses, and other landowners under the Clean Water Act. According to the rule, only 56 specified activities would receive exemption from permitting requirements under the Clean Water Act, leaving in question the status of all other activities being subject to further EPA regulation. Many of the activities in question are normal functions of daily farming and ranching routines. In order to protect business, H.R. 5078 would invalidate the rule as well as prohibit the EPA from exerting more federal control over waters in the United States. The bill also requires the EPA and the Corps to seek state and local officials’ recommendations in developing regulatory proposals in the future. The Secretary of the Army and Administrator of the EPA must submit a report to Congress defining the waters under federal and state jurisdiction, according to the recommendations from state and local officials. Concerned that the federal government and the EPA was getting more and more aggressive in its attempts to expand its authority, Congressman Thornberry has been working on a number of measures to restrict federal overreach. In 2013, he introduced a bill (H.R. 3377) to explicitly clarify that the waters subject to federal control must be in fact “navigable,” i.e. a river, ocean, or lake. The bill also prohibited the EPA and Corps from defining what is “navigable water” without Congressional authorization and protected the rights of states to have the primary authority over the land within their borders. The bill already has more than 30 co-sponsors in the House. Senator Rand Paul (R-KY) introduced a Senate version of the bill in May 2013.
08.01.2014	Late this evening, the House passed two bills to deal with the urgent crisis on the border. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted in favor of both H.R. 5230, which increases border security and requires the prompt return of minors to their home countries, and H.R. 5272, which prohibits any expansion of the President's "Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA)." “We have taken important and necessary steps to deal with this crisis,” says Thornberry. “The key to fixing the problem is to return the children to their home countries immediately. We must also stop deferred action on deportations and close loopholes in well-intentioned human trafficking laws. These bills provide the means to do this and better secure our borders both now and in the future.” In recent months, tens of thousands of unaccompanied minors have flooded the U.S. southern border from Central America, particularly Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala. The massive influx of children has caused a major national security and humanitarian crisis for the country, especially for border states like Texas. House bill H.R. 5230 addresses this crisis in the following ways: - It provides $35 million for states to be reimbursed for deploying the National Guard, including Texas. - It increases funds for U.S. Customs and Border Patrol operations necessary to apprehend, transport, and provide temporary shelter to unaccompanied minors. - It expedites legal proceedings for migrants and increases deportation personnel for transportation and removal operations. - It requires an immigration judge to conduct a hearing within seven days of apprehension. - It prohibits any federal action on land that impedes border security. - It changes the 2008 immigration law to ensure minors from contiguous (Canada and Mexico) and noncontiguous (Central America) countries are treated the same. Therefore, any minor entering the U.S. illegally can be immediately returned without a mandated court hearing. - It restricts the placement of unaccompanied minors at military installations if doing so would displace members of the Armed Forces or interfere with military activities. In addition, H.R. 5272 prohibits the expansion of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) as well as the issuance of DACA status to those who may qualify under current guidelines. On June 15, 2012, President Obama unilaterally implemented DACA to provide deferred deportation to individuals who immigrated here illegally as children. H.R. 5272 freezes DACA as of July 30, 2014, to prohibit federal funds or resources to newly authorize deferred action for any class of illegal immigrants. It also prevents the authorization of work permits for individuals not lawfully present in the United States. “Our nation must be able to control who and what comes across its borders," said Rep. Thornberry. "The Senate should return to Washington and pass these bills immediately. The safety of these kids and our country is at stake.”
07.31.2014	Yesterday, the House passed a measure authorizing legal action to restrain the President from taking actions that exceed his authority under the Constitution. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted in favor of the passage. The vote was 225 to 201. "The President wants to make this about politics, but it is really about upholding our Constitution and the rule of law," says Thornberry. "All of us must live under the laws of the United States. Not even a president can ignore or violate them." While there are numerous instances where President Obama has ignored or altered federal law without the authority to do so, the case is expected to focus on two instances where the President altered the Obamacare health care law.
07.30.2014	Area Congressman Mac Thornberry voted on Tuesday to reform the Endangered Species Act (ESA) to increase transparency and ensure the listings of species are both accurate and reasonable. "ESA listings drastically affect our landowners, farmers, ranchers, and small business owners, and they all deserve to know the facts," says Rep. Thornberry. "As we saw earlier this year with the listing of the Lesser Prairie-Chicken as threatened, the listing process under the Endangered Species Act is severely flawed, misused, and often manipulated behind closed doors. This bill helps to correct these issues by requiring increased transparency in decision-making and ensuring our states, counties, and the people these decisions affect get a voice." According to current law, the decision to list a species as "endangered" or "threatened" must be based on the best available scientific data. However, these ESA listings are often based on professional opinions rather than actual data - opinions typically not made known to the public. In addition to this lack of transparency, the number of listing petitions has skyrocketed over the past several years. Decisions are being made behind closed doors based on sue-and-settle tactics and on questionable data. To correct this problem, H.R. 4315, the "Endangered Species Transparency and Reasonableness Act," changes the Endangered Species Act to require public disclosure of the data used to determine the listings of species. Specifically, the bill requires: - The Secretary of the Interior to publicize data used to make ESA listing decisions on the Internet; - The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries Service to provide states, tribes, and local governments with the data used to formulate a listing decision before the final decision is made; - The Secretary of Interior to submit a report annually outlining the federal government's expenditures for covered lawsuits along with a description of each suit; - Attorney fees to be capped at $125 per hour for any suit filed under the Endangered Species Act. This same cap applies to claims under the Equal Access to Justice Act where small businesses, veterans, and benefit recipients may sue and recover fees from the government. Currently, the ESA fees range between $400-$700 on the taxpayer's dime. Therefore, this cap protects the taxpayer from unnecessary expenses.
07.30.2014	Calling it an important step toward getting veterans the health care they were promised and toward cleaning up the Washington bureaucracy, Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) supported the House passage of the “Veterans’ Access to Care Through Choice, Accountability, and Transparency Act of 2014 (H.R. 3230).” Thornberry, who serves as the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, voted in favor of the bill, which is expected to pass the Senate later this week. “Meeting our commitments to our veterans is essential,” says Thornberry. “These men and women have put their lives on the line to keep our country safe, and they deserve our best in return. This bill enables our veterans to seek care from non-VA facilities if they cannot get an appointment at the VA within 30 days or live more than 40 miles from a VA facility. And, it provides the necessary funding for the VA to cover these costs as well as improve access, accountability, and quality care at existing VA facilities.” Reports of extended treatment delays, falsified wait times, and preventable deaths point to severe mismanagement and lack of accountability across the VA system. In response to the allegations, the VA Office of Inspector General began a review of over one hundred VA medical facilities and criminal investigations are now ongoing. To address these serious deficiencies within the system, the House and Senate joined together to develop a Conference Report which outlines a number of changes to the system to ensure veterans have timely access to care and to increase accountability across the Department. H.R. 3230 Highlights Included Below: - Requires the VA to offer non-VA medical care to any veteran who is enrolled in the VA as of August 1, 2014, or who is a newly discharged combat veteran if such veteran is unable to secure an appointment at a VA facility within 30 days or lives more than 40 miles away from the nearest facility; - Provides $10 billion for the “Veterans Choice Fund” to cover the costs of increased access to non-VA care. The VA will provide veterans a Veterans Choice Card to facilitate non-VA care payment. - Requires an independent assessment of VA medical care to continually evaluate the quality of care; - Provides $5 billion to the VA to improve VA’s physical infrastructure and hire more quality physicians and medical staff; - Authorizes 27 major medical facility leases in 18 states and Puerto Rico; - Authorizes the VA to fire or demote Senior Executive Service (SES) employees for poor performance or misconduct; - Reduces funding for bonuses available to VA employees by $40 million each year through FY2024; - Requires public universities to provide veterans and eligible dependents with in-state tuition. Next, the bill is expected to pass the Senate and will then head to the President’s desk for final approval. “I applaud the House’s passage and urge the Senate and the President to do the same. Our veterans have waited long enough.”
07.29.2014	The land dispute between the federal government and Texans who live along the Red River was the subject of a hearing in the U.S. House today as the Resources Committee explored the “Red River Private Property Protection Act (H.R. 4979)," introduced by area Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon). “I think the bill was well-received, and I appreciated the chance to explain it to the Committee and answer whatever questions they had,” said Thornberry. “The BLM stated once again that they wanted to work with us, and I am certainly open to making specific improvements in the legislation to ensure certainty to local landowners. I will continue to push it forward in the process,” he continued. Thornberry presented his bill to the Committee and testified about how it would resolve the land dispute. The bill, which was also introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators John Cornyn and Ted Cruz, seeks to settle all federal ownership claims by providing legal certainty to landowners along the Red River. It directs the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to relinquish and transfer quit claim deeds to landowners who can prove ownership through official State and county records. It also prevents the BLM from including any privately owned acres in a current or future Resource Management Plan. Pat Canan, a Wichita County landowner and Captain Game Warden at the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department, testified at the hearing. Canan, whose land lies along the disputed area, said, “I am concerned about private property rights and I think this legislation is a good start to getting things back to the way they need to be. The hearing went well and I feel good about it.” Concern arose last December when the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) announced it was beginning the process to revise its Resource Management Plan (RMP) for lands it manages. At the time, the agency said there are thousands of acres along the Red River on the border between Texas and Oklahoma that may be considered public domain. The stretch of land is located in Wilbarger, Wichita, and Clay counties. “Certainty for local landowners is critical. Perhaps an even bigger point in our efforts is providing protection for private property against government overreach, which seems to be happening more and more. This bill sends the signal that the House is going to fight this federal intrusion every step of the way,” Thornberry said.
07.23.2014	Congress is taking a closer look at the Red River land dispute. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) announced that a hearing will be held next Tuesday at 10:00a.m. EDT to discuss his legislation to protect private property along the Red River. “This hearing is one more step forward, and a very important one, in our efforts to assure landowners that their private property will be protected,” says Thornberry. “Property owners deserve this certainty, particularly when their livelihoods are at stake. I look forward to the Committee’s feedback on our proposal.” Thornberry’s bill, the “Red River Private Property Protection Act (H.R. 4979)," seeks to settle all federal ownership claims by providing legal certainty to landowners along the Red River. It directs the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to relinquish and transfer quit claim deeds to landowners who can prove ownership through official State and county records. It also prevents the BLM from including any privately owned acres in a current or future Resource Management Plan. The legislation will be examined along with eight other bills that deal with land issues under the House Natural Resources Committee’s jurisdiction. As a part of the hearing, the Committee will hear personal testimony from a Texas landowner whose land along the Red River has been called into question. Additional information can be found on the House Natural Resources Committee’s website here. The hearing will also be available for live viewing at this link.
07.18.2014	Congressman Mac Thornberry, Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on the missile attack against the Malaysia airliner: “The Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17 is a terrible tragedy, and the world is watching our response. Earlier today at the United Nations, the U.S. presented persuasive evidence of Russian involvement in the escalating conflict. Meanwhile, the President has failed to articulate any plan of action. In this incident and others, the United States must take steps to strengthen our nation’s defense and demonstrate decisive leadership. For as we know and have seen, weakness invites aggression.”
06.26.2014	Calling it a win for American energy, Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) joined his House colleagues this week to pass three bills that expand U.S. energy production, create more jobs, and cut costs. “Energy is one of the real bright spots in our economy, no thanks to Washington,” said Rep. Mac Thornberry. "Increasing energy production also has very real strategic consequences that benefit us in this turbulent time for our nation's security." Continued energy growth has significant economic impact both nationally and locally. Innovative technology and drilling developments, such as hydraulic fracturing, have increased domestic energy production across the country – particularly in Texas. In fact, Texas is the nation’s leader in crude oil and natural gas production, accounting for approximately 1.9 million jobs. “Just yesterday, we saw the GDP drop by 2.9%, the sharpest pullback since the 2009 recession. News like this makes the energy boom even more important for America," said Thornberry. "It’s time to play to our strengths – invest in energy – to reverse this economic downward spiral and get more Americans back to work. We have the tools; we just have to use them.” H.R. 3301, the North American Energy Infrastructure Act, modernizes the cross-border approval process for oil pipelines, natural gas pipelines, and electric transmission lines between the United States, Canada, and Mexico. The bill replaces the Presidential permit requirement with a standardized approval process so long-term, cross-border projects like the Keystone Pipeline have a chance to succeed and create new jobs across the country. H.R. 6, the Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act, expedites exports of U.S. liquefied natural gas (LNG) to our allies. As the world’s top natural gas producer, America has the ability to supplant the influence of volatile countries like Russia and Iran who currently dominate the energy market. Exports would both help our allies and create thousands of American jobs. Studies estimate that for Texas alone, LNG exports would add 155,713 jobs and $31.4 billion in income over the next ten years. As the Vice Chairman of the Armed Services Committee and an advocate for LNG exports, Thornberry is a co-sponsor of this bill. H.R. 4899, Lowering Gasoline Prices to Fuel an America That Works Act of 2014, requires the Administration to move forward with offshore energy production in areas containing the most oil and natural gas resources. Since President Obama took office, total federal offshore oil production decreased by 13 percent and natural gas production decreased by 47 percent. Offshore oil and gas give America the resources needed to decrease dependence on foreign oil, lower gas prices, and create more American jobs. In addition to these bills, Thornberry introduced his own bill to increase all-of-the-above domestic energy production. The legislation, H.R. 2081, called the “No More Excuses Energy Act,” would encourage construction of new refineries; increase onshore and offshore drilling; and invest in nuclear power plants. The bill also opens the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska to responsible drilling that produces nearly a million barrels per day. More refineries and drilling areas assure a consistent energy supply for consumers and drives gas prices down. Thornberry also introduced H.R. 2202, the “LNG Excise Tax Equalization Act,” to equalize the tax on LNG and diesel fuel in order to lower the cost and advance the use of natural gas. Last month, Thornberry visited an LNG filling station and a wind energy plant in Amarillo to see domestic energy first-hand from a variety of sources. Along with today’s action to halt the Administration’s current restrictions on energy production, Thornberry has consistently combatted excessive federal regulations on multiple fronts. Most recently, he spoke out against the President’s proposed EPA regulations on carbon-dioxide emission, which would increase costs for American businesses and consumers alike. He also created legislation to protect landowners from the EPA’s regulatory overreach by redefining the term “navigable waters” in the Clean Water Act. Thornberry also advocated against the inclusion of the Lesser Prairie Chicken as an Endangered Species to further prevent restrictions on farmers.
06.26.2014	Congressman Mac Thornberry introduced a bill today to protect private property along the Red River from federal ownership claims. By providing legal certainty to landowners, the Red River Private Property Protection Act (H.R 4979) seeks to end any questions about the federal government's ownership of disputed land along the Red River. Thornberry expects Senator Cornyn to introduce a similar measure in the Senate. “This uncertainty threatens the value of privately-owned land and has made it more difficult for property owners to make decisions,” said Thornberry. “It is essential that this issue be firmly and finally resolved so that landowners can be sure of their title. The bill contains the authority to make that happen.” Concern arose last December when the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) announced it was beginning the process to revise its Resource Management Plan (RMP) for lands it manages. At the time, the agency said there are thousands of acres along the Red River on the border between Texas and Oklahoma that may be considered public domain. The stretch of land is located in Wilbarger, Wichita, and Clay counties. Many landowners and other public officials are alarmed that the BLM actions might result in disputed claims of ownership. Congressman Thornberry immediately pressed the case with the BLM, locally and with the agency’s leadership in Washington. Since December, Thornberry and his staff have held multiple meetings, phone calls, and other correspondence with landowners, as well as local and state officials, to coordinate action. He has also been working with relevant House congressional committees and the State’s U.S. Senators to discuss options of how to address it. The legislation is the next step in ensuring that private property is protected. The bill, H.R. 4979, provides legal certainty to property owners along the Red River by: • Directing the BLM to relinquish and transfer by quit claim deed any land in Texas along the Red River to a landowner who can prove through official State or county records that they fully own the land; • Requiring the BLM to issue a public notice of the process and accept all legitimate claims of ownership; • Establishing a 120-day time period in which the BLM must act on a request; and • Preventing the BLM from including any privately owned acres in a Resource Management Plan. Thornberry has asked the House Resources Committee, which oversees the BLM and all public land issues, to hold a hearing on the legislation at the earliest possible date.
06.23.2014	Newly-released data shows that people in the 13th congressional district are facing steep increases in their individual healthcare premiums. A nationwide study released last week estimates that in our area, men of all ages face significant cost hikes for health insurance – some as high as 95 percent – with young men facing the steepest increases. On average, young men are paying 74 percent more for their health insurance this year than last year. In fact, a 27-year-old male in Randall county is paying 85 percent more for his individual policy in 2014 than he paid in 2013, while in Gray county, he will face an 84 percent increase. In Wichita county, he will pay 73 percent more, and in Cooke county, 68 percent. Not one county had an average increase lower than 54 percent. Locally, women also face increased costs. On average, women in their mid-twenties are paying 28 percent more for their health insurance in 2014 than in the previous year. “The bottom line is Obamacare has failed to make good on its promise to decrease healthcare costs for everyone,” says Rep. Mac Thornberry. “Instead, it’s done the opposite, leaving Americans with higher costs and fewer choices. This report is the latest evidence that the law is a failure and a complete mess. And that is why the House continues working to repeal, dismantle, and defund it.” The report analyzed the county by county cost of Obamacare based on age and gender. According to the report, Obamacare increased the cost of 2014 individual healthcare premiums by 49 percent nationally. Across Texas, Obamacare has caused healthcare costs to skyrocket, especially for young men (see chart below). For the average 27-year-old male, premiums increased by 79 percent where costs increased by 29 percent for women of the same age. Statistically, men in their twenties and thirties have the least healthcare needs of all demographics. Yet, regardless of the need, they are forced to pay the same amount for coverage – essentially higher fees for less service. To view how Obamacare affects a specific county, click here.
06.20.2014	Area Congressman Mac Thornberry and others in the House of Representatives are insisting that the Obama Administration take immediate action to halt the dangerous migration of unaccompanied children and families across the nation’s Southwest border. “This illegal surge has reached crisis proportions, creating a security risk for our country and a safety hazard for the unaccompanied children,” said Rep. Thornberry. “The President has a duty to enforce the laws and an obligation to do so in a way that protects the American people, while also ensuring the humane treatment of the unaccompanied children and families. He must take immediate steps to address this serious situation, and the House stands ready and willing to help him.” The statistics associated with the recent mass migration are startling. According to a congressional letter sent to President Obama, in May 2014, the number of undocumented children apprehended by United States Customs and Border Protection increased by 267 percent over the number apprehended in May 2013. During the same period, the number of undocumented adults increased by 72 percent. At a rate of $5,000 per child, these criminal smuggling groups earned at least $53,230,000 in May alone. Federal Border Patrol agents have been overwhelmed recently with a surge of unaccompanied minors and other immigrants illegally crossing over the nation’s Southwest border. In response, Governor Rick Perry and other Texas officials announced late Wednesday a plan to deploy more Department of Public Safety, or DPS, agents to the border — at a cost of $1.3 million per week. Today, Thornberry and his House colleagues sent a letter to the President. View the letter here. Also, click here to see a similar letter sent by House Speaker John Boehner. # # #
06.13.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement on the growing danger in Iraq: "The aggressive advancement of terrorists across Iraq poses a major threat to Iraq, its neighbors, the Middle East, and the United States. Our top priority must be to protect our people and American interests. That protection cannot come from a passive White House. Americans need to see the President's plan to stop the spread of terrorism and counter the threat as soon as possible." # # #
06.11.2014	This morning Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, questioned Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel on the release of Taliban terrorists in exchange for Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl. Transcript included below. Click here to watch a video of the hearing. REPRESENTATIVE MAC THORNBERRY (R-TX): Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to just begin with a brief additional observation on the notification issue. For the past several years, this committee has worked on a bipartisan basis to establish an oversight structure for cyber operations, for terrorism operations, and for sensitive military operations, and an oversight structure that allows the department to have the flexibility it needs to operate in a volatile, rapidly changing world and still give us the ability to exercise our duties under the Constitution. Now, the basis for all of those in all three of those areas is that we get timely, accurate information from the department. And this failure, even if it was ordered by the White House, undermines the ability to have that sort of oversight structure. I've been a member of the Intelligence Committee for 10 years. Our work depends on getting accurate timely information from the intelligence community. If the President can violate the law and say, 'No, in this case, we're not going to give you the information,' it undermines the oversight process that we have with the intelligence community. So my point to you is, it's not just about this incident. It's not just about somebody having their feelings hurt. This decision undermines a lot of the working relationship in all these areas of national security. And I think it's important that the whole Administration understands some of the ramifications of this. Let me ask a specific question. Press reports indicate that Sergeant Bergdahl was captured by a Haqqani Network commander and was held by the Haqqani Network. Is that true? SEC. HAGEL: What I would prefer is, as I noted, in a classified session, that we get into the specifics of the 15-6 commander's evaluation report that was done on the circumstances at the time of Sergeant Bergdahl's capture. I believe that was done in August of 2009. That's been sent up here, unredacted, sent up here yesterday. And I'd just as soon get into that in a -- in a classified (room). REP. THORNBERRY: Well, I'm not -- SEC. HAGEL: I would say this, though. I would say this. He was -- in that report that the Army did, he was classified as missing/captive. So -- (inaudible) -- REP. THORNBERRY: I wasn't really -- (inaudible) -- just to verify, as I understand it, Administration people have said clearly it was the Haqqani Network that kept him. SEC. HAGEL: Well, the Haqqani Network did have him through periods of time. This was another complication. Over a five-year period, he was moved around. We had difficulty finding him and knowing where he was. Different groups held him. So the complication of the Haqqanis being part of this, that's right. REP. THORNBERRY: OK. And it's also true the Haqqani Network is listed by the State Department as a foreign terrorist organization. SEC. HAGEL: That's right. That's right. REP. THORNBERRY: Let me just turn with -- SEC. HAGEL: But we didn't negotiate with Haqqani. REP. THORNBERRY: OK. I think that's a subject we'll want to discuss more, if we must, in the classified session, but I think who -- (inaudible) -- SEC. HAGEL: Well, I want to make sure the record's clear on that. SEC. HAGEL: I want to make sure the record's clear. We engaged the Qataris, and they engaged the Taliban. If the Haqqanis were subcontracting with the Taliban, you know the Pakistan Taliban and the Afghan Taliban, there's a difference there. So we get back into definitions of who has responsibility for whom. I just want to make sure that's clear in the record, and we can go into a lot more detail. REP. THORNBERRY: I think you just pointed out some of the difficulty in making categorical statements, that we don't negotiate with terrorists, when at least for some period the Haqqanis were the ones who had him. Let me just ask about one other thing, and that is the five detainees that were released. You said there is some risk of releasing someone from Guantanamo, but you also said they have not been implicated on any attacks in the United States. I have some unclassified summary of evidence before the combatant status review tribunals. For example, for Mr. Fasal it says the detainee engaged in hostilities against the United States or its coalition partners. Maybe there is a difference between them. And another was against the coalition. At some point there was evidence they were engaged in hostilities, military operations against the coalition, weren't there? SEC. HAGEL: Yes. There were mid to high ranking officials of the Taliban. So, yes, they were part of the planning. My point was, we have no direct evidence of any direct involvement in their direct attacks on the United States or any of our troops. They were part of the Taliban. At the time some were given to us, we picked up two, yes, they were combatants. REP. THORNBERRY: So your point is they didn't pull the trigger, but they were senior commanders of the Taliban military who directed operations against the United States, and its coalition partners. Is that a better way to do it? SEC. HAGEL: That's right. As I said in my statement, Congressman, they were combatants. We were at war with the Taliban. There's no getting around that, and I made that point, I thought pretty clear. REP. THORNBERRY: Thank you. Thornberry serves as the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee and serves on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence.
06.03.2014	Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement in response to the release of Sergeant Bowe Bergdahl: "Of course, all of us are relieved that Sergeant Bergdahl is no longer a captive. The agreement which led to his release raises a number of concerns, however. "One is that negotiating for the release of a hostage will encourage more hostage-taking. "Another is that release of the five detainees from Guantanamo will increase the danger to our troops and the Afghan government. They are significant leaders of the Taliban. The U.S. is trying to convince the Afghan government not to release many dangerous detainees currently in Afghan prisons. Our release of five Taliban makes that argument more difficult for us to make. "Finally, the President did not comply with U.S. law in giving Congress at least 30 days notice of any transfer from Guantanamo. This Administration is developing a track record of ignoring laws it finds inconvenient." # # #
06.02.2014	Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) released the following statement in response to the President's new EPA regulations on carbon-dioxide emissions: "We all want clear air and clean water. What the vast majority of Americans do not want, though, is an even more aggressive EPA issuing sweeping regulations that will further drive up costs for businesses and consumers alike. "Texas relies on affordable and reliable energy to power our strong economy. These proposed rules are a serious threat to that growth. Just last week a U.S. Chamber of Commerce report estimated that Texans will pay an additional $1.4 billion for electricity each year if these rules take effect. "Today’s announcement makes it clear, once again, that the President puts a growing economy and our standard of living at a much lower priority than his anti-fossil fuel agenda. The House must do everything it can to stop these destructive regulations." # # #
05.28.2014	To watch video, please click here. REMARKS AS PREPARED FOR DELIVERY I appreciate the invitation to be with y’all today and have benefited from the Heritage Foundation’s insights on national security since I was a young defense staffer on the Hill in the early 1980’s. Those were exciting and contentious times. We suffer from a bit of amnesia if we believe that Reagan’s defense build-up and his fight against communism, alongside Margaret Thatcher and John Paul II, were an inevitable triumph based on consensus policies. In fact, Reagan’s policies were resisted here at home and in Europe every step of the way – viciously. Just as steps we need to take today are resisted. The effort at Heritage to look back a century at World War I is good and needed, partly for historical accuracy to prevent that kind of amnesia and partly because there seems to be an inevitable tendency to abuse history for current political ends – even recent history. We tend to err in one of two ways. Either we try to shoehorn whatever current problem we face into a historical analogy – often Munich, or Vietnam, or now Iraq – that seems to provide only one reasonable policy decision. Or, we ignore the lessons of history and then fulfill Santayana’s warning by repeating the mistakes of the past. No result is inevitable; it depends on the decisions that we and others make. But, we can, if we are wise, learn principles from history that serve us well when applied to the unique circumstances of today. And if I may shortcut to my bottom line conclusion, peace through strength is one of those principles we can and should relearn, keep fresh, and apply over and over. Some may ask whether this “slogan” really has any application in today’s world? There are those who seem to believe that the national security challenges we face today are far too complicated for the simplistic approaches of a bygone era. We need someone not tied to the past who is nimble and smart enough to find just the right balanced approach to every problem. Today at West Point the President is said to begin an effort to explain his national security policy to us. According to press reports, we, the American people don’t understand how deft the President’s polices of hitting singles and doubles in foreign policy really are. The problem is us. If we will let him educate us, then we will have a greater appreciation of his more sophisticated, nuanced maneuvering in the world. Maneuver as he will, the United States today does face a wide, complex array of threats. Mr. Putin has reminded us that Europe is not the serene, peaceful place many had assumed. Despite the Administration’s best efforts to persuade us otherwise, terrorism has not gone away. In fact, in many ways the terrorist threat we face today is more diverse and difficult than ever. I note a story in the New York Times a few days ago in which the new Director of the FBI admits that before he was sworn in and got access to the latest information, he underestimated the terrorist threat. “I didn’t have anywhere near the appreciation I got after I came into this job just how virulent those affiliates had become,” Mr. Comey said. “There are both many more than I appreciated, and they are stronger than I appreciated.” Boko Harem is just the latest to remind us of that. The dangers posed by the outlaw states of North Korea and Iran are greater now than in some time. Afghanistan, we will talk about in a minute, but we have to keep sight of the effects of our policy on the nuclear state next door, Pakistan. The reemergence of Al Qaeda groups in Iraq coupled with the safe haven in Syria poses higher risks as Europeans and others travel there and back again. New domains of warfare in cyber and outer space develop, and we struggle to keep up. A few weeks ago, I traveled to Asia with Majority Leader Cantor. As we heard the same talking points from one high-ranking Chinese official after another, my heart sank. They clearly see China as a rising power. They clearly see the U.S. as a declining power. They clearly have historical grievances that they think they are now in a position to correct. And they clearly are aggressive and confident. All of which made me think of Germany before World War I. I do not see conflict with China as inevitable. There are as many differences as similarities with the Kaiser’s Germany. But, again it depends on what we do and how they view what we do. The other point made clear from that trip is that friends and allies, as well as others who are not necessarily friends or allies, are watching us carefully to see whether the U.S. keeps its commitments and means what it says. Today, there is reason to doubt – not only in Asia but in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and South Asia as well. So maybe it is no surprise, but still it is rather unsettling, to see people like Richard Haass, President of the Council on Foreign Relations, write, “American foreign policy is in troubling disarray. …We are witnessing an accelerated movement toward a post-American world.” Or David Brooks, in the New York Times, “All around, the fabric of peace and order is fraying.” Even Lech Walesa made news again yesterday by saying, “the world is disorganized and the superpower is not taking the lead.” He says he intends to urge President Obama to lead or turn it over to a country that will. These are not exactly your typical Obama-bashers. Across the spectrum, there is concern that under Barack Obama, America is in withdrawal mode. And there is fear that this President thinks and acts like he can make things happen in the world just by giving a speech – that he can protect America with his rhetoric alone. Now, being a fan of Churchill and Reagan, I have a great appreciation for the power of effective communication. But that communication must be backed by something and by someone willing to make the tough choices and then defend them. What we say is important; what we do is more important. Obama has taken “speak softly and carry a big stick” and turned it on its head. More people are coming to realize that, unfortunately, more often than not for this Administration, short term political tactics take precedence over protecting longer term strategic interests. David Ignatius, again not a typical Obama critic and someone who admits he sympathizes with many of Obama’s foreign policy goals, writes that the Benghazi emails “show that the Administration spent more time thinking about what to say than what to do.” And he goes on to write, “Under Obama, the United States has suffered some real reputational damage. …This damage unfortunately has largely been self-inflicted by an administration that focuses too much on short-term messaging.” Consistent with this short-term political focus is the unprecedented micromanagement of all aspects of national security by the White House staff. From Secretary Gates’s book and other accounts, it is clear how frustrated people in the departments have been in trying to carry out their responsibilities. The biggest scandal of Reagan’s presidency was about operations managed by the National Security Council staff. And that happens every day in Obama’s White House. So the President is going to educate us about how these critics are wrong and on how enlightened his policies truly are. And what are the fruits of the Obama approach? Aggressors are emboldened; friends are unsure; neutrals are making new calculations; and according to the yearly index published by Freedom House, freedom is in retreat, declining for the eighth consecutive year. The Washington Post editorial board this morning writes: “The Afghan decision would be understandable had Mr. Obama's previous choices proved out. But what’s remarkable is that the results also have been consistent – consistently bad.” The President loves to set up straw men arguments. His opponents are either isolationist or interventionist. And of course, he knocks down both extremes and comes right down the middle with the only reasonable answer. That is an approach to argument that we could expect a law professor to make. But that is not leadership. The world does not operate in a split-the-difference, neither-this-nor-that mode. The world wants to know, as the Economist magazine cover asked, “What will America fight for?” What does America really stand for? Can America be counted on? Yesterday the President announced that we would keep 9,800 troops in Afghanistan after December, cutting that number in half the next year, and pulling out completely by the end of 2016. Am I the only one who suspects that the White House liked the sound of 9,800 far better than 10,000, so they made sure it was below double-digits? Am I the only one who suspects that this is another example of the President calculating the minimum he can get by with to avoid disaster but that his heart is not in it? Now if you are friend or ally of the U.S., does this decision give you more confidence in our friendship? If you are one of the 9,800, do you believe that the President really supports your mission? We started out talking about learning lessons from history. The Washington Post points out this morning that we left Afghanistan once, which led to 9/11, and everyone said we won’t make that mistake again. Even a President with rhetorical gifts cannot finesse his way out of military weakness or the loss of credibility in the world. Power and influence in the world come from having capability plus the will to use it. We acquire military capability in the annual defense budget. Last week, the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act by a vote of 325 to 98. Having bipartisan support, the President promptly threatened to veto the bill because we rejected, as did the Senate Armed Services Committee, many of the Administration’s proposals. For four years in a row, they have sent Congress budgets hiding the full effect of their cuts by including proposals that they know neither the House nor Senate, neither Republicans nor Democrats will accept. Defense spending this year is 17% of the federal budget, the lowest since before World War II. Does Congress bear some of responsibility for declining budgets and military capability? Yes – both houses and both parties, although I believe that Mr. Putin and others have helped awaken many Republicans to why we have always put defense first. What we see over and over again, however, is that there is never any substitute for Presidential leadership on matters of national security, and when it is lacking, American security suffers. So where are we headed with the budget? If we don’t find a way to replace the lower defense budget caps with something more reasonable, we are headed to the smallest army since before World War II. To the smallest navy since 1931. To the smallest air force since its inception. We have already arrived at a nuclear weapons complex that is falling apart just as the challenges with these aging machines mount because the funding commitments that were made during ratification of the New START Treaty have not been kept. And, of course, a national security space program dependent on Russian-made engines. So, meanwhile, what is the rest of the world doing? According to the Economist magazine, if you compare military spending over the last 10 years, (2004-13): China is up 170% Russia is up 110% Even India is up 45% U.S. is up only 12 %. Britain, France, Italy – all declined. Of course, it is not just about the total dollars spent; it is also about how that money is spent. And we have a lot of work to do to see that we use our defense dollars wisely – that we get more defense out of the money we spend. We have a bipartisan, bicameral effort underway to work with the Pentagon and with industry to reduce overhead and improve acquisition. But on the bigger budget picture, the Administration resorts to political blamesmanship, accusing Congress of just being interested in parochial interests for not agreeing to their defense cuts. Is there some of that? Sure. Is that the reason so many Members of Congress in both parties have real doubts and concerns about where this Administration is taking our country’s national security? I don’t think so. I disagree with many of the President’s proposals for two reasons. One is I’m not sure they are well thought out. Last year, he wanted to retire Global Hawk and keep U-2. This year he proposed just the reverse. How much confidence does that give us in the proposals? I know this – the commanders in Korea say they need them both with the volatile nature of the new ruler in the North. The other reason that I oppose many of the Administration proposals is that I am not willing to accept that we must have a smaller military and a smaller role in the world. Most Republicans and many Democrats are not willing to throw up our hands in retreat and resign ourselves to a smaller military and a smaller role. Because we know, that as the United States retreats, others will fill the void, and those others will not move the world toward greater freedom and greater prosperity. The United States is exceptional in a way that no other nation in the world is. The President also accuses Republicans of wanting to use military force in every situation. I do not. That is another of the President’s straw men arguments. I believe in Smart Power. I served on the Commission on Smart Power. Our 2007 report talked about having available the full range of tools of national power and influence so that the right tool could be used in the right circumstance. But some of those tools have to be big hammers. In fact all of the tools – diplomacy, foreign aid, and strategic communications – are more effective if they have credible military power to back them up. But that’s the rub – we have to have the military power; it has to be credible; and we have to be credible about its use. David Ignatius wrote that “The intangible factors of strength and credibility (so easy to mock) are, in fact, the glue of a rules-based international system.” That’s what’s fraying – our strength and our credibility, and that’s the reason for the disarray. Cutting through it all was Tony Blair whose advice to us is, “Don’t worry so much about being loved. Just be strong. ...What the world needs now is for you to be strong.” Of course, no one said it better than Ronald Reagan, on Memorial Day 1986 at Arlington: “And we owe them something, those boys. …We owe them a promise to look at the world with a steady gaze and, perhaps, a resigned toughness, knowing that we have adversaries in the world and challenges and the only way to meet them and maintain the peace is by staying strong. That, of course, is the lesson of this century, a lesson learned in the Sudetenland, in Poland, in Hungary, in Czechoslovakia, in Cambodia. If we really care about peace, we must stay strong. If we really care about peace, we must, through our strength, demonstrate our unwillingness to accept an ending of the peace. We must be strong enough to create peace where it does not exist and strong enough to protect it where it does.” The theme of this month at Heritage is Protect America. The way to do that – the only way to have peace for us the only way to have peace in the world -- is for America to be strong and for America to be credible. Peace through strength – it applies as much now as it ever has.
05.22.2014	Calling the bill a “victory for the country’s priorities rather than politics,” Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, today announced the passage of H.R. 4435, the Fiscal Year 2015 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) in the House. The vote was 325 in favor and 98 against. “Money is tight, yet this bill still gives our war fighters the tools and resources they need to face increasing threats, prepare for new ones, and keep America safe,” said Thornberry. “The bill also preserves options for our national defense in hopes that progress can be made in the larger budget before sequestration resumes next year. The world is not getting any safer, and our defense bills have to acknowledge this reality,” he continued. Included in the legislation is a 1.8 percent pay raise for troops and a pay freeze for general and flag officers. The bill rejects the Administration’s proposal to execute another round of base realignment and closures (BRAC), as well as a plan to make cuts to the Army National Guard and move the Guard’s Apache helicopters into the active duty force. It also denies several other Administration proposals, including increases in out-of-pocket expenses for service members and retirees. Service members who are victims of the 2009 Fort Hood attack or any other attack that was inspired or motivated by a U.S. State Department-designated foreign terrorist organization will receive Purple Hearts under this bill. Modest steps toward acquisition reform, a major effort led by Rep. Thornberry, are included as well. Locally, the annual defense policy bill authorizes funding for programs at Bell Helicopter, Pantex, and Sheppard Air Force Base. Specifically, H.R. 4435 increases funding for nuclear weapons activities—much of which is performed at Pantex—by $143.7 million. To help address the backlog of deferred maintenance on physical infrastructure in the nuclear weapons facilities, including Pantex, the legislation also increases funding for recapitalizing deferred maintenance programs by $39 million above the President's request. During floor consideration, Thornberry spearheaded efforts to defeat an amendment that would have stripped $100 million in nuclear weapons and nuclear infrastructure modernization funding that could have impacted Pantex. The bill now heads to the Senate. LOCAL HIGHLIGHTS: Bell Helicopter projects funded at $1.845 billion for the V-22 Osprey program, including 19 new aircraft, and $904 million for the Huey and Cobra (UH-1Y/AH-1Z) helicopters, including 26 new H-1 series helicopters. Directs the Navy to assess whether the Osprey could be used to replace the aging C-2A Greyhound aircraft currently performing the carrier onboard delivery mission. Bill increases funding for nuclear weapons activities—much of which is performed at Pantex—by $143.7 million. Increases funding for recapitalizing deferred maintenance programs by $39 million to help address the backlog of deferred maintenance on physical infrastructure in the nuclear weapons facilities, including Pantex. Authorizing funding for programs and missions at Sheppard Air Force Base. OVERALL BILL HIGHLIGHTS: Authorizes $521.3 billion in budget authority for the Department of Defense (DoD) and national security programs of the Department of Energy (DOE), as well as $79.4 billion for the war in Afghanistan and other overseas operations. 1.8 percent pay raise for the troops in 2015, higher than the 1 percent pay raise found in the President’s budget proposal. Prohibit the use of funds to propose, plan for, or execute an additional base closure and realignment round (BRAC). Provides $45.3 million for behavioral and psychological health programs and efforts specifically for Special Operations Forces, including more than doubling funds to immediately increase the number of psychologists, social workers, nurse case managers, and operational psychologists embedded within units to address suicide prevention and mental health. Thornberry provision to return to an independent Office of Net Assessment (ONA) that reports directly to the Secretary of Defense. Thornberry provision requiring DoD to develop a plan for implementing a periodic review and analysis of Pentagon personnel requirements for management headquarters. Thornberry amendment to reauthorize Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq (OSC-I) for an additional year. Thornberry provision to create Defense Audit Advisory Panel to increase congressional oversight and help the DoD achieve auditability. Eliminates the “good soldier defense” and also calls for a review of the terms of discharge for those who are victims of sexual offenses to ensure that they have not been persecuted for reporting crimes. Several provisions to restrict the transfer of detainees held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
05.21.2014	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following statement in response to the recent allegations of abuse at VA clinics across the country: “The problems coming to light at VA facilities are appalling. Our veterans, who have bravely served this country, deserve to get the medical attention they need, when they need it. And all of us deserve government agencies that are honest and open. "Last week, Members of the Texas Delegation sent a letter to the Inspector General calling for further investigations of the VA clinics in Austin, Waco, and San Antonio. And today the House passed a bill to give the Secretary of the VA the authority to fire senior level employees who fail to put the treatment of our veterans first. I’m afraid, however, that the problems go far deeper and require more drastic changes. The House must continue to make this a priority." # # #
05.13.2014	Members of the Texas delegation today called for an Inspector General investigation into allegations that Veterans Affairs officials in Central Texas manipulated medical appointment data in order to conceal long wait times for veterans seeking care. You can see a full copy of the letter below. According to media reports, employees at the North Central Federal Clinic in San Antonio, the Austin Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic and Waco Veterans Affairs Medical Center were instructed by supervisors to ensure that wait times for veterans were as “close to zero days as possible.” An employee of Veterans Affairs who recently worked at all three clinics claims that staffers falsely logged patients’ desired appointment dates to closely coincide with appointment openings. But in reality, veterans were left waiting for months. These new allegations come on the heels of reports that at least 40 veterans in Phoenix died while waiting to receive care. “The policy of falsifying medical records is dishonest, deceptive, and injurious to veterans,” wrote the members. “Swift action must be taken to protect the health and well-being of our nation’s veterans.” “We understand that your office has staff in San Antonio reviewing these allegations,” the letter continued. “However, we want to make sure that your office is also investigating the potential misconduct that may have affected veterans seeking care in Waco and Austin. Any individuals found to have engaged in misconduct or mismanagement must face serious consequences.” The members urged Inspector General Griffin to “expeditiously and thoroughly investigate the claims regarding misconduct” and report back to Congress on his findings. Twenty-three members joined Rep. Thornberry in calling for the IG investigation including: Rep. Joe Barton (TX-06), Rep. Kevin Brady (TX-08), Rep. Michael Burgess (TX-26), Rep. John Carter (TX-31), Rep. Michael Conaway (TX-11), Rep. John Culberson (TX-07), Rep. Blake Farenthold (TX-27), Rep. Bill Flores (TX-17), Rep. Pete Gallego (TX-23), Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01), Rep. Kay Granger (TX-12), Rep. Ralph Hall (TX-04), Rep. Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Rep. Sam Johnson (TX-03), Rep. Kenny Marchant (TX-24), Rep. Michael McCaul (TX-10), Rep. Randy Neugebauer (TX-19), Rep. Pete Olson (TX-22), Rep. Ted Poe (TX-02), Rep. Pete Sessions (TX-32), Rep. Lamar Smith (TX-21), Rep. Randy Weber (TX-14), and Rep. Roger Williams (TX-25).
05.08.2014	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, today announced that the Committee approved the FY 2015 National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 4435) by a vote of 61 to 0. Overall, the legislation would authorize $521.3 billion for the Department of Defense and the nuclear weapons programs at the Department of Energy, plus $79.4 billion for the war in Afghanistan and other overseas operations. The bill totals $30.7 billion less than the enacted FY14 NDAA. “The threats to our security are growing and getting more complex all around the world. This strong, bipartisan bill tries to meet these threats within a constrained budget by providing support for our war fighters and offering additional resources for other national security priorities,” said Rep. Thornberry. “The bill also strengthens congressional oversight, rejects several problematic proposals offered by the Administration, and helps lay the groundwork for our efforts to get more defense for our dollars in the years to come,” he continued. Included in the legislation is a 1.8 percent pay raise for troops. At the same time, the bill includes a pay freeze for General and Flag Officers in FY 2015. The bill rejects the Administration’s proposal to execute another round of base closures (BRAC), as well as a plan to make cuts to the National Guard and move the Guard’s Apache helicopters into the active duty force. It also awards the Purple Heart to service members who are victims of the 2009 Fort Hood attack or any other attack that was inspired or motivated by a U.S. State Department-designated foreign terrorist organization. Additionally, the defense policy bill denies several other Administration proposals, including increases in out-of-pocket expenses for service member housing and requests for military families and retirees to pay more for health care. The Pentagon’s proposal to slash the annual commissary operating budget by two-thirds over three years was also rejected in favor of a much more modest reduction in direct subsidies to military commissaries where military families can buy name-brand groceries and other items at a reduced cost. As part of the comprehensive defense reform effort being led by Rep. Thornberry, the bill includes several measures that lay the foundation for overall spending and security reform. Because the Committee is deeply concerned about unauthorized disclosure of classified information that jeopardizes U.S. military operations, capabilities, and technology, the legislation directs the Secretary of Defense to provide the Committee with frequent reports on the damage resulting from these unauthorized disclosures and steps the Department is taking to mitigate the damage. Locally, the annual defense policy bill authorizes funding for programs at Bell Helicopter, Pantex, and Sheppard Air Force Base. Bell Helicopter projects are funded at $1.845 billion for the V-22 Osprey program, including 19 new aircraft, and $904 million for the Huey and Cobra (UH-1Y/AH-1Z) helicopters, including 26 new H-1 series helicopters. The legislation also directs the Navy to assess whether the Osprey could be used to replace the aging C-2A Greyhound aircraft currently performing the carrier onboard delivery mission. H.R. 4435 also increases funding for nuclear weapons activities—much of which is performed at Pantex—by $143.7 million. To help address the backlog of deferred maintenance on physical infrastructure in the nuclear weapons facilities, including Pantex, the legislation also increases funding for recapitalizing deferred maintenance programs by $39 million. Thornberry says H.R. 4435 is expected to be considered by the full House before Memorial Day. LOCAL HIGHLIGHTS: Bell Helicopter projects funded at $1.845 billion for the V-22 Osprey program, including 19 new aircraft, and $904 million for the Huey and Cobra (UH-1Y/AH-1Z) helicopters, including 26 new H-1 series helicopters. Directs the Navy to assess whether the Osprey could be used to replace the aging C-2A Greyhound aircraft currently performing the carrier onboard delivery mission. Bill increases funding for nuclear weapons activities—much of which is performed at Pantex—by $143.7 million. Increases funding for recapitalizing deferred maintenance programs by $39 million to help address the backlog of deferred maintenance on physical infrastructure in the nuclear weapons facilities, including Pantex. Authorizes funding for programs and missions at Sheppard Air Force Base. OVERALL BILL HIGHLIGHTS: Authorizes $521.3 billion in budget authority for the Department of Defense (DoD) and national security programs of the Department of Energy (DOE), as well as $79.4 billion for the war in Afghanistan and other overseas operations 1.8 percent pay raise for the troops in 2015, higher than the 1 percent pay raise found in the President’s budget proposal. At the same time, the bill includes a pay freeze for General and Flag Officers in FY 2015. Prohibit the use of funds to propose, plan for, or execute an additional base closure and realignment round (BRAC). Provides $45.3 million for behavioral and psychological health programs and efforts specifically for Special Operations Forces, including more than doubling funds to immediately increase the number of psychologists, social workers, nurse case managers, and operational psychologists embedded within units. The number of Special Operations Forces committing suicide has been at record highs for the past two years. Thornberry provision to return to an independent Office of Net Assessment (ONA) that reports directly to the Secretary of Defense. The organization is charged with identifying long-term opportunities and challenges for senior defense officials. Thornberry provision requiring DoD to develop a plan for implementing a periodic review and analysis of Pentagon personnel requirements for management headquarters. Thornberry amendment to reauthorize Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq (OSC-I) for an additional year. Thornberry provision to create Defense Audit Advisory Panel to increase congressional oversight and help the DoD achieve auditability. Eliminates the “good soldier defense” and also calls for a review of the terms of discharge for those who are victims of sexual offenses to ensure that they have not been persecuted for reporting crimes. Several provisions to restrict the transfer of detainees held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. # # #
05.07.2014	Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following statement supporting the House’s vote to hold IRS official Lois Lerner in contempt of Congress, as well as a measure urging Attorney General Eric Holder to appoint a Special Counsel to immediately investigate the IRS for targeting groups because of their political beliefs: “It’s been more than a year since Congress learned that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) was unfairly scrutinizing conservative groups as they applied for tax-exempt status. The Administration has not been cooperative in getting to the bottom of this clear abuse of power. “The American people deserve to know their government will act to protect their constitutional rights and will not tolerate targeting based on political beliefs now or in the future. “For this reason, I voted to hold IRS official Lois Lerner in contempt of Congress for her refusal to testify about the IRS abuses. I also supported a bill calling on Attorney General Holder to immediately appoint an independent Special Counsel to further investigate these crimes. Under current law, the Attorney General is advised to appoint a Special Counsel when a criminal investigation presents a conflict of interest for the Department of Justice and is in the public’s best interest. Both tests are met in this case. “The public cannot have confidence in the Administration investigating itself. The DOJ attorney appointed to spearhead the investigation is a major donor to the Democratic National Committee and President Obama’s political campaigns. The American people need the assurance that this investigation will be conducted objectively, without political bias, and that justice will be served. A special prosecutor should be appointed.” ###
05.05.2014	Today, Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) announced Amarillo High School’s M’Kayla DeLeon as the winner of the 2014 Congressional Art Competition. M’Kayla DeLeon, daughter of Mark and Debbie DeLeon, submitted a photograph entitled “Rustic Reflection” to represent the 13th District of Texas. The photograph will be displayed in the hallway of the United States Capitol for an entire year. “Rustic Reflection” is a photograph of an old-fashioned car that has been in the DeLeon family for approximately 30 years. “It has sentimental value to my family,” said M’Kayla when asked about her work. “It represents the challenges you face going to new places and into your career, but also the opportunity you have to steer your own life. It’s up to you.” Created in 1982, the Congressional Art Competition is an annual competition for high school students from all 435 U.S. congressional districts and territories to showcase their artistic talent and creativity in a year-long exhibit in Washington, D.C. Winners of the competition are invited to attend an awards ceremony in Washington, D.C. where they will be able to see their art displayed in the Capitol and meet with their U.S. Representative. “I look forward to congratulating M’Kayla in person and seeing her artwork as I walk to and from the Capitol,” said Rep. Mac Thornberry. “We had many impressive pieces this year, and I thank all the students for their hard work.” M’Kayla’s graphic design teacher, Micah Muehlhausen, said, “M’Kayla is an outstanding young lady. She has such an eye for photography, something I discovered this year. She’s an extremely hard worker, working both at home and at school. It doesn’t matter what the challenge is, M’Kayla always surpasses it with stride.” In addition to the winner, Thornberry hosted a 2014 People’s Choice Award Competition where 13th District residents could view the art online and cast their votes for their favorite piece. Kagen Dunn, daughter of Angela and Jason Dunn, won this year’s recognition. Kagen’s acrylic painting, entitled “T-Bone,” is featured below. Kagen is a senior at Wichita Falls High School. 1st Place: Rustic Reflection People's Choice Award: T-Bone # # #
04.04.2014	According to the 2013 Norton Report, 41 percent of online adults reported falling victim to online attacks such as malware, viruses, hacking, and other scams. This breaks down to around 378 million victims per year, costing approximately $113 billion. For this reason, Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-TX) hosted a briefing with Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) to announce the release of the VOICE, “the Victims of Internet Crime Empowered,” website (www.victimvoice.org). People who either have been a victim of identity theft, another cybercrime, or just want more information about how to protect themselves from crimes like these should visit this website. Created by Symantec and the National White Collar Crime Center, the VOICE site serves as a comprehensive, trustworthy resource for both the victims of Internet-related crimes and the public at large. It offers educational tools to guide cybercrime victims through the recovery process and provide knowledge of how to stay protected in the future. “The security of our computers and the information stored on them is at risk every minute of every day,” said Rep. Mac Thornberry, who serves on the House Armed Services Committee and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. “The damage from the information that is being stolen, manipulated, or destroyed is costing us billions of dollars, risking jobs, chipping away at our competitiveness, and undermining our national security. It is critical the public and private sectors work together to prevent, protect, and prosecute cybercrime when and where we can.” The site also includes contact information for agencies and organizations that offer immediate help to victims and links to websites that provide further resources. The most notable link is to the Internet Crime Complaint Center (IC3) website, which accepts online Internet crime complaints from victims to be investigated by law enforcement. Thornberry serves as the vice chairman of the House Armed Services Committee and serves on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. In 2011, he led a Cybersecurity Task Force to guide House legislative action on growing national security concerns. # # #
03.27.2014	Washington, D.C. –Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following statement after the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) announced the Lesser Prairie Chicken will be listed as a threatened species: "The decision of the Obama Administration to list the Lesser Prairie Chicken as a threatened species is a great disappointment for West Texas families, our businesses, and our economy. It is clear that the overwhelming factor affecting the numbers and range of the chickens is the on-going drought. It is unfortunate that the government seems to listen more to activists than to the people who actually live and work on the land. "Voluntary groups of farmers, ranchers, and energy producers, as well as five state governments, banded together in an unprecedented effort to protect and conserve habitat. But the message from this decision is that the voluntary efforts will never be good enough for the heavy-handed regulators. "This announcement highlights, once again, that the Endangered Species Act (ESA) is outdated and the process to consider species for listing is severely flawed. This law has been manipulated and misused regularly, and the entire law needs to be repealed, or at least reformed, in the interest of jobs, the economy, and common sense. "There is no doubt that this misguided decision will be challenged in the courts, and we will pursue efforts in Congress to prevent its implementation." # # #
03.26.2014	Congressman Mac Thornberry, Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, has signed a letter to the President urging the administration to share available intelligence information with the government of Ukraine that would enable it to take measures to protect its sovereignty. It also asks the President to “take precautionary steps to improve the posture and readiness of U.S. military forces in the region, and pursue additional measures to bolster the security of our eastern and central European allies and partners.” Along with Thornberry, the letter is signed by Committee Chairman Buck McKeon, as well as other subcommittee Chairmen Randy Forbes, Joe Wilson, Michael Turner, Mike Rogers, Rob Wittman, and Joe Heck. Thornberry said on the release of the letters: “Our nation’s security and much of the world depend on American presidential leadership.” He continued, “With events in Eastern Europe unfolding so quickly, he has a responsibility to provide the public and those directly affected with information they need to understand threats and respond accordingly.” You can read a copy of the entire letter by clicking here. # # #
03.26.2014	Are you, your child, or someone you know a budding high school artist who would like to see his or her work displayed in the United States Capitol? Today, U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-TX) kicks off the 2014 Congressional Art Competition. All 13th District high school students are eligible to enter this annual, nationwide competition for a chance to have their art displayed in the United States Capitol for one entire year. The competition features one winner from each congressional district and territory in the United States. The winner will have the opportunity to attend an awards ceremony in Washington, D.C., see his or her artwork on display, and meet his or her U.S. Representative. “Every spring, I look forward to seeing the talent, creativity, and originality displayed by our high school artists,” said Rep. Mac Thornberry. “Seeing our young people working hard and getting involved always makes me proud.” Interested high school students should call Rep. Thornberry’s office at (202) 225-3706 or visit his webpage (/art) for more information on competition guidelines and a description of how to submit an entry. The deadline for submissions is Monday, April 21, 2014. Students may submit entries starting today. # # #
03.14.2014	On Saturday, April 5, the office of U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) will host the 13th District’s annual Service Academy Forum for high school students interested in pursuing an education at a United States service academy. The free, informational event will take place at the Amarillo Public Library’s Southwest Branch from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. This forum is designed for potential nominees in their junior or senior year of high school. However, all local students of any age, parents, and counselors are invited to attend. No R.S.V.P. is required. To be eligible to attend an academy, students must be at least 17 years old but not have passed their 23rd birthday by the entry date; must be a United States citizen; unmarried; and, have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. “Nominating students to a service academy is one of the highest privileges I have in Congress,” said Thornberry, who serves as the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. “We owe the deepest gratitude to the brave men and women who serve to protect our freedoms, and I applaud each and every student for their desire to answer this worthy calling.” At the event, representatives from the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, the U.S. Military Academy (West Point), and the U.S. Naval Academy will provide details on appointment procedures, daily life at the academies, and post-graduate military commitments, as well as answer any specific questions from the audience. Each applicant must receive a nomination from a Member of Congress in order to be considered. As a Member of Congress, Rep. Thornberry is allowed to nominate a limited number of students for each service academy per year. Applications for nominations must be submitted to the Congressman’s Amarillo office by December 1 of a student’s senior year. After reviewing the congressional nominations and student applications, the service academies will make final selections and offers of appointment in the spring. Accepted nominees will receive a free education, including tuition and room and board, in return for an agreement to serve as an officer in the military for a minimum of five years after graduation. For more information on the forum or the academy application process, please visit Rep. Thornberry’s website or Facebook page. AMARILLO SERVICE ACADEMY FORUM WHO: Representatives from Rep. Mac Thornberry’s Office Service Academy Representatives WHAT: U.S. Service Academy Forum for prospective students & parents WHEN: Saturday, April 5 from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. CT WHERE: Amarillo Public Library – Southwest Branch 6801 Southwest 45th Avenue Amarillo, TX 79109
03.12.2014	On Saturday, March 29, the office of U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) will host the annual 13th District’s Service Academy Forum for high-school students interested in pursuing an education at a United States Service Academy. The free, informational event will take place at the Region 9 Education Service Center from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. This forum is designed for potential nominees in their junior or senior year of high school. However, all local students of any age, parents, and counselors are invited to attend. No R.S.V.P. is required. To be eligible to attend an academy, students must be at least 17 years old, but not have passed the 23rd birthday by the entry date; must be a United States citizen; unmarried; and, have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. “Nominating students to a service academy is one of the highest privileges I have in Congress,” said Thornberry, who serves as the vice chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. “We owe the deepest gratitude to the brave men and women who serve to protect our freedoms, and I applaud each and every student for their desire to answer this worthy calling.” At the event, representatives from the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, the U.S. Military Academy (West Point), and the U.S. Naval Academy will provide details on appointment procedures, daily life at the academies, and post-graduate military commitments, as well as answer any specific questions from the audience. Each applicant must receive a nomination from a member of Congress in order to be considered. As a member of Congress, Rep. Thornberry is allowed to nominate a limited number of students for each service academy per year. Applications for nominations must be submitted to the Congressman’s Wichita Falls office by December 1 of a student’s senior year. After reviewing the congressional nominations and student applications, the service academies will make final selections and offers of appointment in the spring. Accepted nominees will receive a free education, including tuition and room and board, in return for an agreement to serve as an officer in the military for a minimum of five years after graduation. For more information on the forum or the academy application process, please visit Rep. Thornberry’s website or Facebook page. WICHITA FALLS SERVICE ACADEMY FORUM WHO: Representatives from Rep. Mac Thornberry’s Office Service Academy Representatives WHAT: U.S. Service Academy Forum for prospective students & parents WHEN: Saturday, March 29 from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. CT WHERE: Region 9 Education Service Center 301 Loop 11 Wichita Falls, TX 76306
01.29.2014	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following comments after the House passed the five-year farm bill with strong bipartisan support on a vote of 251 to 166: "Agriculture and all of its supporting industries desperately need a five-year farm bill and the stability it brings. This legislation offers that stability after years of uncertainty, waiting, and short-term fixes, and it does so ahead of the spring planting season. The biggest issue facing agriculture in my district and throughout most of Texas is the drought. I appreciate the permanent livestock disaster program in this bill, which livestock producers of all sizes throughout our region of the country will readily welcome. I believe that the reforms made to commodity programs are sorely needed and will strengthen the political viability of these programs into the future. Having additional risk management tools available to producers who are increasingly competing in a global market should be quite helpful as well. At the same time, I am profoundly disappointed that the bill does not take the opportunity to resolve some very important issues affecting livestock. The country of original labeling (COOL) rule proposed by the Administration is unworkable and puts our livestock industry at a significant disadvantage. That requirement should have been repealed, and we should continue to work to repeal it. Similarly, Congress has regularly prevented the implementation of the controversial provisions of the GIPSA marketing rule through the appropriation process. I assume we will continue to do so, but it would have been better to remove that threat permanently. There was also a missed opportunity to resolve the issue related to horse processing, and so the needless suffering of old and unwanted horses will continue, as will the effects on the value of horses across the country. Finally, I would strongly prefer to make greater reforms in food stamps and other nutrition programs, such as those contained in the House-passed version. But, given the realities of the political situation in Washington, I believe that the savings and reforms in this bill are a step, at least, in the right direction." More information can be found at this link provided by the House Agriculture Committee and highlighted below. Farm Policy Reforms The Agricultural Act of 2014 includes the most significant reduction to farm policy spending in history by improving agricultural programs. Repeals Direct Payments and limits producers to risk management tools that offer protection when they suffer significant losses. Limits on payments are reduced, eligibility rules are tightened, and means tests are streamlined to make farm programs more accountable. Strengthens crop insurance, a successful public/private partnership that ensures farmers invest in their own risk management. Provides historic reforms to dairy policy by repealing outdated and ineffective dairy programs. Offers producers a new, voluntary, margin protection program without imposing government-mandated supply controls. Supports small businesses and beginning farmers and ranchers with training and access to capital. Food Stamp Reforms The Agricultural Act of 2014 makes the first reforms to the food stamp program since the welfare reforms of 1996 while maintaining critical food assistance to families in need. Closes the “heat-and-eat” loophole that artificially increases benefit levels when states provide nominal LIHEAP assistance. Establishes a 10-state pilot to empower states to engage able-bodied adults in mandatory work programs. Prohibits USDA from engaging in SNAP recruitment activities, and advertising SNAP on TV, radio, billboards and through foreign governments. Ensures illegal immigrants, lottery winners, traditional college students, and the deceased do not receive benefits. Ensures SNAP recipients are not receiving benefits in multiple states. Prevents abuses such as water dumping to exchange bottles for cash. Demands outcomes from existing employment and training programs. Prohibits states from manipulating SNAP benefit levels by eliminating medical marijuana as an allowable medical expense. Allows states to pursue retailer fraud through a pilot investigation program and crack down on trafficking through data mining, terminal ID, and other measures. Increases assistance for food banks. Additional Reforms & Regulatory Relief The Agricultural Act of 2014 includes multiple regulatory relief provisions benefitting agricultural and forestry industries. Consolidates 23 duplicative and overlapping conservation programs into 13. Provides one year of full funding for the Payment In Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, which provides funding for vital services in communities containing federal lands. Provides certainty to the forest products industry by clarifying that forest roads and related silvicultural activities should not be treated as a point source under the Clean Water Act. Creates a permanent subcommittee within the EPA Science Advisory Board to conduct peer review of EPA actions that would negatively impact agriculture. Enhances coordination between USDA, EPA, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) regarding the conflict between laws governing pesticide use and the Endangered Species Act. Enhances coordination between USDA and the U.S. FWS regarding actions taken to manage the lesser prairie chicken. Eliminates duplicative reporting requirements for seed importers; requires improved economic analysis of FDA regulations. ###
01.28.2014	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following comments after the President's 2014 State of the Union address: "Tonight’s speech did feature one great moment, and it came at the end, when everyone in the Chamber stood to salute Cory Remsburg, an Army veteran badly injured in a roadside attack in Afghanistan. I was glad to see the President recognize this brave young man, but I don’t believe he should have waited until the end of his speech to do so. In fact, speaking to our men and women in uniform and the rest of the country about national security is one of the Commander-in-Chief’s top responsibilities. This President does far too little of it in my opinion. Overall, the speech featured a lot of recycled rhetoric and campaign promises aimed at his political base rather than the whole of the country. For example, look at his glowing comments about Obamacare. The practical experience of millions of Americans, including folks in our area, stands in stark contrast to the President's stories. That is part of the reason I asked one of our local physicians to join me at this speech--because he has the experience to tell the real story behind government interference in health care. The rest of the story is the President is trying hard to remain relevant. He knows the House will not pass a lot of his agenda and his popularity is sinking. So he is threatening to bypass Congress. And he is taking credit for things he has little to do with---like the success the private sector is having with energy. In short, I think the country would be better off if the President focused on solving problems rather than the politics of the 2014 elections."
01.27.2014	Amarillo physician Dr. Richard McKay will be in the nation’s Capitol Tuesday as an attendee of the 2014 State of the Union address. He will be a guest of area Congressman Mac Thornberry. “I spent last week listening to folks share their experiences with the Affordable Care Act. I hope the President will recognize the confusion and hardship his health law is causing in our part of Texas and across the country,” said Rep. Thornberry. “I think inviting someone like Dr. McKay, who spent nearly 40 years as a doctor, would be a pretty powerful reminder that folks are hurting outside the Washington beltway and the President should give fewer speeches and do something about it,” continued Thornberry. Dr. McKay, who is a native and long-time resident of Amarillo, practiced as an Orthopedic Surgeon for 38 years. Now retired, he is a Past President of the Texas Orthopedic Association, as well as a Past President of the Potter/Randall County Medical Society. He also served as an Orthopedic Delegate to the American Medical Association (AMA). He is married to his wife Gerry, has two sons (Mark and Steven), and four grandchildren. “I believe Mac is the most informed congressman on health care issues who is not a doctor. Part of the reason is because he listens and then takes what he hears and gives us a voice in Washington,” said Dr. McKay. “As a physician, I believe the President’s law will have terrible consequences for American health care and I want to make sure that message is heard while I am in Washington,” he finished.
01.16.2014	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed a government spending bill that provides discretionary funding for the entire federal government for Fiscal Year 2014. The legislation passed with a bipartisan vote of 359 to 67. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted in favor of the bill. “Republicans are working every day to change the culture of spending in Washington. With this bill, we have cut discretionary spending four years in a row--for the first time in nearly two decades--with spending reductions total more than $150 billion,” said Rep. Thornberry. “The bill is obviously not perfect, but it is progress. It protects key priorities for our country, notably our national security, while reducing regulatory burdens and requiring tougher oversight of agencies. And it also offers the country some much-needed stability,” continued Thornberry, who serves as the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. The Omnibus spending bill contains all 12 regular appropriations bills for Fiscal Year 2014. Notably, the bill prevents the next round of sequester cuts, which would imperil military readiness and national security. The bill funds important Department of Defense programs and projects, offers a pay raise for our troops, and provides resources to help prepare for current and future threats. The defense portion of the bill also includes funding for local national security facilities, including Sheppard Air Force base in Wichita Falls. It also includes funding for both the Pantex plant and multiple programs at the Bell Helicopter facility in Amarillo. Other highlights of the spending bill include: Military Retiree Pension “Fix”: Amends the Ryan-Murray agreement to ensure that medically retired Armed Forces personnel and survivor benefit plan recipients receive their full pensions. Post Offices: The bill bars the Postal Service from closing rural post offices. GIPSA: Restricts the Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration (GIPSA) from implementing regulations that allow harmful federal government intrusion in the private market for livestock and poultry which would cost the industry billions. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA): The bill reduces funding for the EPA by $143 million below the fiscal year 2013 enacted level. Stop certain EPA regulations: Contains provisions to exempt livestock producers from overly burdensome EPA greenhouse gas regulations. Light Bulbs: The bill prohibits the Department of Energy from forcing manufacturers to stop producing incandescent light bulbs. Benghazi: Requires that before the U.S. can send any more foreign aid to Libya, Secretary of State Kerry must report that the Libyan government is helping to find those responsible for the Benghazi attack. Fast & Furious : Includes a provision preventing any funding from being used to implement any future Fast & Furious type activity. Life: The Omnibus maintains all existing pro-life policy and funding provisions that have been carried in appropriations legislation in previous years, including the Hyde Amendment, a ban on public funding for abortions in the District of Columbia, and a ban on abortion funding for federal prisoners. The bill also reduces Title X family planning funding by $10 million. Obamacare: The bill provides no new funding for ObamaCare, rescinds $10 million from the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), and prevents the Secretary of HHS from raiding the Prevention and Public Health “slush” fund for ObamaCare exchanges. National Labor Relations Board (NLRB): The bill decreases funding for the agency. In addition, the legislation continues a provision intended to stop the NLRB’s harmful anti-business regulations related to the implementation of “e-Card Check,” which could promote coercion in union elections. GITMO: Prohibits any funding from being used to transfer detainees in Guantanamo Bay from being transferred to the U.S. and for construction or acquisition of a prison in the U.S. to house such detainees.
01.16.2014	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-TX), vice chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following comments after Chairman Buck McKeon announced he will be retiring from Congress at the end of this term: "Buck McKeon guides the House Armed Services Committee with exceptional commitment to our nation’s security and with the exceptional respect of all of our colleagues. During a very challenging time, he remains a devoted advocate for our men and women in uniform. His retirement from Congress will be a real loss. I appreciate the confidence and the support the Chairman has expressed in and of me. At the appropriate time, I look forward to visiting with our colleagues on the Steering Committee about succeeding Buck, but we have a lot of work to do over the coming year. Completing the annual defense authorization bill, continuing important oversight and reforms, and supporting the men and women who serve in an increasingly dangerous and complex world will require the best of all of us." ###
01.09.2014	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-TX) and Senators Mark Warner (D-VA), John Cornyn (R-TX), and Tim Kaine (D-VA) introduced bipartisan legislation on Thursday requiring an independent Office of Net Assessment (ONA) within the Department of Defense. The organization, which is charged with identifying long-term opportunities and challenges for senior defense officials, would be given a separate, dedicated budget and report directly to the Secretary of Defense. The current Office of Net Assessment was formed in 1973 to focus on developing and coordinating the comparative analysis of the standing, trends, and future prospects of U.S. military capabilities relative to other nations and threats. ONA reports have covered topics ranging from the Soviet Union and nuclear conflict, to the Chinese security apparatus, religious warfare, U.S. military superiority, and more. Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel recently announced that the office would be placed beneath the Undersecretary for Policy, which would jeopardize ONA's independence and objectivity. "Right now, the Pentagon and our country's security are facing serious challenges. But, with challenge comes opportunity," said Rep. Thornberry, who serves as the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. "To take advantage of opportunities in defense, we need creative ideas, innovation, and long-term strategies that are immune from politics and parochial interests in Washington. The best way to ensure that Pentagon leadership continues to receive these kinds of honest assessments is to require the ONA be an independent office, with its own budget reporting directly to the Secretary," Thornberry continued. "The Office of Net Assessment has served as a beacon of innovative and independent strategic thinking for over four decades," said Senator Warner. "At a time of increasingly diverse threats from all across the world, an independent ONA that reports directly to the Secretary will help ensure that the U.S. retains a strategic advantage," Warner continued. "The Office of Net Assessment's ability to produce independent, strategic assessments of our defense policy has been invaluable to our national security for decades," said Senator Kaine, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "The objectivity of our long-term defense strategies - free from partisan politics or other factors - relies upon an independent office with a direct reporting channel to the Secretary." In October, six former Secretaries of Defense, including Robert Gates and Harold Brown, sent a letter to Defense Secretary Hagel asking him to preserve ONA, saying that the country has been "fortunate" to have such an office and that it has "repeatedly paid enormous dividends during some of the most challenging periods in our recent history."
12.12.2013	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following comments after voting to support the two-year budget agreement: "This budget agreement maintains the sequester savings and then saves even more. It also spares our country’s military from bearing the brunt of deeper cuts. In 2014, all of the additional spending cuts fall on the Department of Defense, and this bill replaces those cuts with modest changes in mandatory spending. It is not nearly enough, but it begins to reform that part of the budget where most of the spending is. It does all of this without raising taxes. More specifically, this agreement keeps the strict spending caps set under the Budget Control Act (BCA) in place. It also achieves 100 percent of the Budget Control Act’s deficit reduction, but goes even further by reducing the deficit an additional $23 billion. The difference is that this new agreement achieves that deficit reduction in a smarter, more targeted way than the arbitrary sequester cuts required by the BCA. Even the user fees cut spending in this agreement. When airline passengers pay a greater share of the costs for their security, when private companies pay more for a federal guarantee of their pensions, or when federal employees pay more of their retirement costs, the taxpayer pays less. That is a small but commonsense victory. This agreement is far from ideal. In many areas, it does not go as far as I would like. There are provisions, such as modest reforms to retired military Cost of Living Adjustments, I prefer were not included."
11.18.2013	REMARKS AS PREPARED FOR DELIVERY House Armed Services Committee Vice Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-TX) addressed the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) today on the topic of Defense Reform. Below is the text of his remarks as prepared for delivery: I appreciate opportunity to be back at CSIS as well as all of the serious, important work that goes on here. In all of my interactions with CSIS experts over the years, I have benefited tremendously from their guidance and ideas and know for certain that the work that goes on here makes an important difference in our national discussions and in the course of our nation. Y’all are nice to come listen to me, but we could all benefit by listening to and taking notes from Dr. Hamre, David Berteau, Pierre Chao and others here on the topic of getting more value for our defense dollar--one of the many subjects in which CSIS makes important contributions. I do have to note, however, that the last time I was at CSIS was for a cyber exercise in which I was asked to play the President, and Dr. Hamre has not invited me back since -- until today. It must have been deeply disturbing for him. Chairman McKeon and I have been talking about a focused defense reform effort for some time. Among the issues he has asked me to tackle are: acquisition reform; organizational bloat; and the security clearance process,something House Intel Chairman Rogers is also very interested in. Today, I’m just going to focus on the first of those topics, and I must confess that the first two questions that popped into my mind when the Chairman asked me to take on acquisition reform were: (1) is it possible; and (2) is it worth the effort. If that comes across as rather skeptical, then there is some reason for that. Every few years since I’ve been in Congress, we have passed some legislation on acquisition reform. It may be that some of it was helpful; some may have contributed to the problem. But looking at the whole picture, things are certainly no better – in fact the problem is in many ways worse – than it was 20 years ago. Let me give you a multiple choice question. A study was done to look at 6 specific problems in DOD programs: 1. schedule slippage 2. cost growth 3. lack of qualified personnel 4. high personnel turnover 5. inadequate cost estimation 6. insufficient training in managing contractors. What year? 1962, 1982, 2002, or 2012? It could have been any of them because the last 50 years, have seen 27 major gov studies and more than 300 nongovernmental, cited by Dr. Fox in his book. As Frank Kendall mentioned here a few days ago, defense acquisition has been a significant issue for us since the Revolutionary War. At the same time, as Dr. Hamre has written, one of the key factors in our success in world leadership has been that “industry is the indispensable partner to our armed forces in the defense of the country." We harnessed the energy and creative power of the profit motive to national security.”- which made a key difference in the Cold War. So, it’s a fundamental strength and yet a persistent problem. Most all of the studies over these 50 years make essentially the same points. During the same time period, there have been lots of legislative attempts to improve things with unsatisfactory results. So, we have to go deeper; learn why previous attempts have not been as successful as hoped; and get at root causes of problems, not merely symptoms. We are talking about a lot of money. In FY 2012 – DOD obligated $360 b on federal contracts = 10% of entire federal budget and 52% of DOD’s obligations. (CRS) GAO testified 2 weeks ago about the trends in major acquisition systems. Found that from 2008 to 2012, The change in developments costs from first full estimate increased from 42% to 49%; (7% worse) Change in total acquisition costs from first full estimate increased from 25% to 38%; (13% worse) Average delay in initial operating capability increased from 22 months to 27 months. It’s not just acquisition of weapons and equipment. The Pentagon spends more on service contracts than on weapons. There it is even harder to know if taxpayers getting good value. We do know that contract spending down 10% in past 5 yrs, but bid protests up by 45%. (CRS) It seems that there is hardly a contract award without a protest. What is the effect of these trends? They waste a lot of money and effort. More tail and less tooth. More overhead and less fighting capability. Let me give you another historical test. Who said this and when?: “As long as we operate a system where the checkers (those charged with the responsibility of evaluating and approving) outnumber the doers (those responsible for carrying out the work), the doers are condemned to spend their time doing paper work for the checkers.” Could have been any time within the past year or two at any or all of the defense manufacturing facilities I’ve visited, but in fact it was: Adm. Hyman Rickover, quoted in a letter from Deputy Secy of Defense David Packard to George Shultz, Director of OMB on Oct. 27, 1970. We are to the point where it is estimated that 1/3 procurement dollars go to overhead. Not as agile and responsive as need to be in a dangerous, volatile world. We face this festering problem of getting good value for taxpayers in a timely way within the larger context of two facts: 1. The world is not getting any safer or any less complex. As he retired in July, Deputy CIA Director Morrell said that he didn’t “remember a time when there have been so many national security issues on the front burner as there are today.”This from a veteran of 33 years in the CIA. Just a brief list of challenges like -- cyber; proliferation; terrorism; Syria, Russia, China, Iran, N. Korea, alliances – makes the point. 2. Defense budgets will be tight as far as the eye can see. We have dug ourselves a deep hole of debt; We hope the economy improves. We need to reform entitlement programs where most of the spending is. We need to find a way to get our fiscal house in order without further across-the-board cuts in sequestration. We need more stable funding because the disruptions caused by uncertainty are undermining every attempt to improve the system and are costing us dearly. But if everything works out just the way I want it, it is not enough. I know of no scenario that envisions a return to large yearly increases in the defense budget, short of some catastrophic event. Even in the best case, we’ve got to face a dangerous, complicated world with limited resources. So we must get more defense for the dollar. That’s the reason Chairman McKeon asked me to spearhead an effort on these three interrelated topics, focusing first on how the Pentagon buys goods and services. It's purpose is not to cut defense spending or make it easier to cut defense. Purpose is to get more defense–more value– out of the dollars we spend. There is a bipartisan and bicameral interest in acting. (Rep. Smith, Sens. Levin, Inhofe) We were very encouraged with what Frank Kendall had to say here 10 days ago. We will be happy to sit down with him and go line-by-line through the existing regulations to thin them out and simplify. All along the way, It is, of course, not only essential to work with DOD, but also with the Services up and down the chain of command. We also need industry participation. The House Armed Services Committee had hearing on Oct 29 looking at 25 years of acquisition reform Continue conversations with people across the government and outside of government – so far, found a lot eagerness to participate. Expect working groups across organizations in coming months. We will have more hearings directly on the topic, but our goals will shape many, if not most, of our other hearings. We are not looking at this as 2 years study then come with massive bill Make progress along the way, as we can Answers are not all legislation – changes in our oversight and other activities. he questions we ask and the decisions we make at key milestones are an example of where we can influence the process. One suggestion was have a hearing on a program that has gone well, pat them on the back, don’t just haul up the ones that run into problems Obviously, we need your input on how to make this work -- Not only on what needs to be done but how to get it done. Let me get back to my 2 questions: 1. Is it possible?; 2. is it worth it? 1. Is it possible? – A lot of understandable skepticism goes with at least 50 yrs of frustration. There are those who argue that there are only so many things you can try – centralize or decentralize; greater flexibility or more rigid mandates – emphasize government or emphasize contractors – we’ve tried ‘em all, not going to get better. We acknowledge that what we’ve done in the past has not worked as well as we hoped and that we will not make things better by piling on new mandates, new oversight offices, or greater micromanagement. But, if automakers can take a car from concept to customer in less than 24 months; if a computer company can change its manufacturing requirements in a day; if Boeing can develop and field a new commercial aircraft in less than 5 yrs; Then we should be able to do better than we are doing now for the men and women who risk their lives to protect us and defend our freedom. Key factor we have to focus on is -- people. Making it harder and harder for the people who know what they’re doing to serve in key positions effectively – at all levels. We have to hone in on reasons that good people in the system act rationally but not in the overall best interests of getting the best value for the money. Incentives are important. Key question is: what does the system encourage someone to do? Spend it or lose it. Pierre Chao notes that the system would rather pay $1 billion with 5% profit than pay $500 million with 20% profit for the same thing. Those things have to change. We may well have before us a unique opportunity to change some of these built-in incentives - a set of circumstances today that give us a better chance and also a greater need of getting down to those root causes than at any time in the past 50 years. Let me offer just a few of them, emerging from our hearings: 1. Defense industrial based consolidated – gone from 50 major contractors to 6 in last 25 yrs 2. DoD is becoming less influential buyer, and companies focusing on other customers. The harder and more expensive it is to do business with DoD, the fewer the companies that will. 3. Commercial tech are more often in the lead on innovation – we have to take advantage of it. 4. Data improving – giving us greater understanding of what is really going on. 5. Other countries are not sitting still 6. Iraq and Afghanistan proved what acquisition can do in saving lives – yet set up separate systems to acquire high priority items - MRAP’s – to get around normal acquisition process. The DoD is in transition Not only is it possible, it is a necessity, and the time is right. But is it worth the effort? Our goal is to help the Pentagon be a smarter buyer of goods and services. And to help get top quality weapons, equipment, and services contributing to our security quicker The difference to our security that comes from getting more defense for the dollar and from having a more agile responsive system is enormous. In his book reviewing the history of warfare since 1500, Max Boot writes, "Innovation has been speeding up. ... . That means that keeping up with the pace of change is getting harder than ever, and the risks of getting left behind are rising. Today, there is no room for error." That point was made over and over this weekend at the Reagan Defense Forum at the Reagan Library in California, that the pace of technological innovation is incredibly rapid, and speeding up at the time. The British military writer, Sir Basil Liddell Hart wrote in 1944: “Military history is filled with the record of military improvements that have been resisted by those who have profited richly from them. Between the development of new weapons or new tactics and their adoption there has always been a time-lag, often of generations. And that time-lag has often decided the fate of nations.” I won’t say that the fate of our nation depends on the success of this project. But I do know that there is a lot at stake, And that we have to do better, And that to overcome 50 years of frustration, We will need your help.
10.31.2013	Citing the importance of protecting private property rights and concerns over the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) aggressive efforts to expand its authority, U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) yesterday introduced the Defense of Environment and Property Act of 2013, H.R. 3377. The bill redefines the term "navigable waters" in the Clean Water Act (CWA) as waters that are navigable-in-fact in an effort to protect private property owners from regulatory expansion by the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers. The Senate version of the bill was introduced by Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY) earlier this year. "This bill is a simple, commonsense way to protect private landowners from regulatory overreach by the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers,” said Rep. Thornberry. “Everyone recognizes the importance of safe, abundant water, especially folks who live and work in our part of Texas. But an expansion of federal regulatory power over water resources would have serious consequences for those who earn their living from the land, for property rights, and for the quality of life of many Americans," Thornberry continued. The current definition in the CWA simply states that the term "navigable waters" means "the waters of the United States, including the territorial seas." There have been disputes between Congress, federal agencies, and the Supreme Court about how exactly to interpret that definition, which has left private landowners with uncertainty. The EPA has announced it wants to create a new rule “clarifying Clean Water Act (CWA) jurisdiction.” Depending upon the proposed change, the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers could have the authority to regulate almost any wet area on private land that has some connection to a navigable body of water. The policy change could deem roadside ditches, farm ponds, culverts, and temporary wet spots as “waters of the U.S.” under control of the federal government. "Environmental protection must be balanced with the constitutional right to private property," Sen. Paul said. "I have spoken with several Americans who have fallen victim to the EPA and Army Corps' aggressive breach of power. This act will restore common sense to the federal jurisdiction over navigable waters, place necessary limitations on out-of-control government agencies and protect our right to private property." Rep. Thornberry's and Sen. Paul's bills will do the following: Redefine “navigable waters” to explicitly clarify that waters must actually be navigable in fact, or “permanent or continuously flowing bodies of water that form geographical features commonly known as streams, oceans, rivers and lakes that are connected to waters that are navigable-in-fact.” Exclude ephemeral or intermittent streams – the streams that sometimes form when rain falls – from federal jurisdiction. Restrain the EPA and the Army Corps from regulating or “interpreting” the definition of a navigable water without Congressional authorization. Protect the rights of states to have primary authority over the land and water within their borders. Prohibit federal agents from entering private property without the express consent of the landowner. Require the government to pay double the value of the land to any landowner whose property value is diminished by a wetlands designation. Senator Paul introduced S.890 on May 7, 2013 in the Senate with Senators Lee, McConnell, Rubio, and Vitter.
10.30.2013	eNewsletter|Facebook|Twitter|Mac’s Blog|YouTube|Video Mailbox FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Jon Corley October 29, 2013 (202) 225-3706 Armed Services Chairman Taps Thornberry to Lead Reform Effort WASHINGTON, D.C. - House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard P. "Buck" McKeon today announced that Vice Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) will lead a long-term effort to reform the Department of Defense, including a hard look at acquisition. You can view the Chairman’s press release by clicking here. "This is a very important initiative that will span the next several years, and I am excited to be the one who will spearhead it. The reality is that the Department of Defense will be operating under tight budgets for the foreseeable future, but I know we can work with them to find ways to operate more efficiently and maintain a high level of national security and operational readiness," Thornberry said. Chairman McKeon made the announcement at an Armed Services Committee hearing today. He said: "While this Committee has led successful efforts to improve the way the Department acquires items and services, there are still significant challenges facing the defense acquisition system. We cannot afford a costly and ineffective acquisition system, particularly when faced with devastating impacts of repeated budget cuts and sequestration. The Congress, together with the Department of Defense and industry, must be willing to do the hard work to find root causes, look past band-aid fixes and parochial interests, and have the courage to implement meaningful, lasting reform. To this end, I have asked our Vice Chairman, Mr. Thornberry, in consultation with our ranking member, to engage in a long-term DOD reform effort that includes a hard look at acquisition." Vice Chairman Thornberry wrote an op-ed for Real Clear Defense today outlining his goals for the new acquisition reform effort. Reforming a Defense Acquisition System That Costs Money, Lives By Vice Chairman Mac Thornberry Real Clear Defense October 29, 2013 Full text below A scan of any week’s headlines makes clear that the world is not getting any safer, nor are our security challenges getting any simpler. We face a complex array of threats, known and unknown. Yet, we will have to meet those threats with tight defense budgets for the foreseeable future. Even if Congress and the President can agree to find other savings to replace further defense cuts under sequestration -- which we should -- the United States will still have to meet essentially unlimited threats with quite limited resources. That means it is more important than ever to get the most value possible out of each dollar spent on our national security. Too much of the money spent now is not used as efficiently or as effectively as it should be. Upward of 10 percent of the entire federal discretionary budget goes to buying things for our troops, ranging from tanks to toilet paper. Reform of defense acquisition – the goods as well as the services we buy – must be a top priority. There are a lot of good people in and out of government who work hard to see that our military is provided with the best. But they operate in a system that too often works against them.Heavy federal regulations drive up the cost of military hardware. There are nearly 2000 pages of acquisition regulations on the books, many of which have not been reviewed in years. Too often, Congress and the Pentagon respond to cost overruns by adding another law or an additional oversight office. The situation has gotten so bad that in order to supply our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, entire new streamlined procurement systems were created in order to circumvent the normal process. To his credit, Secretary Hagel recently announced an effort to cut 20 per cent of headquarters personnel over the next several years. But cuts alone, whether in people or in programs, will not fix the system. It will take Republicans and Democrats, House and Senate, Defense Department and Military Services, industry and trade associations, as well as smart, experienced individuals in and out of government all working together to fix these problems. The cost of the current system is enormous. Too much money and manpower is poured into processes and systems that do not yield a single bullet or minute of training. The weapons and equipment that are produced are too often late and over budget. But the cost is in more than just dollars.Delays in getting top quality equipment into the hands of our troops can cost lives, and the overall security of our nation can be affected. Later this week, a bust of Sir Winston Churchill will be unveiled for permanent display in the United States Capitol. Upon his appointment as Minister of Munitions toward the end of World War I, Churchill found decision-making at the Ministry a bureaucratic mess. He once remarked that “Everyone claims his margin at every stage, and the sum of the margins is usually ‘no’.”Churchill reorganized and simplified decision-making at the Ministry, and the results included a doubling or better in the production of tanks, field guns, and aircraft, all of which were crucial to final victory. The volatile security environment, our budget constraints, and changes in the way DOD operates have all come together to make this the time to act on defense reform in our own time. The bottom line is that we can do better – and we must. ### Click here to view an official biography of Rep. Mac Thornberry Click here to download an updated official photo of Rep. Mac Thornberry eNewsletter|Facebook|Twitter|Mac’s Blog|YouTube|Video Mailbox AMARILLO OFFICE 905 South Fillmore Street, Suite 520 Amarillo, Texas 79101 T (806) 371-8844 F (806) 371-7044 WASHINGTON, DC OFFICE 2329 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 T (202) 225-3706 F (202) 225-3486 WICHITA FALLS OFFICE 2525 Kell Blvd., Suite 406 Wichita Falls, Texas 76308 T (940) 692-1700 F (940) 692-0539 UPDATE SUBSCRIPTION OPTIONS|PRIVACY POLICY|CONTACT US
10.11.2013	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) is alerting 13th District residents to be on guard for possible scams and fraudulent websites meant to take advantage of people seeking to sign up for the Affordable Care Act, more commonly known as Obamacare. “There is a great deal of confusion among people when it comes to Obamacare, and there are a lot of scam artists out there who are already trying to prey on unsuspecting folks caught up in that confusion,” Thornberry said. “The problems occurring with the launch of the healthcare act's website have greatly increased the risk of potential identity and information theft.” The official Affordable Care Act website and its data hub, which stores sensitive user information like Social Security numbers and birthdates, have been panned by many technology and digital security experts as being vulnerable to malicious attacks by hackers. Even those not using the website are still at risk due to what is called “target spear phishing attacks” where scam artists send out emails pretending to be legitimate organizations in an effort to get people to follow nefarious web links or unknowingly submit personal information. “Everyone should always be extra vigilant but more so right now with the information they share over the Internet, especially via email. Criminals who could be thousands of miles away in foreign countries can be just as much of a threat to your security over the Internet,” said Thornberry. He emphasized that “people need to look at any email they receive or website they are told to go to in regards to signing up for Obamacare with a great deal of skepticism. Double check the sources and the web addresses before clicking on anything and especially before submitting personal information.” Security experts urge people to beware of: Anyone contacting you by phone, email, or text offering to help sign you up for insurance in exchange for a fee. Never agree to provide anyone that offers such a service in exchange for money or your personal information (e.g. bank account numbers, Social Security ID, credit card accounts); Government imposters. Government agencies may send information about the insurance exchanges to you via mail, but they will not call or email you requesting money or credit card numbers; Emails or phone calls from people using high-pressure tactics that try to scare or threaten you to submit sensitive information in order to avoid a fine or jail time; Bogus claims that you need an Obamacare card to receive insurance coverage; The only official website to sign up for the Affordable Care Act exchanges is www.healthcare.gov. Always make sure to type out the website name and never blindly follow any link that says it will take you to the official website. People should avoid any other site claiming to be able to sign them up for the insurance exchanges. Anyone receiving a telephone call or email seeking money or sensitive personal information should refuse the demand and report the threat to the Congressman’s office.
10.09.2013	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), the vice chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following comments in response to the Pentagon's decision to freeze death benefits for families of the fallen: "I am very concerned that the Administration’s attempt to play politics with the lives of Americans has extended even to military families who have lost loved ones. Ten days ago, before the government was partially shut down, the House and the Senate passed a bill to pay troops, civilians, and contractors in DOD. The President signed it into law on September 30. Amazingly, Pentagon lawyers seem to have gone out of their way to interpret that death benefits to surviving family members of fallen service members were not covered in this bill. Rather than squabble with lawyers, the House arranged an immediate vote to make it abundantly clear that such benefits should be paid. It passed the House today by a bipartisan vote of 425 to 0. Just as the House was about to vote on the measure, the White House announced that the President had instructed the Pentagon to “fix” the issue, and Secretary of Defense Hagel issued a statement this afternoon that his lawyers would allow an outside group to provide the benefits temporarily and then be reimbursed. This situation is ridiculous and unnecessary. The White House’s failure to develop a solution to a problem that they manufactured before the House forced the issue seems to be further evidence that the Administration is on a campaign to make the partial lapse of appropriations as painful and as dramatic as possible. If there is any group that should be exempt from such maneuvers, it should be families of those lost in battle. Secretary Hagel should focus all of his energies on getting the President to support and the Senate to pass the House-passed bill without delay."
10.09.2013	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following comments in reaction to the Obama Administration's instructions for Pantex to temporarily shut down operations: "Pantex has been instructed by the Obama Administration to begin preparing for a temporary shutdown of plant operations. The specifics are still being determined, but plant security will obviously remain in place to ensure nuclear materials remain secure. There is no reason whatsoever to instruct people who are essential to the security of our country, like workers at Pantex, not to show up to work. On Wednesday, the House is expected to vote on a targeted funding bill for Pantex and the rest of the nuclear weapons complex. It is one of nine separate spending bills -- including measures to pay troops, the National Guard, and Reserves and to fund veterans benefits -- the House has passed. The Senate should take up the Pantex bill and the other targeted funding bills, and the President should sign them." *****EDITOR'S NOTE: The vote is expected Friday; however, the House schedule can change as the funding situation evolves.
10.01.2013	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following comments after the Senate refused latest offer to resolve funding differences: "In the last ten days, I voted for three different proposals that keep the government open and operating while protecting Americans from Obamacare. Each was a reasonable and responsible option and each passed the House. Then, close to midnight last night, the House passed yet another measure calling on the Senate to work with us to resolve our differences. The Senate went home and came in this morning only to reject our offer to come to the table. This temporary shutdown is unnecessary and completely avoidable. It is irresponsible for anyone, especially the President of the United States, to say that he will not negotiate or compromise. The President and the Senate Democrats have made it clear that, while they recognize Obamacare is not ready for prime-time, they are not interested in even considering commonsense changes to this seriously flawed law. Apparently, they believe that this shutdown serves their political interests. They are putting politics before the people they work for, and that is unfortunate indeed. We are going to keep working in the House to do the right thing. Folks should encourage the Senate and the White House to do the same."
09.29.2013	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following comments after the House passed a Continuing Resolution to fund the government: "On Saturday, the House passed a government funding measure with a one year delay of Obamacare, including the new taxes set to take effect, and a permanent repeal of the new tax on medical devices included in the health care act. The Obama Administration has recently delayed several key provisions of the new health care law for businesses and other groups, and I think the American people deserve the same consideration and delay from this disastrous law that is clearly not ready to be implemented. The Continuing Resolution will now be sent back to the Senate. The House also voted on a separate bill that ensures that in the event that the government funding expires on September 30, military service members will be paid." ###
09.20.2013	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following remarks after the House voted to approve a “continuing resolution” (CR) that provides funding for the federal government and protects the American people from the President’s health care law: "Today, the House voted again to defund Obamacare, this time as part of the short-term government spending bill. The House continues to lead the fight to stop Obamacare, and we have been clear on this point - we want to prevent the terrible consequences that it will inflict on the American people, and we will use every opportunity we can to do so. Now, it is up to the Republicans and like-minded Democrats in the Senate to defend the American people from Obamacare."
09.11.2013	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Texas), vice chairman of the House Armed Services Committee and senior member of the House Intelligence Committee, made the following statement on the President's request for Congress to authorize the use of military force in Syria: "I listened carefully to the President’s speech to the nation and in recent days have participated in a number of hearings, classified briefings, and other meetings to study the Administration’s proposal to conduct military strikes in Syria. It is especially important in matters of national security for the nation to stand together whenever possible. Yet, I cannot support the President’s request for Congress to authorize the use of military force in Syria. I am extremely doubtful that the Russian offer to put Syria’s chemical weapons under international control is genuine or even possible. But regardless of the outcome of that offer, I am concerned that the Administration does not have a clear, obtainable military plan to advance effectively the national security interests of the United States. The decision to authorize the use of military force is one of the most serious and consequential of any decision put before the Congress. Any such request by the President must be given full consideration. National security is – and must remain -- above and beyond partisan politics. I have no doubt in the ability of our military to carry out the tasks given to it. But the Administration’s plan here is to use enough force to deter Assad from further use of chemical weapons but not so much force as to tip the scales in the Syrian civil war. It wants to use enough force to make it more difficult for Assad to use chemical weapons in the future but not so much force as to loosen the regime’s controls over those weapons, which would make it easier for terrorists to get their hands on them. I doubt that any use of military force, even by the best military in the world, can be calibrated so precisely. The Administration’s objectives here are not military objectives; they are political ones. The President is attempting to send a message to Assad and to the rest of the world, but he continues to give Assad a long list of what the United States is not going to do. Not only am I concerned that the President’s plan will not achieve the results it hopes for, but also that the ineffectual use of force may well be worse for American credibility in the world than no use of force at all. I acknowledge that there is a cost to inaction in this situation. There is also a cost to military action, and some of that cost – probably most of it – is, as always, unforeseeable. The risk of escalation, either through retaliatory actions or the need to conduct subsequent strikes to achieve deterrence, is considerable, and given the international dimensions of the conflict, any escalation may be long, expensive, and dangerous. The President has not persuaded the nation that his policy is the right one and has asked that the vote in Congress be postponed temporarily. Each Member of Congress has sworn an oath to “support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic.” The oath applies even if defending the country requires unpopular decisions. But it is dangerous and shortsighted to initiate a military conflict with so much risk and such little support among the American people. On this anniversary of the attacks on 9/11, I am very aware that in the modern world we cannot wait until attacked before we defend ourselves. This date is also a reminder, however, that those who killed 3,000 Americans 12 years ago and others like them are still plotting and planning to commit further atrocities against us. We must maintain a strong defense, and we must be prudent in deciding when and how to use it. I am troubled that the President would launch a new military operation while the defense budget is still being cut. And I am also troubled by this Administration’s history of rushing to the exits in Iraq and now Afghanistan. Obviously, Syria continues to be a fluid situation and one on which we must continue to consult with our allies and other interested nations. The U.S. should continue to utilize appropriate tools of influence to prevent the spread of the chaos. At some point in the future, U.S. military operations may be required, but I do not believe the President’s proposal should be approved at this time."
07.25.2013	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following statement after Attorney General Eric Holder announced his intention to continue scrutinizing Texas for voting rights discrimination: "The Supreme Court recently ruled that Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, which gives the federal government power to micromanage voting decisions in certain states, was unconstitutional. Today, Attorney General Holder announced he is going to do that to Texas anyway. It is utterly wrong and may be related to political efforts to change the way Texas votes. We are going to be looking at every option to stop Holder and to protect the right of Texas to make its own decisions just like any other state." ###
07.24.2013	Washington, DC -- Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following comments after the President's latest economic speech: "The House is passing bills while President Obama is passing the buck. The reality is the economy is still struggling in large part because of the big-government policies the President has staked his legacy on, with Obamacare leading the pack. The President’s economic formula continues to be excessive regulations, more taxes on small businesses, restrictions on domestic energy production, and massive federal spending. This afternoon, he made it clear he is recycling this failed formula in a series of campaign speeches that generate nothing more than news stories and a whole lot of panic among our businesses. Jobs are hard to find because businesses have no idea where the President will 'pivot' next. The House is not waiting for his lead. We are tackling Obamacare, regulation, entitlements, energy, and the government instead." ###
07.19.2013	Washington, DC -- Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) has been named one of the 50 “most influential politicos to watch” by Politico, a Capitol Hill newspaper and website. The annual list, compiled by Politico’s editors and reporters, comprises what the publication calls, “the next generation of movers and shakers in politics and policy.” Rep. Thornberry is recognized for his leadership and influence in national security. He currently serves as the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, as well as a senior member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. Current Armed Services Chairman Buck McKeon (R-CA) lauded Thornberry as his “partner” on the committee. He said, “We work together on just about everything, so I look to him as a real help.” He also cited the Clarendon native’s leadership within the committee and across the Republican Conference, saying he’s “the one to help him turn up the volume — within the committee or even the Republican Conference — to help pass critical legislation like the annual defense policy bill.” Admiral James Stavridis (USN RET), who stepped down earlier this year as NATO’s supreme allied commander and also served as the Commander of U.S. European Command, described Thornberry as “a leading actor on defense in the United States who is thoughtful, balanced and intellectually grounded in his opinions and actions.” The article also praised Thornberry’s style, noting “He’s not a headline chaser like a lot of members…He’s not one who thinks of a question or an issue because he’s read about it. He tends to be ahead of the curve on the things he has oversight on.” Politico says its “50 politicos to watch” feature looks “at the new generation of lawmakers, candidates, bloggers, fundraisers, consultants, and media standouts who will be a "force to reckon with in the coming years.” Read more by clicking here. Photo Credit: John Shinkle/POLITICO
07.19.2013	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted for a bill that would make major reforms to the 2001 No Child Left Behind Act on Friday. The House bill, The Student Success Act (H.R. 5), seeks to significantly restrict federal reach into K-12 education by repealing federal testing benchmarks, consolidating or ending duplicative programs, and halting the push for common education standards. It passed the House with a vote of 221 to 207. “We need serious reforms that restrict the federal government from reaching into our lives in a whole host of areas, and education is one of the most important,” said Rep. Thornberry. “The best people to make decisions about our children’s education are their parents and local school districts, not bureaucrats in Washington. This bill accomplishes that on many levels,” said Rep. Thornberry. Earlier this week, Thornberry organized a conference call with a number of superintendents and principals from all across the 13th District to outline some of the reforms and get feedback on the bill. He said he appreciated the chance to listen to those who actually work with local children because their input on potential reforms and how they may affect our area is critical. The Student Success Act, H.R. 5, removes a number of federal mandates and gives local schools more flexibility on using the federal funds they receive. Some key provisions include: Returning responsibility for student achievement to local leaders; Repealing the "Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP)" requirements; Eliminating more than 70 federal programs and replacing them with the Local Academic Flexible Grants; Supports local efforts to measure teacher effectiveness instead of a one-size-fits-all approach; Creates funding flexibility for local and state school systems by removing onerous federal funding requirements and supporting states’ and localities ability to prioritize funding to meet their individual needs. The bill has the support of the National School Boards Association, as well as the American Association of School Administrators, which represents school superintendents, said the organization, “applauds its strong improvements over current law and consistent effort to return autonomy and responsibility to the state and local level.” ###
07.17.2013	In an ongoing effort to halt Obamacare, Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted in favor of two bills to delay implementation of key pieces of the 2010 health reform law. The House passed both bills with a bipartisan vote of 251 to 174. “There’s more than one way to stop this train wreck of a law, and slowing major parts of it brings us much closer do doing that,” said Rep. Thornberry. “Exempting the entire country from Obamacare is the ultimate goal, so postponing, delaying, and disrupting implementation of large portions of the law makes complete sense.” The first measure would postpone requirements for large employers to offer health insurance for their employees or pay fines. The second would delay the law’s requirements for individuals to obtain health coverage or pay a penalty. The 2010 health care law mandates that employers with 50 or more full-time-equivalent employees provide health care coverage to their full-time employees (those working on average 30 or more hours per week) or pay steep penalties. In addition, individuals without coverage will pay $95 or 1 percent of their annual income. The fine will increase to $695 or 2.5 percent of annual income — whichever is highest — over time. With the original implementation date for Obamacare looming, Americans across the country are become more vocal in their opposition to the law. Original supporters of the 2010 measure, including several Democrats who authored the legislation, are publicly acknowledging its negative effects. This includes a number of labor unions, which waged an aggressive grassroots campaign in support of the Bill’s passage. On July 12, the heads of three major unions – the TEAMSTERS, the United Food and Commercial Workers, and UNITE-HERE—sent a strongly worded letter to Senator Harry Reid (D-NV) and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) demanding the law be fixed and warning, “the unintended consequences of the ACA are severe.” National surveys confirm Americans remain deeply concerned about the law and its impact. The June Kaiser Health Tracking Poll indicates that Obamacare is now less popular than it has been at any time since October 2011. These results were similar to a survey just released byHealthPocket, a consumer resource on health insurance, which found only 12 percent of respondents support implementing Obamacare’s individual mandate.
07.11.2013	Saying that it will save taxpayers $14 billion while providing hard-working producers stability, predictability, and relief from excessive federal regulations, Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted to support the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act or FARRM Bill. The Bill, which passed the House 216 to 208, authorizes funding for most federal farm policies only. “Agriculture is critical to the economy in our part of Texas, and it is a major lifeline for our country. Our farmers and ranchers play a vital role in maintaining our nation’s food and fiber supply. They need to know what our nation’s agriculture policy is going be,” said Rep. Thornberry. "The hardworking folks in our area deserve better than political gamesmanship from Congress or special interest groups holding this bill hostage to raise their profile and more money.” Agriculture is a top employer and economic engine in the 13th Congressional District. The area is number one in Texas for cattle, hogs, wheat, and corn production. It is also a leader in cotton, dairy, and forage. All totaled, the area produces over $5.8 billion in agricultural products each year. For the past 40 years, the Farm Bill was written to include nutrition programs such as Food Stamps (SNAP program) to achieve bipartisan support across agriculture-producing states and those that are not. The bill that passed the House today includes farm policy only. In addition to providing funding for farm programs like Crop Insurance, the new FARRM bill repeals or consolidates more than 100 United States Department of Agriculture programs, including direct payments. The legislation also eliminates and streamlines duplicative and overlapping conservation programs. Finally, H.R. 2642 repeals the underlying 1949 permanent law and replaces it with current law. Local farmers and ranchers support the bill, as does the National Pork Producers Council (NPCC), the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association (NCBA), and Texas Farm Bureau (TFB), among others. On Thursday, TFB told lawmakers, “We appreciate the long-standing connection between nutrition and farm policy, but understand the House leadership has determined the only way forward at this time is to handle the titles separately. With this understanding, Texas Farm Bureau strongly encourages the House to move expeditiously in advancing this legislation to conference with the Senate and into law.” Overall highlights include: H.R. 2642 accomplishes the following: Eliminates direct payments Cuts traditional farm policy by almost $23 billion. Cuts include repealing direct payments, counter cyclical payments, the average crop revenue election program (ACRE), and the supplemental revenue assistance payments (SURE) Limits producers to a risk management option that offers protection only when they suffer significant losses Improves the crop insurance program, a successful public/private partnership that ensures farmers have stake in partnership Repeals the outdated and unworkable 1949 permanent law and replaces it with the cost- effective and market-oriented 2013 farm bill Eliminates duplicative permitting requirements for pesticides. Prohibits EPA from implementing the unjustified and unscientific biological opinions of the National Marine Fisheries Service until there is an unbiased, scientific peer review of those opinions Requires regulatory agencies across the government to use scientifically sound information in moving forward with their regulatory initiatives Requires the Secretary of Agriculture to advocate on behalf of farmers and ranchers as other agencies move forward with regulations affecting food and fiber Eliminates duplicative reporting requirements for seed importers Addresses concerns of farmers and ranchers with regard to access to essential crop protection tools Reauthorizes and strengthens livestock disaster assistance Fully funds specialty crop industry priorities, such as specialty crop block grants
06.27.2013	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) has received notification from Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) Director Dan Ashe that a six-month extension will be granted for the final listing determination of the Lesser Prairie-Chicken as a “threatened species” under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). Earlier this week, Thornberry was joined by eight other Congressmen from Texas, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Colorado, Kansas, and Washington, including Rep. Randy Neugebauer and Rep. Mike Conaway, in a letter to Director Ashe requesting the six-month extension to March 30, 2014. “This is a good result for all the local communities and landowners that are working hard to implement local solutions to protect the Prairie-Chicken. The efforts of the folks living and working on the affected lands have shown that we don’t need Washington bureaucrats stepping in and making a decision based on bad science and backroom deals with environmental groups,” Thornberry said. “I hope that with this extra time, the Fish and Wildlife Service will take a serious look at those efforts and make the right decision.” The original letter to Director Ashe requesting the extension cited “significant scientific disagreement” about the status of the species that must be analyzed and addressed. Both the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the American Wind Energy Association have pointed to such discrepancies in comments to the FWS on the Lesser Prairie-Chicken listing. The FWS announced its plan to initiate the process to consider whether the Lesser Prairie-Chicken should be listed as “threatened” under the ESA on December 11, 2012, and the original final listing deadline was set for September 30, 2013. Since then, Thornberry's office has been working with local residents and businesses to encourage FWS officials to consider voluntary efforts to protect the Prairie-Chicken, which have proven effective with other species. Land owners, energy companies, and other businesses could face far reaching consequences if the bird is listed as a “threatened species.” The Lesser Prairie-Chicken can be found in Texas, as well as grasslands in Colorado, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Kansas. Despite having faced record droughts over the last several years, the Prairie-Chicken population is on the rise or holding steady in some parts of the country. This fact has led many residents, lawmakers, and others to question the need for new federal regulation to “protect” the birds.
06.17.2013	A surge in migrant traffic across the Southwest border into Texas has resulted in a milestone: the front line of the battle against illegal crossings from Mexico has shifted for the first time in over a decade away from Arizona to the Rio Grande Valley of South Texas. This shift has intensified a bitter debate under way in the Senate over whether the border is secure enough now, or ever will be, to move ahead with legislation that could give legal status to millions of illegal immigrants already here. On Monday, the Senate was scheduled to resume a long series of votes on an immigration bill that is promising to end a cycle — playing out since the early 1990s — in which each time the Border Patrol cracks down in one enforcement zone along the border, migrants move to another. Now the Rio Grande Valley has displaced the Tucson enforcement zone as the hot spot, with makeshift rafts crossing the river in increasing numbers, high-speed car chases occurring along rural roads and a growing number of dead bodies turning up on ranchers’ land, according to local officials. “There is just so much happening at the same time — it is overwhelming,” said Benny Martinez, the chief deputy in the Sheriff’s Department of Brooks County, Tex., 70 miles north of the border, where smugglers have been dropping off carloads of immigrants who have made it past Border Patrol checkpoints. The increase in Texas is taking place even as the Obama administration says it has achieved unprecedented control over the border with Mexico. The administration, President Obama said last week, has “put border security in place,” with illegal crossings “near their lowest level in decades.” Apprehensions at the Mexican border — the single best indicator of illegal traffic — are still far below their peak: there were 356,873 last year, compared with 1.6 million in 2000. But after nearly a decade of steady declines, the count has started to rise again over the past year, driven by the rise in the southern tip of Texas, where the numbers so far this fiscal year are up 55 percent. Since October, 94,305 individuals have been apprehended in the Rio Grande Valley alone, topping the count in Tucson for the first time since 1993. Critics of the Senate legislation, including Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, point to the influx in the Rio Grande Valley enforcement zone as proof that the bill must explicitly mandate “full operational control” of the border within a decade before any immigrants who were once here illegally could be allowed to proceed toward citizenship. “If we don’t guarantee to the American people that we actually are going to get serious about stopping the flow of people illegally crossing our Southwestern border,” Mr. Cornyn said last week on the Senate floor, “I think we guarantee the failure of bipartisan immigration reform.” Supporters of the bill say the surge in Texas is small compared with the steep overall decline in recent years, and the Senate legislation, while not formally mandating control all along the Mexican border, would provide at least $4.5 billion over five years for enforcement tools to help finish the job — a significant improvement that would come after two years of budget cutting. “I have been on the border in Arizona for the last 30 years,” Senator John McCain, a Republican from that state who is one of the eight authors of the overhaul bill, said during the debate last week. “To somehow say there have not been significant advancements in border security defies the facts.” The homeland security secretary, Janet Napolitano, acknowledged to a Senate committee this spring that in South Texas, “we have a problem there right now which we are fixing.” The chief of the Border Patrol, Michael J. Fisher, said in an interview that he had begun last year to shift agents and surveillance equipment to the region, anticipating that an enforcement campaign in Tucson would push the illegal flow toward Texas. He said the patrol had sought to build up in Texas without diminishing its effort in Arizona. “We did it smartly,” Mr. Fisher said. “We wanted to maintain some discipline and not move our resources from our primary focus in Arizona.” Even though more planes and helicopters have been sent to the Rio Grande area, the effort has been slowed considerably by recent federal budget cuts, which have created severe fuel shortages and other complications that have at times grounded border aircraft. Agents have also had to double up in patrol vehicles, or have been ordered to sit in their vehicles without driving. Several parts of the border, like one 25-mile stretch west of McAllen, are at times not being watched, so the number of migrants who cross from Mexico without getting caught is surging, too, three agents said in interviews last week. “It’s really demoralizing because there’s so much traffic passing through here and we can’t do anything about it,” one agent said Friday while on patrol, asking that his name not be used because he was not authorized to speak publicly. “And when you try to do something and they won’t let you do it,” he added, having been ordered during recent shifts not to drive his truck, “it’s just really demoralizing.” Corruption has also been a problem: two Homeland Security auditors, until recently based in McAllen, were indicted in April on charges that they falsified documents when they were supposed to be investigating a string of cases in which Border Patrol agents had been helping smuggle illegal immigrants and drugs into the United States. Mike Salinas, an alderman in La Joya, Tex., a tiny city on the Rio Grande, said border agents there were frequently outnumbered. Last week, a single agent tried to round up a group of 20, most of whom he watched scatter and get away. “People are just crossing without fear,” Mr. Salinas said, recalling crowds right in his backyard in recent weeks. The holding cells at the McAllen Border Patrol station are often filled beyond capacity, and dozens of migrants are temporarily held in a truck garage. As many as 50 adults are detained for up to a week in a single holding area, with no shower, agents said. A Homeland Security spokesman in Washington acknowledged that fuel shortages and overcrowding had been a problem, and he said the agency was working to distribute migrants it apprehended among different area stations. The surge in South Texas is driven mostly by immigrants originating not from Mexico but from Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador, officials said. The Mexican border city of Reynosa is the end of a railway that begins in southern Mexico, and many migrants ride the roofs of freight trains to reach the United States. Scholars who study migration say surveys show that it is most unlikely the migrants have been spurred by news that Congress is considering legalization for illegal immigrants already here. Tom K. Wong, a political science professor at the University of California, San Diego, said other factors appeared to be driving them. “You see this uptick at the same time when the U.S. economy as a whole is also improving,” Mr. Wong said. Researchers said criminal violence in Central America was also a factor in the surge, which began more than a year ago, before the debate in Washington started. The hundreds of miles of border defined by the Rio Grande are difficult to patrol, with citrus groves, dense fields of rippling sugar cane and thickets of mesquite trees that make it impenetrable to the long-range surveillance cameras affixed to tall towers, which have been effective in parts of Arizona. The river’s winding course and soggy terrain — as well as the potential for flooding — make building fences impractical in certain places. Late last year, the Rio Grande Valley had 2,546 Border Patrol agents, up from 1,484 a decade earlier. Most new graduates of the Border Patrol Academy are being sent to the Rio Grande Valley, said Mr. Fisher, the Border Patrol chief. Agents have received surplus equipment from the Department of Defense, like night vision goggles, while they wait for money to buy their own gear. Representative Henry Cuellar, a Democrat who represents part of the region, said the Homeland Security Department should have acted sooner. “They haven’t been nimble enough,” he said. “They would have been in a much better situation if they were playing offense instead of defense.” The Senate bill would authorize spending on sophisticated mobile surveillance trucks, additional fencing and more border agents, advocates of the measure noted. They said other enforcement tools in the bill, like a mandate that all employers verify the work authorization of new hires, were needed to help eliminate magnets for migrants. Mr. Fisher said he expected more fluctuations in illegal border crossings as enforcement expanded. “Across the Southwest border you always are going to have one location — right now it is Rio Grande Valley — where the traffic is rising,” he said. Mr. Martinez, the chief deputy sheriff in Brooks County, said that cycle was worrisome to local residents. “This is a humanitarian issue,” he said. “People are dying right out on the land here.” Laura Tillman contributed reporting from McAllen, Tex. This article originally appeared in the New York Times on June 17, 2013.
06.14.2013	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following comments after the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014. The vote was 315 to 108: “Budgets are shrinking, but the threats to our country are not. This strong, bipartisan bill reflects both of these realities, while also providing significant support for our fighting forces, offering additional resources for other national security efforts, and helping us prepare to deal with threats that are still emerging and evolving. The Bill also strengthens congressional oversight and restricts some questionable policy proposals by the Administration.” LOCAL HIGHLIGHTS: Bell Helicopter projects funded at $2.091 billion for the V-22 Osprey program, $850.5 million for Huey and Cobra (UH-1Y/AH-1Z) helicopters, and $421.1 million for the Kiowa Warrior; Pantex will see a 2.3 percent increase in its budget with this Bill, thanks to the House Armed Services Committee which increased the funding provided for certain nuclear weapons activities—much of which is performed at Pantex—by $220 million. BILL HIGHLIGHTS: Authorizes $552.1 billion in budget authority for the Department of Defense (DoD) and national security programs of the Department of Energy (DOE). 1.8 percent across-the-board pay raise for all members of the Armed Forces in 2014, higher than the 1 percent pay raise found in the President’s budget proposal. Thornberry provision allowing 170,000 military retirees and their families who live 40 miles outside of an active or former military base to keep Tricare Prime. The Pentagon proposed ending the service for such beneficiaries beginning in 10/1/ 2013. Thornberry’s oversight of sensitive military operations measure, which would require prompt notification of any overseas lethal or capture operation outside of Afghanistan – including those conducted with “drones.” Makes numerous changes to procedures for prosecuting alleged sexual assaults. Several provisions to restrict the transfer of detainees held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Prohibit the use of funds to propose, plan for or execute an additional base closure and realignment round (BRAC).
06.06.2013	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry, the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, announced today that the Committee approved the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014, H.R. 1960, by a vote of 59 to 2. The legislation authorizes $552.1 billion in budget authority for the Department of Defense (DoD) and national security programs of the Department of Energy (DOE). “We task our military forces, from the Joint Chiefs down to the newest recruits, with the first job of the federal government outlined in the U.S. Constitution - our national defense. That is why, even during times of tight budgets and spending cuts, it is our responsibility to give them the support they need,” Thornberry said. “This Bill provides the funding, resources, training, and capabilities that they need to succeed in their mission today and prepare for emerging national security threats in the future,” he continued. Locally, the annual defense policy bill authorizes funding for programs at Bell Helicopter and Pantex. Bell Helicopter projects funded include a total of $2.091 billion for the V-22 Osprey program, $850.5 million for Huey and Cobra (UH-1Y/AH-1Z) helicopters, and $421.1 million for the Kiowa Warrior helicopter. These amounts include the purchase of new aircraft, upgrades and modifications to existing ones, and research and development. Bell Helicopter's Amarillo plant is the primary location for work conducted on the Osprey and Huey/Cobra programs. The facility also performs work on the Kiowa Warrior helicopters. Pantex will see a 2.3 percent increase in its budget with this bill. In addition to fully funding that President’s $604 million budget request, the House Armed Services Committee increased the funding provided for certain nuclear weapons activities—much of which is performed at Pantex—by $220 million. “Pantex, Bell Helicopter, and their local employees play an important role in the support of the U.S. military and its defense capabilities, and the funding in this bill for each reflects that. The hard work and dedication of the workforces at both facilities helps ensure our military’s readiness year after year,” said Thornberry. Included in the legislation is a 1.8 percent across-the-board pay raise for all members of the Armed Forces in 2014, higher than the 1 percent pay raise found in the President’s budget proposal. The overall bill also includes two measures introduced by Thornberry. The first, which was introduced along with Rep. John Kline (R-Minn.), allows 170,000 military retirees and their families who live outside 40 miles of an active or former military base to keep Tricare Prime. The Pentagon proposed ending the service for such beneficiaries beginning in October 1, 2013. “We’ve made promises to those who have served our country, and I do not believe that you change the rules in the middle of the game,” said Thornberry. “So, I am encouraged to see that this defense bill includes the provision that prevents retirees from being forced off Tricare Prime and provides them and their families a one-time choice to stay on Prime or choose Tricare Standard, regardless of where they live. This issue is particularly important for retirees in rural areas like ours and in a state like Texas that has a very high number of military retirees,” he said. Thornberry’s oversight of sensitive military operations legislation is also part of the defense policy bill. The measure would require prompt notification to the congressional defense committees of any overseas lethal or capture operation outside of Afghanistan – including those conducted with Unmanned Aerial Vehicles, commonly referred to as “drones.” That measure is based on a bill, H.R. 1904, “Oversight of Sensitive Military Operations Act” that was introduced by Thornberry in May and enjoys strong bipartisan support in the House. “As we work to keep Americans safe from evolving threats, we must ensure that every action is consistent with our civil liberties and freedoms. This type of oversight is one of the primary roles of Congress, and the American people need to know that their elected officials will hold President Obama and his Administration, or any administration, accountable for their actions,” Thornberry said. Included in the defense authorization bill are important reforms to combat sexual assault in the military. These reforms would strip commanders of their authority to dismiss a finding by a court martial - a power they have held since the earliest days of our military. It would also prohibit commanders from reducing guilty findings to guilty of a lesser offence. Recognizing that victim support is as vital as prosecution, the mark proposal would allow victims of sexual assault to apply for a permanent change of station or unit transfer, while authorizing the Secretary of Defense to inform commanders of their authority to remove or temporarily reassign service members who are the alleged perpetrators of sexual assault. Thornberry said the full House is scheduled to consider the Bill next week.
05.24.2013	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) introduced a bill on Thursday, H.R. 2202, which would make the excise tax on Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) and diesel comparable on an energy-equivalent basis. Thornberry was joined by Rep. John Larson of Connecticut in introducing the “LNG Excise Tax Equalization Act of 2013” in the U.S. House of Representatives. Currently, the federal excise tax on LNG and diesel is set at 24.3 cents per gallon. Because it takes 1.7 gallons of LNG to produce the same amount of energy as a gallon of diesel fuel, LNG is taxed 70 percent higher than diesel. Thornberry’s bill would level the playing field by applying the excise tax to LNG and diesel based on the amount of energy each produces, which is how it is applied to Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) and gasoline. “This bill provides a fair, market centered solution to fix the tax disparity between diesel and LNG,” said Thornberry. “I think this change will encourage more private sector investment in LNG infrastructure and production, and that will be a real positive effect on our economy.” This month, the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Council (SBE Council) released a report showing that growing global demand for LNG will continue to benefit the American economy and job creation. Additionally, the 2013 Energy Outlook from the Energy Information Administration estimates the U.S. could become a net exporter of LNG by 2016 and a net exporter of natural gas by 2019. “Natural gas is an affordable and American energy source that is an essential part of ending our dependency on foreign oil,” said Congressman Larson. “Companies are already beginning to make the switch towards natural gas vehicles and this bill will knock down a significant barrier preventing companies from further harnessing this domestic energy source. By leveling the playing field for LNG trucks, we are taking an easy step towards utilizing clean, affordable and American energy.” To better understand the problem with the current excise tax, consider a diesel truck traveling 100,000 miles per year at 5 miles per gallon consumes 20,000 gallons of diesel fuel. An identical LNG truck would require 34,000 gallons of LNG to travel the same distance. While the LNG truck uses a cleaner, domestic form of fuel, it would pay an additional $3,402 per year in taxes for using LNG. A Senate companion bill is expected to soon be introduced by Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Richard Burr (R-NC). The bills have received public support from Natural Gas Vehicles for America, American Gas Association, America’s Natural Gas Alliance, AGL Resources, Clean Energy Fuels, UPS, and others.
05.23.2013	This week, U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) introduced the latest version of his bill to promote domestic energy production. H.R. 2081, the “No More Excuses Energy Act of 2013,” would encourage the production of all forms of domestic energy including oil and gas, nuclear, and alternative energy and fuels. “Congress needs to reduce the amount of regulation coming out of Washington and encourage all forms of energy production here at home,” said Thornberry. “We need national energy policies that create jobs and grow the economy; basically, we should be trying to replicate what Texas has been doing the past 15 years. This bill is meant to do just that – help to lower energy prices and create jobs by getting government out of the way of producers.” Currently, more than 400,000 people in Texas work in the oil and gas industry, and the Texas unemployment rate is a full point lower than the national average at 6.4 percent. Thornberry pointed to those statistics while saying, “If the President is serious about creating jobs, he should be encouraging Congress to pass bills like this one that will unleash the full economic force of the energy sector.” Thornberry’s bill has gained wide support among energy producers in Texas, including the Texas Alliance of Energy Producers and the Panhandle Producers & Royalty Owners Association. "Congressman Thornberry has introduced an ‘all-of-the-above’ energy solution with the introduction of his No More Excuses Energy Act of 2013. The nation is going to need to maximize production of crude oil, natural gas, nuclear, wind and solar to meet consumer demands in the future,” said Alex Mills the president of Texas Alliance of Energy Producers. The energy boom in America continues to be one of the few bright spots in the national economy. Just last month, the Interior Department’s United States Geological Survey released a new report that found the oil-and-gas reserves in North Dakota, South Dakota, and Montana hold twice as much shale oil and three times as much gas than previously estimated. “Consumers are justifiably tired of the yo-yo of prices for gasoline at the pump. Often, those wild fluctuations are a direct result of a refinery issue that calls for a curtailment in production,” said Panhandle Producers & Royalty Owners Association Executive Vice President Wayne Hughes. “The loss, however temporary, of a fraction of refinery output sends shock waves through the fuel distribution system. If our economy is to continue to grow, we must have reliable fuel sources and consistent pricing. Adding additional refinery capacity would be an effective way to assure a consistent energy supply the consumer could rely on for the long haul.” The “No More Excuses Energy Act of 2013” includes provisions that: Encourages new refinery construction by allowing tax exempt bonds to be used for construction of certain refineries and making federal lands available for refinery construction. Opens the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska to responsible drilling, potentially producing nearly a million barrels per day. Removes the moratorium on drilling for offshore oil and gas in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico and ensures that all offshore areas are open to responsible oil and gas production. Encourages production of onshore natural gas produced from wells more than 15,000 feet deep. Encourages investment in a much-needed industrial base for building new nuclear power plants by reducing the tax burden on that industry. Responsibly boosts alternative energy development by extending and phasing out the Wind Production Tax Credit (PTC). Prevents the Environmental Protection Agency from regulating greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act. Repeals the minimum capture requirement for the CO2 sequestration credit in order to help smaller facilities qualify for the credit. This credit applies to permanent storage and CO2 used as a tertiary injectant for enhanced oil or natural gas recovery. Makes the excise tax on Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) and diesel comparable on an energy-equivalent basis and extends the Alternative Fuel Credit through 2014. This credit applies to liquefied petroleum gas, P Series Fuels, compressed or liquefied natural gas, any liquid derived from coal through the Fisher-Tropsch process, and compressed or liquefied gas derived from biomass. It does not include ethanol, methanol, or biodiesel.
05.16.2013	For the third time since 2011, the U.S. House of Representatives has voted to fully repeal President Obama’s health care law. Area Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), a co-sponsor of the repeal bill, voted in favor of the measure, which passed 229 to 195. The House has voted more than 30 times to repeal, dismantle, and defund different parts of the new health care law. “There is no law that will have more influence over our lives than Obamacare, and that is why I voted again today to abolish this disastrous bill, and will do so every time I get the chance,” said Rep. Thornberry. Concern is growing across the country as the January 2014 date for implementation of the health care law draws near. National polls consistently show that the majority of Americans do not support Obamacare. Even in Congress, key Democrat Senators who helped draft the law have called the implementation a "train wreck" (Senator Max Baucus from MT), while Senator Jay Rockefeller (WV) said, “I believe that the Affordable Care Act is probably the most complex piece of legislation ever passed by the United States Congress.” In particular, small-business people across the country continue to sound the alarm about the negative impact of Obamacare on their employees and their businesses. In a Gallup survey of more than 600 small businesses released on May 10th, 48% percent of U.S. small-business owners say the 2010 Affordable Care Act (ACA) is going to be bad for their business, compared with 9% who say it is going to be good. In addition, 52% of owners say that Obamacare is going to reduce the quality of health care they and their employees receive, while 55% of small-business owners expect the money they pay for health care to increase. “I have heard from many folks in our area about how portions of the new law are already adversely affecting their health care and causing insurance premiums to go up. I am concerned that some small businesses will no longer be able to offer health insurance to their workers and that many will lose the insurance they have now,” said Rep. Thornberry. “Additionally, I have serious concerns with the new powers the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) will gain as the main enforcement arm of Obamacare in light of recent admissions that the agency has grossly abused its power by targeting certain groups for their political beliefs.” The Republican-led House of Representatives has been pushing to repeal, dismantle, and defund Obamacare implementation since the law passed without a single Republican vote in 2010. They have successfully repealed and defunded several parts of the law, forcing President Obama to sign bills that chip away at his signature legislative accomplishment.
05.09.2013	Congressman Mac Thornberry, the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, introduced a bill today that would, for the first time, require prompt notification to the Congressional defense committees of any overseas lethal or capture operation outside of Afghanistan– including those conducted with Unmanned Aerial Vehicles, commonly referred to as “drones.” “As we work to keep Americans safe from evolving threats, we must ensure that every action is consistent with our civil liberties and freedoms. This balance can only be achieved by proper oversight and accountability, and it is Congress’s job to provide both,” said Rep. Thornberry. “This bill can help us meet that responsibility.” The “Oversight of Sensitive Military Operations Act” would require the Congressional defense committees be notified of targeted lethal operations by the U.S. military overseas. It would also require a report outlining all legal and policy considerations relating to the use of force by the U.S. military against terrorists overseas, and the process used to approve potential targets. Finally, it would codify in-depth quarterly updates to the defense committees on counterterrorism operations by the U.S. military. As more and more has been written about and reported on the use and oversight of armed drones in counterterrorism operations, demands for information within Congress and among the public have grown. There has been bipartisan support in the House and Senate for more Congressional oversight of such operations to ensure they are carried out in ways that are consistent with the United States Constitution and American values. “Congress is directly accountable to the American people. We cannot outsource our responsibility to the courts or anyone else,” said Thornberry. “The American people need to know that their elected officials will hold President Obama and his Administration, or any administration, accountable for their actions. This bill is an important step in formalizing that accountability process.” Thornberry introduced his bipartisan bill along with 28 other co-sponsors, including Reps. McKeon (R-CA), Forbes (R-VA), Miller (R-FL), Wilson (R-SC), LoBiondo (R-NJ), Bishop (R-UT), Turner (R-OH), Kline (R-MN), Rogers (R-AL), Franks (R-AZ), Shuster (R-PA), Conaway (R-TX), Lamborn (R-CO), Wittman (R-VA), Hunter (R-CA), Coffman (R-CO), Rigell (R-VA), Gibson (R-NY), Hartzler (R-MO), Heck (R-NV), Scott (R-GA), Nugent (R-FL), Noem (R-SD), Bridenstine (R-OK), Wenstrup (R-OH) , Smith (D-WA), Langevin (D-RI), Hanabusa (D-HI).
05.08.2013	The U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill today to give private-sector employees who work more than 40 hours a week the option of taking compensatory (comp) time or paid time off instead of overtime pay. Currently, the option of taking comp time in lieu of cash wages is only available to federal, state, and local government workers. Area Congressman Mac Thornberry is a cosponsor of The Working Families Flexibility Act of 2013. He said, “Washington should not be telling people how to run their business, and that includes whether or not an employer can even offer employees comp time. This bill gives employees the option to choose overtime wages or comp time, whichever works better for them and their family.” Currently, the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (FLSA) requires covered employees to receive overtime cash wages of “time-and-a-half” for hours worked over 40 within a work week. The law also prohibits covered workers from choosing paid time off instead. The Working Families Flexibility Act of 2013 removes this legal barrier that prevents private-sector workers from having the same flexibility as public-sector workers. The legislation also maintains the same protections that allow employees to continue receiving overtime pay if they choose to do so. Surveys indicate that employees are finding it increasingly difficult to balance their professional and personal lives. For example, more than half of working parents find it difficult to balance work and family, and 33 percent of parents say they are not spending enough time with their children. When it comes to military personnel, 55 percent are married and 40 percent have two or more children. While service members are deployed, military spouses must singlehandedly manage work and household responsibilities. Currently, more than 50 million working Americans spend roughly 8 hours a week providing care for aging relatives, a challenge when balancing the demands of a job. “For some people, comp time is more valuable to them the cash. They should have the choice, and this bill gives them that freedom,” said Thornberry. The bill has the support of a number of private sector organizations, including the National Federation of Independent Businesses, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the American Hospital Association, National Restaurant Association, and the Society for Human Resource Management, among others. For a full list of supporters, please click here. ###
05.02.2013	A local Amarillo High School student has been selected to represent the 13th Congressional District of Texas in the nationwide 2013 Congressional Art Contest. A photograph submitted by Alexandria Karber, daughter of Wes and Michelle Karber of Amarillo, will be displayed in the hallways of the United States Capitol for an entire year. Alexandria’s photograph, entitled “Sandy Chaos,” was selected as the winning entry from the 13th District of Texas. "The wind was blowing so hard that day and nobody could see a thing, the only thing that seemed calm about that moment was a single tree, peaceful and still,” Alexandria said of her winning photograph. Winners of the competition are invited to Washington, D.C., for a special reception to honor the winners. Alexandria and her mom, Michelle, plan to attend the event this year and visit with Rep. Thornberry while they are in town. “We had many impressive pieces of art submitted by students from across our part of Texas for this year’s Congressional Art Competition,” 13th District Representative Mac Thornberry said. “Alexandria’s photograph makes you feel like you are at the scene watching that dramatic sand storm cross the rugged Texas landscape. I am proud to have it represent our district in the Capitol Building for the next year.” The Congressional Art Contest is a national competition that selects one piece of artwork from all 435 U.S. congressional districts and territories for a year-long exhibit in Washington, D.C. The annual contest for high school students has taken place since 1982. Alexandria’s graphic design teacher, Micah Muehlhausen, said, “Alex has an outstanding eye for photography and art. She knows how to capture the moment and evoke feeling in a single photo.” He continued, “Beyond her artwork, she is an extraordinary young lady. Being her teacher is both an honor and a blessing.” Alexandria is a junior at Amarillo High School. Sandy Chaos by Alexandria Karber Alexandria Karber of Amarillo
04.23.2013	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) has asked the House Appropriations Committee to delay funding of any further efforts by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Services (FWS) to list the Lesser Prairie-Chicken as a threatened or endangered species under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). “All we are asking for is that local landowners and communities be given sufficient time to develop voluntary conservation programs to protect the Lesser Prairie-Chicken without burdening our producers, ranchers, and landowners," Thornberry said. "I believe the folks living and working on the affected lands are better suited to finding solutions to this issue than a handful of bureaucrats sitting behind desks in Washington," he continued. In a letter to the Committee, Thornberry calls for a one-year "time out" on the FWS's plan, stating that a year would "allow local landowners and public officials the opportunity to enter into conservation agreements to protect the species and ensure economic growth." Thornberry is joined by six other Congressmen from Texas, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Kansas, and Colorado, including Rep. Randy Neugebauer and Rep. Mike Conaway. The FWS announced its plan to initiate the process to consider whether the Lesser Prairie-Chicken should be listed as “threatened” under the ESA on December 11, 2012. Since then, Thornberry's office has been working with local residents and businesses to encourage FWS officials to consider voluntary efforts to protect the Prairie-Chicken, which have proven effective with other species. The Lesser Prairie-Chicken can be found in Texas, as well as grasslands in Colorado, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Kansas. Despite having faced record droughts over the last several years, the prairie chicken population is on the rise or holding steady in some parts of the country. This fact has led many residents, lawmakers, and others to question the need for new federal regulation to “protect” the birds. ###
04.10.2013	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following statement about the budget proposal submitted by President Obama: "The budget that the President submitted today does not seem serious. It is full of accounting gimmicks that expand the federal government’s role in the lives of hardworking Americans; it increases taxes; and it rapidly grows the size of our debt and deficit. Instead of reforming the mandatory spending programs that make up nearly two-thirds of the federal budget, the Commander in Chief has proposed another $120 billion in arbitrary cuts to our national defense during troubling times. This year, I have voted for two Republican budget proposals in the House that, unlike the President’s plan, would each balance the budget and support our national security."
04.08.2013	On April 13, the Office of U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) will hold the 13th District’s Service Academy Forum in Amarillo. The annual event provides information to interested students and their parents about attending the United States Service Academies. The Amarillo forum will take place on Saturday, April 13, from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. at the Amarillo Public Library’s Southwest Branch. These forums are designed for potential nominees in their junior or senior year of high school. However, all local students, parents, and counselors are invited to attend the event. Representatives from West Point, the Naval Academy, and the Air Force Academy will give presentations and answer questions. Members of Rep. Thornberry's staff will also be available to explain the application process. “It is a great privilege each year for me to nominate some of our area's best and brightest high school students to attend our Service Academies. These young men and women represent the next generation of leaders in our military and our country,” said Thornberry. As a Member of Congress, Rep. Thornberry is allowed to nominate a limited number of students for each service academy. Applications for nominations must be submitted to the Congressman’s office by December 1 of a student’s senior year. After reviewing Congressional nominations, final selections and offers of acceptance are made by the Service Academies. Nominees who are accepted by the academies receive a free education. In return, they agree to serve in the military for a minimum of five years after graduation. You can learn more about this event on Rep. Thornberry's website or Facebook page. Amarillo Service Academy Forum Saturday, April 13, 2013 9:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. Amarillo Public Library – Southwest Branch 6801 Southwest 45th Avenue Amarillo, TX ###
03.21.2013	The Obama Administration’s plan to close six interior Border Patrol stations in Texas has hit another roadblock. The government funding bill passed by both the House and the Senate specifically prohibits the closures at least through September 30, 2013. “We have continued to work on this issue, and we are very pleased that our concerns about the immigration enforcement gaps these closures could create are being taken seriously,” said local Congressman Mac Thornberry. “We are working through serious spending and budget issues, and no federal agency should be immune. But, it makes no sense whatsoever to be pennywise and pound-foolish when it comes to controlling who and what comes across our borders,” he continued. Citing “cost-saving measures,” the U.S. Customs and Border Protection filed a plan to deactivate nine interior Border Patrol stations in four states in 2012. Since then, Rep. Thornberry has been working with other members of the Texas congressional delegation, as well as leaders on relevant committees, to slow the closures until the agency develops a viable plan to deal with immigration enforcement if the stations are closed. The most recent success to halt the closures came in the form of language included in the FY 2013 government funding bill that specifically states, “CBP is prohibited from closing Border Patrol stations in Texas, as proposed in the budget request. CBP and ICE have not produced a transition plan to ensure the immigration enforcement needs of local sheriffs will be supported without a Border Patrol presence.” “I am thrilled with this news because there really is no plan to fill in the enforcement gaps these closures would create. There are a lot of unknowns just to save a few dollars,” said Potter County Sheriff Brian Thomas, who has been vocal in his opposition to the station closures. “Closing these stations would leave us high and dry. I am ecstatic that this federal resource will still be available to us in the near term,” he said.
03.18.2013	On April 6, the Office of U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) will hold the 13th District’s Service Academy Forum in Wichita Falls. The annual event provides information to interested students and their parents about attending the United States Service Academies. The Wichita Falls forum will take place on Saturday, April 6, from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. at the Region 9 Education Center. These forums are designed for potential nominees in their junior or senior year of high school. However, all local students, parents, and counselors are invited to attend the event. Representatives from West Point, the Naval Academy, and the Air Force Academy will give presentations and answer questions. Members of Rep. Thornberry's staff will also be available to explain the application process. “It is a great privilege each year for me to nominate some of our area's best and brightest high school students to attend our Service Academies. These young men and women represent the next generation of leaders in our military and our country,” said Thornberry. As a Member of Congress, Rep. Thornberry is allowed to nominate a limited number of students for each service academy. Applications for nominations must be submitted to the Congressman’s office by December 1 of a student’s senior year. After reviewing Congressional nominations, final selections and offers of acceptance are made by the Service Academies. Nominees who are accepted by the academies receive a free education. In return, they agree to serve in the military for a minimum of five years after graduation. You can learn more about this event on Rep. Thornberry's website or Facebook page. Wichita Falls Service Academy Forum Saturday, April 6, 2013 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 a.m. Region 9 Education Center 301 Loop 11 Wichita Falls, TX ###
03.18.2013	On April 6, the Office of U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) will hold the 13th District’s Service Academy Forum in Gainesville. The annual event provides information to interested students and their parents about attending the United States Service Academies. The Gainesville forum will take place on Saturday, April 6, from 2:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. at North Central Texas College - Little Theater. These forums are designed for potential nominees in their junior or senior year of high school. However, all local students, parents, and counselors are invited to attend the event. Representatives from West Point, the Naval Academy, and the Air Force Academy will give presentations and answer questions. Members of Rep. Thornberry's staff will also be available to explain the application process. “It is a great privilege each year for me to nominate some of our area's best and brightest high school students to attend our Service Academies. These young men and women represent the next generation of leaders in our military and our country,” said Thornberry. As a Member of Congress, Rep. Thornberry is allowed to nominate a limited number of students for each service academy. Applications for nominations must be submitted to the Congressman’s office by December 1 of a student’s senior year. After reviewing Congressional nominations, final selections and offers of acceptance are made by the Service Academies. Nominees who are accepted by the academies receive a free education. In return, they agree to serve in the military for a minimum of five years after graduation. You can learn more about this event on Rep. Thornberry's website or Facebook page. Gainesville Service Academy Forum Saturday, April 6, 2013 2:30p.m. – 4:00 p.m. North Central Texas College – Little Theater 1525 W. California Street Gainesville, TX ###
03.12.2013	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following statement about the budget plan released today by House Republicans: "Today, House Republicans unveiled a plan to balance the budget in 10 years. It reduces federal spending by $4.6 trillion over the next decade, repeals Obamacare, protects our national security, begins to reform our broken tax code, and cuts wasteful government spending. The plan also makes some commonsense reforms to entitlement programs like Medicaid and Food Stamps. It shores up Medicare’s finances, with no changes at all for those who are 55-years or older. The budget does all of these things without imposing new taxes. If we are to pass along to our kids and grandkids a nation with at least as much opportunity as was passed to us, we must get our fiscal house in order. This budget plan helps offer the country the chance do just that." Read more about the House Republican's budget plan by clicking here.
03.07.2013	Are you, your child, or someone you know a budding artist who would like to see their work displayed in the United States Capitol? The office of U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) is now taking submissions from area high school students for the 2013 Congressional Art Competition. The competition features one winner from each congressional district and territory in the United States. Each winner’s artwork will be displayed for one year in the United States House of Representatives. The contest is open to any public, private, or home-schooled high school student living in the 13thCongressional District of Texas. Submissions will be selected by an independent jury of educators and art professionals from the 13th district. The winning student will be invited to attend the opening celebration of the Congressional Art Competition in Washington, D.C. Interested high school students should call Congressman Thornberry’s office (202-225-3706) or visit his webpage (/art) for more on competition guidelines and a description of how to submit your entry. The deadline for entries is Friday, April 19, 2013.
03.06.2013	In an effort to help provide the Pentagon budget flexibility as it faces across-the-board cuts under sequestration, the House today passed a spending bill to continue government operations until the end of the fiscal year on September 30, 2013 (H.R. 933) by a vote of 267-151. Area Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) supported its passage. The legislation includes a full-year Defense Appropriations bill, as well as a full-year Military Construction/Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill. These two individual bills passed the House last year on a broad bipartisan basis and have been negotiated by both the House and Senate. In addition, the measure denies over $1 billion in funding requested by the Administration for implementation of Obamacare. The bill does not include any new funding for the health care law, the vast majority of which falls under mandatory spending with other entitlements like Medicare, Medicaid, and food stamps. "The country is facing some serious budget choices, and no government agency should be immune. But, we can find ways to save significant money while protecting essential things like our national security. This bill does just that by giving the Pentagon some flexibility in implementing the steep, automatic sequestration cuts they are facing while keeping overall spending at the lower levels," said Rep. Thornberry, who serves as the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. Except for the Department of Defense (DoD) and the Department of Veterans Affairs, the spending will extend funding for other government agencies at last year’s levels. However, the funding within the bill is subject to sequestration cuts. This means that the funding rate within the legislation is approximately $982 billion – the level required by the President’s sequestration order. “While the President and others in his Administration continue their sky-is-falling campaign to scare Americans about the immediate impact of sequestration, in the House we are focused on using careful, targeted, and responsible cuts to get our fiscal house in order," said Thornberry.
02.22.2013	Wichita Falls, TX – U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry announced today that he will hold a number of regional town hall meetings on Friday, March 8, 2013. “People have serious concerns about the budget and debt, gun control, healthcare, and national security. They want their voices to be heard, and these conversations are one way I can listen to their concerns and they can share their ideas with me,” said Thornberry. All citizens of the 13th Congressional District are invited to attend. Friday, March 8, 2013 Jacksboro 8:30am – 9:30am Jack County District Court Room 100 N. Main Street Jacksboro, TX Archer City 10:30am – 11:30am Archer County Courthouse Annex 112 E. Walnut Archer City, TX Knox City 1:30 pm – 2:30 pm Knox County Clinic 702 S.E. 5th Knox City, TX Quanah 4:00 pm – 5:00 pm Quanah Community Center 1600 Airport Road Quanah, TX
02.22.2013	Amarillo, TX – U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry announced today that he will hold a number of regional town hall meetings on Saturday, March 9, 2013. “People have serious concerns about the budget and debt, gun control, healthcare, and national security. They want their voices to be heard, and these conversations are one way I can listen to their concerns and they can share their ideas with me,” said Thornberry. All citizens of the 13th Congressional District are invited to attend. Saturday, March 9, 2013 Memphis 9:00am – 10:00am Memphis Public Library 303 South 8th Street Memphis, TX Silverton 11:00am – 12:00pm Happy State Bank 500 Main Street Silverton, TX Lockney 1:30 pm – 2:30 pm Lockney Community Center 502 SE 8th Street Lockney, TX Matador 3:30 pm – 4:30 pm Motley County Library Annex 1105 Main Street Matador, TX
02.15.2013	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) was featured in an AOL Defense story, "Mac Thornberry: Congress Must Empower Special Operations,"about the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) hearing that took place this week on improving legal authorities for U.S. special operations forces to work with foreign forces around the world. In addition to his role as Vice Chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Congressman Thornberry chairs the HASC’s Subcommittee on Intelligence, Emerging Threats, and Capabilities, which has jurisdiction over America’s special operations forces. "To implement the administration's January 2012 strategy, with its emphasis on supporting foreign partners rather than committing large numbers of US troops, 'we need to overhaul our authorities to provide assistance to other security forces,' HASC vice-chairman Mac Thornberry told AOL Defense. And despite the bitter partisan divisions on most other issues, he said, 'there is interest -- equal interest -- on both sides to examine existing authorities and see how they can be improved.'" The Special Operations Command (SOCOM) has increased considerably in personnel and budget since the attacks on 9/11, but SOCOM does not actually run most special operations. Instead, Central Command (CENTCOM) and other theater commands use special operations forces, which means those forces must operate under different rules depending on the theater. "'The hearing this week is a beginning,' Thornberry told AOL Defense in a follow-up interview. HASC staff aren't drafting any specific proposals yet. In fact, given how complexly the legal and organizational issues cross jurisdictional boundaries -- between the Pentagon and the State Department, between the military's global Special Operations Command and its geographical theater combatant commanders, and between different panels on the House Armed Services Committee itself -- 'it may take two years,' Thornberry said." Thornberry believes that by updating such legal authorities it will allow U.S. special operations forces to better carry out the mission for which they were originally created. Using small special operations teams to train other friendly forces around the world would allow the U.S. military to address global threats through a more indirect approach. "'I would prefer that it's not the US military that has to be everywhere,' said Thornberry -- but, at the same time, '[that] we don't just wait until it hits us here at home like on 9/11.' Instead of sending large US forces abroad, as in Afghanistan and Iraq, Thornberry would rather send small special forces teams to train friendly countries to secure their neighborhoods themselves." The story goes on to quote Special Operations Commander Admiral William McRaven, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations Michael Sheehan, Brig. Gen Sean Mulholland, and Brig. Gen. Ferdinand Irizarry. The full story can be read here. Full video of the hearing can be seen here. Statements for the record from the hearing can be read here. ###
02.12.2013	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following statement about President Obama's Executive Order on cybersecurity: “No executive order can possibly do what needs to be done to protect our networks and our nation. It also cannot take the place of legislation. Strengthening cybersecurity must be collaborative and bipartisan. The only way we are going to be able to move forward is with the House, Senate, and Administration working together and taking steps to make progress on cybersecurity.” ###
02.11.2013	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following statement following the announcement of Dumas Junior High School's victory in the Pantex Middle School Science Bowl: “I would like to congratulate the students from Dumas Junior High School who won the Pantex Middle School Science Bowl on Saturday. These students were judged to be the best among 150 other middle school student participants from our part of Texas. Our state and our country need more young people who are excited about math and science. I am proud of the hard work and dedication that all of these students put into preparing for the competition, and I look forward to meeting the bright, young team from Dumas Junior High School when they come to Washington, D.C. for the National Science Bowl.” The Pantex Middle School Science Bowl was part of the regional tournament of the National Science Bowl and was hosted at West Texas A&M University on Saturday by the Pantex Plant. The competition is a timed quiz game in which the student teams compete against each other by buzzing in with answers to questions from all branches of math and science. The Dumas Junior High School team will be awarded an all-expense paid trip to Washington, D.C. in late April for the National Science Bowl Finals. ###
02.08.2013	With across-the-board sequestration cuts set to take place on March 1, Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) introduced a bill today to replace those arbitrary cuts for the rest of the fiscal year by delaying the full implementation of Obamacare until 2016. “This bill pays for the cost of one year of the automatic cuts by delaying the expensive implementation of Obamacare,” said Rep. Thornberry. “The Administration will not be ready to implement the health care bill by next January, so this bill is an opportunity to avoid a health care disaster. It also protects defense while giving us some time to put together a concrete plan that focuses on the real driver of spending and debt, which is mandatory entitlement spending,” he continued. Sequestration refers to automatic spending cuts that total $1.2 trillion over 10 years, half of the cuts will come from domestic programs and the other half from defense. Mandatory spending programs like Medicaid, Social Security, SNAP (formerly known as the Food Stamp Program), and others are exempt from the cuts. The delay of Obamacare by two years is estimated to save tax payers between $175 and $200 billion, twice the savings achieved by the first year of sequestration. "People and businesses in our part of Texas continue to tell me that the new health care law is a major concern for them because of the massive cost and because it puts government between them and their doctors. We might not be able to repeal it entirely with the current state of divided government, but we can delay it, especially since the Administration will not be ready to implement it next January," said Thornberry. Studies have found that sequestration would result in 1 million to 2 million job losses, cutting our nation’s gross domestic product by about 1 percent. Small businesses have reported that the new health care law has already forced them to trim or even stop offering health care coverage. It is also leading employers to refrain from hiring or investing. “With our high unemployment rate and weak job creation, some fear that our economy cannot sustain the significant, negative consequences of automatic cuts without falling back into recession. The House has passed several bills that reduce our deficit in ways that would not create such a mess in the private sector or hurt our national defense capabilities. It is past time for the President to stop campaigning and support one of those bills,” said Thornberry. Thornberry is also a consponsor of a proposal introduced by House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon to substitute the savings achieved by sequestration with savings achieved through a reduction of the federal civilian workforce. Thornberry said, “There are a number of reasonable options to protect our national security and to cut spending sensible ways.” During the last session of Congress, the House voted to repeal, dismantle, and defund all or parts of the President's health care law. The House also passed several bills to replace across-the-board sequestration cuts with more targeted ones. The Senate did not consider the vast majority of these bills.
01.23.2013	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following comments after the House passed the “No Budget, No Pay Act" with a bipartisan vote of 285-144: "Today the House passed a bill to extend the debt limit until May 18, 2013, and to withhold the pay of members of either the House or Senate if that body does not pass a budget resolution by April 15 as required by law. The bill will force both the House and the Senate to lay out how it would get our fiscal house in order. In the House, we will vote on a budget that balances within ten years. The Senate has not passed any budget in four years, and the intention of this bill is to force them to do what they should have been doing all along. The contrast in the two budgets, plus the upcoming debate on government funding and sequestration, should help make clear where the problem is---too much spending."
01.18.2013	On Monday, February 11, 2013, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) will hold a public hearing at the Lubbock Civic Center from 6:30pm to 8:30pm on the proposed listing of the Lesser Prairie-Chicken (LPC) as a threatened species under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). Additionally, the FWS is holding three other separate LPC hearings in Woodward, Oklahoma, on February 5th, Garden City, Kansas, on February 7th, and Roswell, New Mexico, on February 12th. The hearings will provide an opportunity for FWS to hear concerns from local individuals that will be affected by the listing of the LPC. “Although I am disappointed by the decision to try and list the LPC, coming to these hearings and telling the FWS how you or your business will be affected is an important step in trying to convince them to change their mind,” said Rep. Thornberry. “I have and will continue to engage the FWS throughout this process, and with many of the new and ongoing initiatives to voluntarily protect the LPC, together we have a chance to show that listing the LPC as a threatened species is unnecessary,” he said. If you are unable to attend any of the four public hearings, the FWS is also collecting comments and information from the public electronically and by postal mail and will continue to do so through March 11, 2013. Please visit www.fws.gov/southwest/es/LPC.html for information on how to send comments to the FWS and for more information on the LPC listing. It is expected the FWS will make a final decision on listing the LPC by September 30, 2013. After a similar process in 2012, the FWS chose to keep the Dunes Sagebrush Lizard off of the Endangered Species List due to the voluntary actions by the landowners, industry stakeholders, and the states. Public Hearing Information: Tuesday, February 5, 2013 6:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. High Plains Technology Center Seminar Center 3921 34th Street Woodward, OK 73801 Thursday, February 7, 2013 6:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Garden City Community College 801 N. Campus Drive Garden City, KS 67846-6333 Monday, February 11, 2013 6:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Lubbock Civic Center 1501 Mac Davis Lane Lubbock, TX 79401 Tuesday, February 12, 2013 6:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. ENMU Fine Arts Auditorium 64 University Blvd. Roswell, NM 88203 ###
01.01.2013	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following comments after a vote in the House of Representatives to make current tax rates permanent: "Making the current tax rates permanent for the vast majority of Americans, as this bill does, is a major accomplishment. I continue to hear from many people in our part of Texas that stability in the tax code is necessary for their families and their businesses. Other provisions contained in this bill are important to the people in our district as well, including an answer on the death tax and a short-term extension of the current farm bill. It also prevents a 27% cut in Medicare reimbursement to doctors, which would have made it very difficult for Medicare patients to find a physician to treat them. This bill is a missed opportunity to take meaningful action to deal with our very serious spending problem, and I supported efforts to have significant cuts included in this measure. I also believe that some parts of the bill discourage work and encourage dependency on the government. But tonight is not our last opportunity to fight for reforms and significant cuts. I am a conservative and a realist. We do not have to do all of these things in one bill – and it would be a mistake to try – but we must do them for the sake of our country and our future." *****To read Rep. Thornberry's entire statement for the Congressional Record regarding this bill, please click this link: *****To read a summary of the whole bill, please click this link:
11.30.2012	Today, The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) officials announced its plan to initiate the process to consider whether the Lesser Prairie-Chicken should be listed as “threatened” under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following comments in response to the announcement: “This decision is disappointing. There is way to go before any final decision is made, but this announcement highlights, once again, that the Endangered Species Act (ESA) process is broken and the underlying law is severely flawed. The Fish and Wildlife Service admitted that they do not take any economic impact into account when they consider these designations. That makes no sense at all. The process is also abused and misused regularly, and federal intrusion on private property has been taken far beyond its original purpose. The entire law needs to be repealed, or at least reformed, in the interest of jobs, the economy, and common sense.” The Lesser Prairie-Chicken can be found in Texas, as well as grasslands in Colorado, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Kansas. Despite having faced record droughts over the last several years, the prairie chicken population is on the rise or holding steady in many parts of the country. This fact has led many residents, lawmakers, and others to question the need for new federal regulation to “protect” the birds.
11.30.2012	In an effort to begin reforming the U.S. immigration system with common sense policies, area Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) joined both Republicans and Democrats in the U.S. House in voting to support the STEM Jobs Act of 2012. The bill, H.R. 6429, is designed to attract foreign graduates of U.S. universities with advanced science, technology, engineering, or mathematics (STEM) degrees into the American workforce. “We must manage immigration so that our nation benefits. That includes stopping illegal immigration, but also requires improving our legal immigration system,”said Thornberry. “A random lottery that brings 55,000 people to the United States does not make our country stronger. Keeping highly skilled and highly educated workers here will help meet a critical need,” he continued. American employers face a shortage of workers in science, technology, engineering and math fields, which threatens their ability to continue innovating. Estimates show there are 3 million unfilled jobs requiring workers adept in science, technology, engineering and math in the United States. Bringing high-skilled immigrants who are experts in these fields into the American workforce will help fill this shortage, boost economic growth, and make our companies more competitive. The STEM bill will eliminate the diversity lottery green card program and reallocate up to 55,000 green cards a year to create a new green card category for immigrants who have received STEM doctorates or master’s degrees from U.S. universities. Those immigrants would have to meet the following eligibility requirements in order to apply for a STEM green card: Hold a doctorate or master’s degree from an eligible U.S. university in computer science, engineering, mathematics, or the physical sciences (other than biological sciences); Have taken all their course work (including internet courses) while physically present in the United States; and Be petitioned for by an employer who has gone through labor certification to show that there are not sufficient American workers able, willing, equally qualified and available for the job (unless this requirement is waived by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) as in the national interest). Those immigrants holding only a STEM master’s degrees must also have a baccalaureate degree in a STEM field or in the biological and biomedical sciences. The bill also allows spouses and young children of these U.S. graduates to stay with their loved ones in the U.S. “It doesn’t make sense to have these skilled people spend several years here in the U.S. getting their advanced degrees and then make it almost impossible for them to seek citizenship.” Thornberry continued, “Turning these immigrants and their families away helps our global competitors and, in turn, hurts American jobs and the economy.” ###
11.29.2012	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) continues to press the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to meet the needs of local law enforcement in dealing with illegal immigration. On Tuesday, Thornberry drew attention to the CBP station closures in an official House Floor statement supporting the Jaime Zapata Border Enforcement Security Task Force Act. The legislation, H.R. 915, is aimed at enhancing collaboration and information sharing among agencies within DHS and was one of five bills passed by the U.S. House of Representatives to improve the department. In his statement, the Congressman urges DHS agencies, such as CBP and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), to work and communicate with state and local law enforcement on how best to deal with border security and illegal immigration responsibilities. The statement comes as part of a continued effort by Thornberry to address concerns about a CBP proposal to close several interior Border Patrol stations, six of which are in Texas, including one in Amarillo. Law enforcement officials believe that if the stations are closed and federal agents from CBP or ICE are unable to respond to the scenes of illegal alien apprehensions in the future then they may be forced to release the individuals. Below is a copy of the official statement: Mr. Speaker, Today I am supporting H.R. 915, the Jaime Zapata Border Enforcement Security Task Force Act. This measure would establish Border Enforcement Security Task Force (BEST) teams within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to facilitate “collaboration among federal, state, local, tribal, and foreign law enforcement agencies to execute coordinated activities in furtherance of border security and homeland security” and enhance information sharing among the agencies. This mission is a very important one. And I encourage DHS to consult with local and state law enforcement on how these teams could best be used to fill gaps in border security. I am particularly concerned about a proposal to close several interior Border Patrol stations. As an example, from 2007 through 2011 Border Patrol agents assigned to the Amarillo station made from 383 to 745 apprehensions per year. Despite this volume, the Border Patrol proposed closing its Amarillo station—along with eight other interior stations, six of them in Texas. The absence of the Amarillo interior Border Patrol station would leave no federal agency for hundreds of miles to take custody of illegal aliens or to assist local law enforcement with investigations. I do not know whether the BEST teams authorized in this measure could fulfill the responsibilities of the Border Patrol stations that are proposed for closure. But I strongly recommend that DHS continue to examine ways to ensure that this vital federal responsibility is fulfilled. In July, CBP announced an overview of the proposed station closures, but officials have yet to detail how local law enforcement agencies will deal with immigration enforcement in the affected areas without the assistance of federal agents. Thornberry’s office has been working with other members of the Texas congressional delegation and local law enforcement from the 13thDistrict –including sheriffs, police, prosecutors, elected officials, and others—to press CBP and ICE to provide a plan for what will happen if the stations are closed. Aside from the planned closings in Texas, there are also proposed closings in Billings, Montana; Twin Falls, Idaho; and Riverside, California. The closures have been delayed by Congress until March of next year.
10.19.2012	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) met with Texas law enforcement officials yesterday to discuss the proposed U.S. Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) station closures in Amarillo, Lubbock, San Angelo, and Abilene. Officials from about a dozen local law enforcement agencies took part in the meeting to voice their concerns over the proposed closures and to provide insight on how to ensure there is realistic coordination to fill any gaps in federal enforcement responsibilities for immigration. “We have been able to at least slow the closures of these Border Patrol stations and are still pushing for clear answers to many questions that have not been answered—things like, 'does this make sense from a budget standpoint or from a security and law enforcement point of view?',” said Rep. Thornberry. “We are also pressing for Border Patrol’s plan as to how they will fill the gap in federal responsibilities that these closures will create. Local law enforcement personnel, including the officials I met with yesterday and others across Texas, are on the front line enforcing our laws and keeping us safe. The federal government must back them up and give them the support they need,” Thornberry continued. Earlier this year, Border Patrol officials announced a plan to close nine interior Border Patrol stations, six of which are located in Texas. The station closures in Texas include the offices in San Angelo, Abilene, Dallas, San Antonio, Lubbock, and Amarillo. Law enforcement officials believe that if federal agents from CBP or Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) are unable to respond to the scene of illegal alien apprehensions in the future then they may be forced to release the individuals. “The Supreme Court recently ruled that immigration enforcement can only be carried out by federal agents, and that means that those federal agencies responsible for such enforcement cannot leave our police and sheriff’s departments without the resources necessary to address the problem,” said Thornberry. “Together, we are going to keep the pressure on CBP and ICE to provide us with a viable plan of how immigration enforcement will be dealt with if the stations are closed,” he continued. Due to serious budget shortfalls and legislative obstacles, it is unlikely that Congress will be able to prevent the station closures indefinitely. However, Thornberry’s office has been working with other members of the Texas congressional delegation and local law enforcement from the 13th District –including sheriffs, police, prosecutors, elected officials, and others—to press CBP and ICE to come up with such a plan since the possible station closures were first announced in July. “What’s here (now) works well. These two Border Patrol agents can’t do as much good on the border as they do here,” said Randall County Sheriff Joel Richardson. CBP has said it is closing the stations in order to reassign agents to high-priority areas closer to the border. Officials stated that they estimate a budget savings of $1.3 million a year when the nine posts are closed. However, they also indicated the proposal could result in a cost of $2.47 million in Fiscal Year 2013 alone. Thornberry has previously rejected such estimates as “penny-wise and pound-foolish.” The CBP presented a broad overview of the closures in July, but have yet to detail how local law enforcement agencies could deal with immigration enforcement in the affected areas without the assistance of CBP or ICE agents. Aside from planned closings in Texas, there are also proposed closings in Billings, Montana; Twin Falls, Idaho; and Riverside, California. The closures have been delayed by Congress till March of next year. ###
09.12.2012	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee and a member of the Intelligence Committee, made the following comments on the U.S. Embassy attacks in Libya and Egypt: "The deaths of the Americans serving our nation in Libya are tragic and unnecessary. It reminds us that duty stations in much of the world are dangerous and that most of us take that service for granted. The U.S. must insist that those responsible are brought to justice. Our prayers go out to the families who have lost loved ones."
08.03.2012	In an effort to help boost economic growth and jumpstart job creation, the U.S. House passed two measures this week aimed at tax relief for individuals, families, and businesses. Area Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) joined both Republicans and Democrats in voting to support the bills. “We need to create some certainty for taxpayers, including our small businesses which continue to struggle under the weight of looming tax increases and over-regulation,” said Rep. Thornberry. “Extending all the current tax rates for one year and then setting up a procedure to fast track an overhaul of the tax system in the next year can help offer some of that certainty,” he said. On Wednesday, the House passed H.R. 8, the Job Protection and Recession Prevention Act. The bill extends all tax rates for one year at their current levels. It maintains the 2010 estate tax compromise, which preserves the current $5 million exemption and 35 percent rate. It also continues marriage penalty relief, the $1,000 child tax credit, and provides a two-year AMT patch (for 2012 and 2013), among other provisions. Small business organizations are warning that it is “imperative” that they “are not burdened with a tax increase.” Around 75 percent of small businesses would be negatively affected by higher marginal income tax rates. Increasing the top two marginal rates would cost the economy around 710,000 jobs and would impact nearly a million small employers. The House also passed a bill on Thursday that puts in place expedited procedures to completely overhaul the current tax system next year. The Pathway to Job Creation through a Simpler, Fairer Tax Code Act of 2012 (H.R. 6169) would allow for an expedited process for Congress to make major changes to the system with deadlines in an effort to make it simpler and flatter. Changes include consolidating current tax rates into not more than two brackets and a top rate of not more than 25 percent. The bill would also reduce the corporate tax rate to 25 percent, completely repeal the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT), and close loopholes and other special interest exemptions. “A simpler, fairer tax system that lowers rates across the board and does away with lots of loopholes, exemptions and deductions is a common-sense way to help generate growth and create more taxpayers,” said Thornberry. “It is past the time that the tax system be overhauled and I am encouraged that the House is willing to do it,” he finished. News reports suggest there is support for major tax reform on both sides of the aisle, including among the Republican and Democrat candidates for President. There is also broad support for reform among the American public. According to a recent Rasmussen poll, 77 percent of Americans think it's important to replace the entire federal tax code with something simpler. It is likely that the topic will be debated through the fall and following the November elections. ###
08.02.2012	Comment from Mac Thornberry (R-TX), Chairman of the House Cyber Security Task Force and Vice Chairman of the House Armed Service Committee: "I am disappointed that the Senate is not able to proceed on a cyber bill and am concerned that the Senate inaction may signal to others that we are incapable of taking steps toward improving our nation's cybersecurity. Our vulnerability is not a function of our adversaries' strengths; instead, it is a result of our failure to find common ground on this critical issue. Now, the course of action that makes the most sense is for the Senate to pass the four cybersecurity bills that passed the House nearly four months ago. Those four bills do not encompass all of the issues in the Senate proposals, nor do they solve all of the issues in cyber. But they are an important first step, and each of them passed the House with overwhelming bipartisan votes. It may be possible to borrow some of the Senate privacy provisions to strengthen the House bills even further. We have an obligation to the American people to at least start updating our laws to help protect the nation." ###
07.19.2012	In an ongoing effort to address serious concerns about the six Border Patrol Stations in North and West Texas, the offices of Rep. Mac Thornberry and other officials met with top officials from the U.S. Customs and Border Protection on Wednesday afternoon. The meeting, organized by Thornberry’s staff, included a number of Texas House and Senate offices, as well as Governor Perry’s that share serious concerns about the station closure proposals. The Border Patrol presented the overview of its plan and then answered a variety of questions on the proposal, its origin, its goals, and its implementation. Officials stated that they estimate a budget savings of $1.3 million a year when the nine posts are closed. However, they also indicated the proposal could result in a cost of $2.47 million in Fiscal Year 2013 alone. Thornberry rejected such estimates as “penny-wise and pound-foolish.” He also noted, however, that “We have seen some progress on this issue, as Congress has just denied the Border Patrol’s initial request to accelerate these station closures at this point.” He continued, “Obviously, federal spending must be reduced, but border patrol and interior enforcement must be a national and economic security priority. We are working with Texas offices and others to make that as clear as we can.” West Texas law enforcement officials, prosecutors, and others have been vocal and unified in their opposition to any Border Patrol station closures. Moore County District Attorney David Green says that he relies on Border Patrol agents as witnesses in prosecutions, which is something that other federal agents will not, or are reluctant to, do. Without a witness, he says that he cannot prosecute illegal aliens. Amarillo Police Chief Robert Taylor echoed these sentiments, noting that local Border Patrol agents have provided “invaluable assistance” to Amarillo and the entire Panhandle area. Potter County Sheriff Brian Thomas has urged, “Leave these guys here, they need to be here, they need to stay here, they have plenty of work right here for two guys to do." North Texas officials are involved as well. Wichita Country Sheriff, David Duke, has also expressed his alarm at the proposed closures. “My concern is there are not enough Border Patrol resources throughout Texas, much less closing the six stations that are here. The closest station to Wichita Falls is in Dallas and it rarely had agents in Wichita Falls. If any Border Patrol Office is closed in Texas, this will allow the flow of illegal’s from the border to all points across Texas to become open range for them to travel. Under the proposal, the Dallas station would be one of those to close. “You do not have to be on – or even near – the border to see and feel the effects of illegal immigration on our local communities, and that is something we want to make sure the folks in Washington understand,” said Thornberry. “I continue to hear from law enforcement officials across our area and the state that these closures will have a detrimental effect on our local communities. I want to make sure Border Patrol is aware of their concerns and mine as well,” he continued. The Congressman is following up with questions in addition to those posed in his July 10th letter signed by Thornberry and other Texas Representatives Mike Conaway and Randy Neugebauer. He expects more answers in the days and weeks to come. ###
07.11.2012	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following comments after the U.S.House of Representatives voted again to repeal President Obama’s 2010 health care law with a bipartisan vote of 244 to 185: “The House has voted more than 30 times to repeal, dismantle, and defund different parts of the massive, 2000-plus page law with Republican and Democratic support. Today, we voted to entirely repeal it again. While the Supreme Court ruled the majority of the law was constitutional, that certainly does not mean Obamacare is a good law or that it is right for America. And the Court’s ruling does not have to be the final word on this issue. People in our area and all around the country still want the bill repealed. The House is trying to make that happen.”
07.10.2012	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) is calling on the U.S. Border Patrol (USBP) to delay or reconsider the closure of Border Patrol stations in Amarillo, Lubbock, San Angelo, and Abilene. In a strongly-worded letter sent to USBP Chief Michael Fisher on Tuesday, Rep. Thornberry stated that the closures will leave North and West Texas vulnerable and undermine the overall effort to enforce laws and secure the nation. He expressed concern that the USBP “has not coordinated with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to develop an active plan to assist local authorities after the closures.” Fellow Texas Congressmen Randy Neugebauer and Mike Conaway joined Thornberry in signing the letter. “The U.S. Border Patrol made this announcement without first ensuring that local law enforcement agencies will have the necessary resources to deal with the serious illegal immigration problems in our area,” Thornberry said. During the last fiscal year an average of 142 illegal aliens were apprehended by each agent at the Amarillo and Lubbock stations alone. An additional 638 have been made just this year. The letter highlighted these statistics and questioned whether local law enforcement authorities will have to release individuals in the future if USBP or ICE agents are unable to respond to the scene of illegal alien apprehensions in the future. “Local law enforcement officials and many other people in our area are very troubled by this announcement, and I share their serious concerns,” said Thornberry. “There are a number of unanswered questions here about federal enforcement responsibilities that need to be addressed. This letter is the first step in getting those answers,” he continued. U.S. Customs and Border Protection says it's closing the stations in order to reassign agents to high-priority areas closer to the border. Aside from planned closings in west Texas, there are also proposed closings in Dallas; Billings, Montana; Twin Falls, Idaho; and Riverside, California. To view a copy of the letter click here.
06.28.2012	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following comments after the Supreme Court announced its decision on the health care law: "Today’s ruling by the Supreme Court is disturbing because it basically means that the Federal Government can require us to do anything it pleases and impose a tax on us if we fail to comply. If that were true, there would be few limits on federal power, and the principle of limited powers is one of the basic tenets of our Constitution. Now everyone who is concerned about a government with unlimited power to control our health care must join together to repeal this law through the political process and replace it with commonsense reforms that keep patients and doctors in charge of their care. Many of the provisions of the new law will take effect by 2014, so we have limited time. In addition, it is important to emphasize that there is a better way. We have real problems in our health care system, and there are more limited, commonsense proposals to help solve those problems. Further details are on my website."
06.28.2012	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives voted to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress with a bi-partisan vote of 255-67: It is unfortunate that the House must vote on whether to hold the Attorney General in contempt for refusing to produce documents from his Department. The underlying facts are disturbing and tragic, leading to the death of a Border Patrol officer and several hundred people in Mexico. The Attorney General should work with Congress to understand what went wrong rather than to withhold information and attempt to thwart the investigation. The power of Congress to investigate and conduct oversight of federal agencies has been well established throughout our history. The late claim of Executive Privilege made here, on the other hand, is not consistent with precedent or previous court rulings. One can only conclude that the Attorney General, perhaps on the instruction of the President, is trying to prevent Congress and the American people from learning the truth. # # #
06.21.2012	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) is warning 13th district residents that criminals posing as Special Agents from the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) or other law enforcement agencies are extorting money from the public. “We became aware of this scam when a constituent turned to our office for help,” said Rep. Thornberry. “People should be are aware of this scheme before they become victims themselves. We also want them to know how important it is to report instances like this so these criminals can be found and prosecuted,” he continued. The way the scheme works is that criminals call the victims (who in many cases previously purchased drugs over the Internet or by telephone) and identify themselves as DEA agents or other law enforcement officials. They inform their victims that purchasing drugs over the Internet or by telephone is illegal, and that enforcement action will be taken against them unless they pay a fine. In most cases, the impersonators instruct their victims to pay the "fine" via wire transfer to a designated location, usually overseas. If victims refuse to send money, the impersonators often threaten to arrest them or search their property. Some victims who purchased their drugs using a credit card also reported fraudulent use of their credit cards. Thornberry said it is his understanding that this is not the first instance in which a resident of the 13th district was the potential victim of this scheme and that there have been reports of similar scams across Texas and the country. The Congressman also reminds people that this is a serious crime and cautioned them to be vigilant about their purchases. “Impersonating a federal agent is a violation of federal law and something that is taken very seriously. This is also a good reminder for people to think twice before they buy things on the Internet or over the phone if they have not had a chance to verify the source,” he said. Anyone receiving a telephone call from a person purporting to be a DEA special agent or other law enforcement official seeking money should refuse the demand and report the threat to the Congressman’s office or to local law enforcement authorities. In addition, you can report a potential extortion scam by calling the DEA hotline at 1-877-792-2873. For more information about the extortion scam, you can also visit the Drug Enforcement Administration’s website here.
06.21.2012	With the unemployment rate and gas prices remaining high and concerns over unrest in the Middle East growing, the House today passed a package of domestic energy bills aimed at reducing costs while increasing supply. Area Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted in support of the legislation, which passed the House with a bipartisan vote of 248 to 163. “Instead of creating more regulation and restrictions, we need a commonsense plan to increase production of all kinds of energy here at home. We can drive down energy prices and create more jobs at the same time,” said Thornberry. “These are the goals we are trying to accomplish with this bill,” he continued. The Domestic Energy and Jobs Act encourages an all-of-the-above approach to energy that includes oil, wind, solar, coal, natural gas, shale oil, hydropower, geothermal, and minerals. It seeks to open more land for drilling each year, streamline the energy permitting process, allow for Internet-based auctions for onshore leases, and reduce excessive regulations that has been placed on energy producers. While gas prices have increased by 107 percent since January 2009, White House policies and regulation have slowed the rate of permitting, drilling, and production on federal lands during that time. By setting a firm 30-day timeline for the Interior Secretary to act on a permit, the House-passed legislation will eliminate unnecessary government delays and hurdles that have jeopardized the nation’s energy and economic security. In addition, the bill increases access to the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska. If signed into law, it will reduce bureaucratic delays to the construction of roads and pipelines that are necessary to transport oil and natural gas once it is produced in the Reserve. Supporters of the legislation pointed to the fact that ConocoPhillips waited over four years for a permit to build a bridge and pipeline in order to transport oil and natural gas out of a ready-to-produce field as evidence that the measure would help increase domestic supply by streamlining the process. To help ensure U.S. national security, the bill also requires the Obama Administration to increase American energy production when releasing more oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR). Instead of using fuel from the SPR to temporarily bring gas prices down, the Reserve should be set aside for national energy emergencies, as it was intended. The House has passed nearly 30 bills this year aimed at growing our economy and getting Americans back to work. These bills await Senate action before the end of the current session. ###
06.15.2012	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following comments after the President announced that his Administration is making changes to immigration policy: "No one can deny that deciding what to do with children who were brought to this country illegally is a difficult problem. But it is wrong for the President to decide on his own which of our laws he will enforce and which laws he will not enforce. Even in an election year, our country is governed by the rule of law, not the arbitrary decisions of anyone -- including the President. By taking this action, he has made it more difficult for us to find a sensible agreement to our immigration issues, and he has once again tried to divide the country for his political gain."
06.07.2012	With the Supreme Court decision on the fate of the Obama health care law expected any day, the U.S. House of Representatives today passed a bill (H.R. 436) to repeal the law’s tax on medical devices and to end restrictions on health savings and flexible spending accounts. The measure passed with bipartisan support on a vote of 270 to 146. “Over the past 18 months, the House has continuously worked to repeal and dismantle the Obama health care law,” said Rep. Thornberry. “Removing the medical device tax and restrictions on health spending accounts will increase health care choices for Americans, lower the high cost of health insurance for small-business owners and patients, and prevent thousands from needlessly losing their jobs,” he continued. On Thursday, the House voted to remove the 2.3 percent excise on certain medical devices. According to a recent study, this tax could result in the loss of more than 43,000 jobs for the medical device industry, which employs more than 400,000 workers. The Chief Actuary for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services has also written that the medical device tax and other taxes in the health care law would generally be passed on to consumers and result in higher medical device prices and higher insurance premiums. The bill also repeals certain restrictions on Health Savings Accounts (HSAs) and Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs) put in place by the new health care law. Millions of Americans use HSAs and FSAs to pay for qualified medical expenses on a pre-tax basis. Qualified expenses include costs for which an insurance company will not reimburse such as deductibles, copayments, and non-covered services Qualified expenses did also include over-the-counter (OTC) medications that are purchased without a prescription before the Obama health care law. H.R. 436 repeals this restriction and allows for the purchase of over-the-counter medicine paid for with these pre-tax accounts. Additionally, H.R. 436 allows employees to cash out up to $500 of their remaining FSA balance at the end of the year and have it taxed as regular wages. Under current law, employees must forfeit any unused balance of their FSA back to their employer. “Health care reform should expand patients’ ability to receive quality care and help reduce the cost, not tax and restrict care like the new health law does,” said Thornberry. On the same day the House passed its latest round of health care repeals, a new national poll indicates that more than two-thirds of Americans surveyed think all or some of the health care law should be overturned by the Supreme Court. Results show that 41 percent of those surveyed think the health care law should be overturned completely, while an additional 27 percent said that they want the court to keep the law but overturn the mandate.
05.21.2012	The recent blog posts on the topic of bringing America’s public diplomacy and communications efforts into the information age is an excellent example of how bad, incomplete, and erroneous information moves at the speed of light. It actually makes our case—and that is we need to be able to counter inaccurate information as quickly as possible, especially when it deals with our country’s security. This legislation to update the Smith-Mundt law has been reviewed by House Members in both the majority and minority, as well as the staff of multiple committees. In fact, updating this law has been the topic of much discussion and review over the past ten years. There is no shortage of evidence that interpretations of the law hinder our ability to communicate in a global environment. There are CRS reports, congressional testimony, news articles, academic pieces, and other studies which make the case that changes to Smith-Mundt are needed to assist with our country’s strategic communication and public diplomacy efforts. This is about access to information in an information age. Removing the restriction on domestic access to public diplomacy material would actually increase the oversight by Congress and the public so we know what is being said by our own agencies. In addition, the legislation states very clearly that no funds for the Department of State or the Broadcasting Board of Governors shall be used to influence public opinion in the United States. Finally, it does not authorize any information activities by the Department of Defense. A casual observer, with minimal effort, could do a Google search and see all the work that has been done on this topic. It is unfortunate that was not the case with the blog in question.
05.18.2012	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-TX), the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement praising House passage of the FY13 National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 4310): "This is a strong, bipartisan bill that supports our troops and their missions. At the same time, it also recognizes the realities of our financial situation and includes provisions that seek to make sure that taxpayers get every dollar of value possible for the money we spend for defense." "Our work as a Committee and a Congress, however, does not end with the passage of this defense bill. Providing for our common defense is one of our most serious constitutional responsibilities. With each day that passes, sequestration looms larger. These arbitrary and automatic cuts remain an enormous danger to our military and our national security, and Congress must do something about it." "Threats against our country and our ideals continue to grow and evolve. Congress has a responsibility to make strategic investments in our national security. This means that even in a time of tight budgets, Congress must also ensure that we can defend the country and keep the promises we have made to those who serve in the military."
05.15.2012	Congressmen Mac Thornberry (R-TX) and Adam Smith (D-WA) recently introduced “The Smith-Mundt Modernization Act of 2012” (H.R. 5736). The bill modifies a Cold War-era law that hampers diplomatic, defense, and other agencies’ ability to communicate in the 21st century. “We continue to face a multitude of threats and we need to be able to counter them in a multitude of ways. Communication is among the most important,” said Rep. Thornberry. “This outdated law ties the hands of America’s diplomatic officials, military, and others by inhibiting our ability to effectively communicate in a credible and transparent way. Congress has a responsibility to fix the situation,” Thornberry said. “While the Smith-Mundt Act of 1948 was developed to counter communism during the Cold War, it is outdated for the conflicts of today,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Effective strategic communication and public diplomacy should be front-and-center as we work to roll back al-Qaeda’s and other violent extremists’ influence among disaffected populations. An essential part of our efforts must be a coordinated, comprehensive, adequately resourced plan to counter their radical messages and undermine their recruitment abilities. To do this, Smith-Mundt must be updated to bolster our strategic communications and public diplomacy capacity on all fronts and mediums – especially online.” At issue is the Smith-Mundt Act of 1948, which was created during the Cold War to provide the State Department authority to counter Soviet propaganda in foreign media. The bill was later amended to restrict the dissemination of public diplomacy information material within the United States. Contemporary interpretations of the law interfere with a range of communications activities, including public diplomacy, military communication efforts, and emergency and disaster response activities. It has also led to inaccurate reporting by American media about issues affecting global security. For example, in 2009 the law prohibited a Minneapolis-based radio station with a large Somali-American audience from replaying a Voice of America-produced piece rebutting terrorist propaganda. Even after the community was targeted for recruitment by al-Shabab and other extremists, government lawyers refused the replay request, noting that Smith-Mundt tied their hands. Due to legal questions surrounding interpretations of the law, domestic news organizations have been reluctant to use U.S. international broadcasters for source material. Private news organizations are also hampered by some of the restrictions. In 2009, the Christian Science Monitor, Wall Street Journal, Washington Post, and Reuters each inaccurately reported poll results, based on a single Honduran newspaper source, that a plurality of Hondurans supported the coup against the government. VOA reported the Gallup poll results about the coup accurately. Emergency response capabilities have been impacted as well. The 2010 earthquake in Haiti required Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG) to provide emergency transmission in Creole. An offer from Sirius satellite radio to carry the broadcasts was bogged down by concerns of domestic dissemination. In 1992, the Department of Defense was advised that it would be unable to use its information operations capabilities to support civil authorities following Hurricane Andrew. To help address multiple barriers to effective communication, H.R. 5736 eliminates the existing ban on domestic dissemination of public diplomacy material, which prohibits such material from being viewed in the United States. Eliminating the ban updates the law to reflect technology advances, removes a barrier to more effective and efficient public diplomacy programs, provides transparency of these programs to U.S. citizens, and allows the material to be available to inform domestic audiences. The legislation also strengthens current law preventing the State Department and BBG from targeting domestic audiences by stating specifically that public diplomacy programs are intended for foreign audiences abroad and emphasizing that the State Department and BBG shall not influence public opinion in the United States. Additionally, the measure stipulates that provisions related to dissemination of public diplomacy information material apply only to the State Department and BBG to prevent misinterpretation by other agencies, particularly the Department of Defense. Finally, it emphasizes that the State Department and BBG are not to compete with private news organizations. Scholars, public officials, and affected agencies have stated that they believe changes to the law are needed. A June 2009 House Armed Services Committee report suggested that the law is hindering ongoing military efforts, suggesting that “over the past sixty years, applicability of this law has affected the development of Department of Defense policy…The Committee does not believe that Public Law 80–402 [Smith-Mundt] should constrain the Department of Defense and its partners’ strategic communication and messaging efforts abroad.” The U.S Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy in a July 2011 also identified Smith-Mundt as one of the “challenges to a unified U.S. public diplomacy” and suggested changes may be required. In addition, the Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG), at its meeting in October 2011, adopted a new five-year strategic plan that calls for repealing the ban on domestic dissemination of BBG programs contained in the 1948 Smith-Mundt Act. # # ## # #
05.10.2012	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, today announced that the Committee approved the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (H.R. 4310) by a vote of 56 to 5. The bill authorizes $642 billion in total spending for the Department of Defense and the national security programs of the Department of Energy, including funding for programs at Amarillo’s Bell Helicopter plant and for operations at Pantex. “Clearly, we are operating in a time of declining resources. Our debt and deficit mean we have to make difficult choices,” said Rep. Thornberry. “Already, defense has taken half a trillion dollars in cuts. And while this bill also makes significant savings, it keeps our promises to our troops and veterans and ensures that our military can continue to defend the country effectively. In fact, the Committee adopted an amendment that prevents DoD from doing any planning or preparations for a new round of base closures this year,” he continued. Locally, the annual defense policy bill authorizes funding for programs at Bell Helicopter and Pantex. Bell Helicopter projects funded include a total of $2.109 billion for the V-22 Osprey program, $851.5 million for Huey (UH-1Y) and Cobra (AH-1Z) helicopters, and $346.348 million for the Kiowa Warrior helicopter. These amounts include the purchase of new aircraft, upgrades and modifications to existing ones, and research and development. Bell Helicopter's Amarillo plant is the primary location for work conducted on the Osprey and Huey/Cobra programs. The facility also performs work on the Kiowa Warrior helicopters. In addition, the defense bill also authorizes a new, multi-year contract to purchase 98 V-22 aircraft over the next five years for the Marine Corps, the Department of the Air Force, and U.S. Special Operations Command. The legislation also provides approximately $690 million for Pantex for weapons assembly and disassembly, weapons evaluation, research and development, and other funding for staff and support. This represents a nearly 17 percent increase, or approximately $100 million dollars, over the President’s most recent budget request. "Our part of Texas plays an important role in our nation’s defense and this bill continues that tradition. Even while we are cutting programs and spending, this latest defense bill shows sustained and strong support for local assets like Pantex and Bell. It really is a testament to their fine work and solid reputations," said Thornberry. Overall, the legislation authorizes $536 billion for the Department of Defense’s base budget, $88 billion for operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, and $18 billion for the Department of Energy’s atomic energy defense programs. Included in the legislation is a 1.7 percent across-the-board pay raise for all members of the Armed Forces in 2013. The bill rejects the proposed increases by the Obama Administration for higher fees for current military personnel and retirees under Tricare. Additionally, it puts limits on future increases in pharmacy co-payments for the first time. In response to the Obama Administration’s request to cut the end-strength of the Armed Forces, the legislation seeks to preserve military readiness by slowing the pace of personnel reductions. It places an annual cap on any reductions in the size of the ground force, including limiting reductions of Army personnel to no more than 15,000 annually in fiscal years 2014 through 2017. The bill would allow personnel who may be forced to leave military service as a result of reductions in manpower to have full access to military family housing for six months. Thornberry said he was hopeful the House Leadership would bring H.R. 4310 to a vote by the full House before Memorial Day.
05.10.2012	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, today announced that the committee approved the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (H.R. 4310) by a vote of 56 to 5. The bill authorizes $642 billion in total spending for the Department of Defense and the national security programs of the Department of Energy. It includes funding for programs at Sheppard Air Force Base. “Clearly, we are operating in a time of declining resources. Our debt and deficit mean we have to make difficult choices,” said Rep. Thornberry. “Already, defense has taken half a trillion dollars in cuts. And while this bill also makes significant savings, it keeps our promises to our troops and veterans and ensures that our military can continue to defend the country effectively. In fact, the Committee adopted an amendment that prevents DoD from doing any planning or preparations for a new round of base closures this year,” he continued. Overall, the legislation would authorize $536 billion for the Department of Defense’s base budget, $88 billion for operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, and $18 billion for the Department of Energy’s atomic energy defense programs. Included in the legislation is a 1.7 percent across-the-board pay raise for all members of the Armed Forces in 2013. The bill rejects the proposed increases by the Obama Administration for higher fees for current military personnel and retirees under Tricare. Additionally, it puts limits on future increases in pharmacy co-payments for the first time. In response to the Obama Administration’s request to cut the end-strength of the Armed Forces, the legislation seeks to preserve military readiness by slowing the pace of personnel reductions. It places an annual cap on any reductions in the size of the ground force, including limiting reductions of Army personnel to no more than 15,000 annually in fiscal years 2014 through 2017. The bill would allow personnel who may be forced to leave military service as a result of reductions in manpower to have full access to military family housing for six months. Thornberry said he was hopeful the House Leadership would bring H.R. 4310 to a vote by the full House before Memorial Day.
05.09.2012	A local Wichita Falls high school student has been selected to represent the 13th Congressional District of Texas in the nationwide 2012 Congressional Art Contest. A photograph submitted by Lily McCarthy, daughter of Barry and Lisa McCarthy of Wichita Falls, will be displayed in the hallways of the United States Capitol for an entire year. Lily’s photograph, entitled “Street Vendor,” was selected by an independent panel of educators and art professionals from across the district as the winning entry from the 13th District of Texas. Steve Hilton, a professor of art at Midwestern State University and one of the contest judges, said the winning entry was “not only a well done photograph technically, but it speaks to issues that are relevant to all of us here in the United States every day.” Julie Talley, another one of this year’s judges and the Curator of Education at the Amarillo Museum of Art, praised the contest as an opportunity for young artists to display their talent alongside their peers from across the country. She noted that visitors to the exhibition at the Capitol “will gain a perspective of the diverse backgrounds and cultures” that make up the United States. The Congressional Art Contest is a national competition that selects one piece of artwork from all 435 U.S. congressional districts and territories for a year-long exhibit in Washington, D.C. The annual contest for high school students has taken place since 1982. Winners of the competition are invited to Washington, D.C., for a special reception to honor the winners. Lily and her mother, Lisa, plan to attend the event this year and visit with area Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) while they are in town. Lily’s art teacher, Chris Mayfield, said, “I am very proud of Lily.” He continued, “this has been a big year for her.” Lily is a senior at Wichita Falls High School and plans to attend the Savannah College of Art & Design (SCAD) in Savannah, Georgia this fall.
04.27.2012	In an effort to begin addressing the nation’s cybersecurity vulnerabilities, the U.S. House of Representatives today passed a number of bills to help protect private and public computer networks. Passage of the bills follows nearly a year of work on the issue in the House, led in part by area Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon). “Together, these bills begin to close the expanding gap between cyber threats and technological changes and the outdated laws and policies that cannot keep up with them,” said Rep. Thornberry. “These bills are the product of many months of work, an effort that I have been privileged to help lead in the House. Now I hope the Senate will follow suit,” he continued. The legislation includes an update to the Federal Information Security Act of 2002 -- to push the government to do a better job of protecting its networks, requiring continuous monitoring and defense in depth. Additionally, there are two bills that will focus more federal research and development efforts on cyber, complementing the massive private sector investment in this area. The four bills also include legislation to help with information sharing. The federal government now has a great deal of information about threats, which it uses to help defend military and intelligence networks. But much of that capability is sidelined when it comes to defending the rest of the country -- particularly critical infrastructure, which includes things like electrical power systems, gas and oil storage, financial systems, and water supply. The new House bill would allow government information to be shared with the private sector, private sector information to be shared – voluntarily – with the government, and private entities to share with each other. There are also strong safeguards to ensure that information is not misused and privacy of individual Americans is protected. House leaders are pleased with passage of the bills. “Protecting American jobs and security from the threat of cyber attacks is critical, and the House has now taken some common-sense steps to do that,” said Speaker of the House John Boehner. “Many people played a role in making these bills a reality, and in particular I would like to commend Mac Thornberry for his leadership on this issue in the House, his efforts in leading the Cyber Task Force, and his commitment to helping assure these bills’ passage,” he said. House Majority Leader Eric Cantor said, “As Chairman of the House Cybersecurity Task Force, Representative Thornberry’s leadership paved the way for the passage of four significant, bipartisan measures to update our nation’s cyber laws. I thank Mac for his hard work to promote economic growth, innovation and protect our national security interests.” In early 2011, Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) and Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-Va.) stated that Congress could not go another session without beginning to reduce the nation’s vulnerability in cyberspace. They created a Cybersecurity Task Force to make recommendations and coordinate among the nine House committees with significant jurisdiction on this issue. They asked Thornberry to lead the effort. Since the task force issued recommendations last fall, the various committees have been devising legislation. The bills that passed the House today incorporate some of the Thornberry Task Force recommendations. The bills will now be sent to the Senate for consideration.
04.27.2012	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following comments after the Department of Labor announced the agency will no longer pursue the proposed rule dealing with children who work in agriculture: “I am pleased the Obama Administration has finally decided to withdraw its misguided rule that would have prevented youth from working on area farms and ranches as they have for generations. It is a small but important victory for common sense and a bit of relief for rural areas from the onslaught of regulations that this Administration has continued to push in order to further its reach into our everyday lives.” NOTE: The Department of Labor first published the proposed rule on September 2, 2011, and after receiving numerous comments, announced on April 26, 2012 that the rule is being withdrawn and will no longer be pursued for the duration of this Administration. Congressman Thornberry contacted Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis multiple times asking to immediately suspend the proposed changes. He is also currently a cosponsor of legislation to prevent the rule from going into effect.
03.29.2012	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) made the following comments after the House passed the fiscal year 2013 budget: “Today the House passed a budget that lays out a blueprint to get the government’s fiscal house in order. It shrinks the size and scope of government, cuts billions in spending, and makes the government more accountable. It fulfills the first obligation of the federal government – to defend the country – and would begin to reform mandatory spending programs that consume about 2/3 of the budget. And it also begins the process to simplify and reform the tax code. The Senate has not passed a budget in 3 years, and it appears unlikely that it will do so this year. But it is still important for the House to fulfill its responsibilities under the law and to offer the country a roadmap for what could be achieved in the future. This budget is a positive vision for real change in government and for greater opportunity for every hard-working American." Press Releases | Opinion Pieces | In the News | Committee Statements | eNewsletters | Photos Email | eNewsletter | Facebook | Twitter | Google + | Tumblr | Mac’s Blog | YouTube | Video Mailbox | Flickr
03.26.2012	Washington, D.C. –U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-TX), the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee and a senior member of the House Intelligence Committee, today made the following statement after news reports that President Obama told Russian President Dmitri Medvedev that he will have "more flexibility" to deal with contentious issues like missile defense after the U.S. presidential election: "President Obama's comments to Russian President Medvedev are very disturbing. By telling the Russians that “This is my last election. After my election I have more flexibility,” the clear implication is that he cannot tell the American people before the election what he plans to do after the election. One of the fears, of course, is that the President intends to bargain away the ability to defend the U.S. and its allies from missile attack and perhaps that he will make further cuts in our already minimal nuclear deterrent. One of the President’s most serious and solemn constitutional responsibilities is serving as the country’s Commander-in-Chief. National security decisions should not be based on politics or election calendars; they should be based on what will keep Americans safe. And any President must be honest with the American people about actions he believes are needed."
03.22.2012	Just days before the Supreme Court is set to begin reviewing the constitutionality of the new health care law and on the heels of the two-year anniversary of the bill’s signing, the U.S. House of Representatives today passed legislation to abolish the law’s Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) and to reform medical liability rules. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), a co-sponsor of the IPAB repeal, voted in favor of the bill. “When Republicans took control of the House in January 2011, one of the first things that we did was vote to repeal the new health care law in its entirety,” said Rep. Thornberry. “Since then we have voted 25 times to repeal, dismantle, and defund different parts of the massive, 2000-plus page law,” he continued. On Thursday, the House voted to abolish the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB). Originally, the new law authorized IPAB to “control excessive Medicare cost increases.” Critics say that the panel would have given 15 unelected and unaccountable bureaucrats the authority to make decisions related to what care patients can access and whether insurance would pay for it. Organizations ranging from the American Medical Association, to military and veterans groups, and Easter Seals – more than 390 groups and counting – have expressed support for ending the IPAB. The House also voted in support of reform to medical malpractice laws. The bill places a $250,000 cap on noneconomic damages, which is similar to limits that Texas has. It also limits attorney’s fees and establishes a statute of limitations for filing health care lawsuits. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that these reforms could reduce medical liability premiums by 10 percent nationally. Over the past year or so, the House has led the way in ending two separate programs that are part of the law, including the 1099 IRS-mandate and the free choice vouchers. Both measures passed the Senate, and the President has already signed them into law. The House has also passed a repeal of the long-term care entitlement program known as the CLASS Act. The Administration has ceased implementation of this program. And in spending bills, the House defunded $305 million from the IRS, limiting their ability to implement some of the tax provisions in the health care law. “I strongly believe that the Obama health care bill was a mistake and it is already adversely affecting health care for many Americans. I support repealing the law or dismantling it piece by piece and then starting over,” said Thornberry. “We need to make improvements to our health care system. Pursuing reform in smaller increments can not only be more successful, but attract the support and trust of the American people as well,” he concluded. Press Releases | Opinion Pieces | In the News | Committee Statements | eNewsletters | Photos Email | eNewsletter | Facebook | Twitter | Google + | Tumblr | Mac’s Blog | YouTube | Video Mailbox | Flickr
03.16.2012	On March 24th, U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, will hold the 13th district’s Service Academy Forum in Amarillo. The annual event provides information to interested students and their parents about attending the United States Service Academies. The Amarillo forum will take place on Saturday, March 24, from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Amarillo Public Library’s Southwest Branch. These forums are designed for potential nominees in their junior or senior year of high school. However, all local students, parents, and counselors are invited to attend the event. Representatives from West Point, the Naval Academy, and the Air Force Academy will give presentations and answer questions. Rep. Thornberry and his staff will also be available to explain the application process. “There is not a day that goes by that I am not impressed and inspired by those who serve in our Armed Forces. Nominating young people to serve as the future leaders in the military is an important part of my job and one that I take seriously,” said Thornberry, who currently serves as the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. As a Member of Congress, Rep. Thornberry is allowed to nominate a limited number of students for each service academy. Applications for nominations must be submitted to the Congressman’s office by December 1 of a student’s senior year. After reviewing Congressional nominations, final selections and offers of acceptance are made by the Service Academies. Nominees who are accepted by the academies receive a free education. In return, they agree to serve in the military for a minimum of five years after graduation. You can learn more about this event on Rep. Thornberry's website or Facebook page. Amarillo Service Academy Forum Saturday, March 24, 2012 1:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. Amarillo Public Library – Southwest Branch 6801 Southwest 45th Avenue Amarillo, TX Press Releases | Opinion Pieces | In the News | Committee Statements | eNewsletters | Photos Email | eNewsletter | Facebook | Twitter | Google + | Tumblr | Mac’s Blog | YouTube | Video Mailbox | Flickr
02.29.2012	U.S. Representative Mac Thornberry (R-TX) has received a national award for his work in cybersecurity. Yesterday, The RSA Conference, which is the world’s leading information security conference and exposition, announced that Thornberry was being honored with its “Excellence in the Field of Public Policy Award.” The recognition comes as part of the organization’s 15th annual awards program that honors Information Security innovators and practitioners in mathematics, public policy and security practices. "Congressman Thornberry’s leadership has been vital on cybersecurity issues in Congress for a number of years, and his chairmanship of the Republican Cybersecurity Task Force in the U.S. House of Representatives has been indispensable," said Art Coviello, Executive Chairman of RSA and Executive Vice President at EMC Corporation. "Congressman Thornberry is advancing cybersecurity policies in the U.S. Congress that will help protect America's national and economic security while also preserving U.S. technology leadership and innovation. We are pleased that the RSA Conference has recognized him with the prestigious Award for Excellence in the Field of Public Policy this year and thank him for his ongoing efforts to pass effective, bi-partisan federal legislation that addresses our nation’s most pressing cybersecurity challenges." Thornberry, who currently serves as the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee and as a senior member of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, has been on the leading edge of cybersecurity issues for a number of years. In early 2011, Thornberry was tapped by the Speaker of the House and Majority Leader to spearhead a Cybersecurity Task Force to guide legislative action on this growing national security and economic threat. Over the course of a year, Thornberry led a diverse group of lawmakers representing nine major House committees to draft recommendations in a number of areas including updating existing laws, protecting critical infrastructure, and sharing cybersecurity information. The Task Force released its recommendations last October and received a favorable response from Republicans and Democrats in the House and the Senate, as well as the White House, private businesses, and other outside organizations. The House of Representatives is currently working on a number of legislative proposals that reflect elements of the Task Force’s recommendations. Click here to download an updated official photo of Rep. Mac Thornberry Press Releases | Opinion Pieces | In the News | Committee Statements | eNewsletters | Photos Email | eNewsletter | Facebook | Twitter | Google + | Tumblr | Mac’s Blog | YouTube | Video Mailbox | Flickr
02.28.2012	A group of 60 people got a chance to be members of Congress for the day and create their own version of the federal budget in a forum at West Texas A & M University led by the Concord Coalition, a national grassroots organization, and Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon). “The debt and deficit are top concerns for people in our area and across the country, but the issues are often complicated and the solutions seem beyond reach,” said U.S. Rep. Thornberry. “Young people will be dealing with the budget crisis and its impact for the longest amount of time, so it is important for them to see the big picture about what options are available and what is at stake,” Thornberry continued. The Concord Coalition is a national, grassroots organization dedicated to educating the public about the causes and consequences of federal budget deficits, the long-term challenges facing America's unsustainable entitlement programs, and how to build a sound economy for future generations. The group’s workshop, entitled Principles & Priorities, teaches participants about the federal budget and provides realistic insight into how some of the policy proposals in today's news would affect the nation's bottom line and the constituents of the 13th district. They have conducted more than 200 budget events all over the country. “Once they get into the exercise, people seem to really enjoy it,” said Phil Smith, who serves as the Southern Regional Director of the Concord Coalition. “Many of them, after looking at the actual numbers, find substantial deficit-reduction more difficult than they had assumed. They discover, for example, that what seems like wasteful spending to one person may be considered an essential government program to another,” he said. After an introduction by Thornberry and a presentation by Smith, participants worked in small groups to develop their own version of a federal budget. They examined a variety of spending and tax options in categories. Mr. Smith warned them that some options would work against a balanced budget. A list of more than 35 options included a freeze on all domestic discretionary spending, increasing the maximum taxable earnings cap for the Social Security payroll tax, reducing the federal subsidy for AMTRAK, eliminating the one dollar bill, and not extending any of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts. A number of participants noted that making budget decisions was much harder than they thought. “We really wanted to try and get a positive fiscal impact with some savings,” said Aimee Fisher, a senior at West Texas A&M University. “Our group was willing to listen to each other to find common ground and make some progress toward a sustainable federal budget,” she continued. Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) works with college students and community leaders to create a simulation of the federal budget. ###
02.28.2012	A group of 60 people got a chance to be members of Congress for the day and create their own version of the federal budget in a forum at Midwestern State University led by the Concord Coalition, a national grassroots organization, and Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon). “The debt and deficit are top concerns for people in our area and across the country, but the issues are often complicated and the solutions seem beyond reach,” said U.S. Rep. Thornberry. “Young people will be dealing with the budget crisis and its impact for the longest amount of time, so it is important for them to see the big picture about what options are available and what is at stake,” Thornberry continued. The Concord Coalition is a national, grassroots organization dedicated to educating the public about the causes and consequences of federal budget deficits, the long-term challenges facing America's unsustainable entitlement programs, and how to build a sound economy for future generations. The group’s workshop, entitled Principles & Priorities, teaches participants about the federal budget and provides realistic insight into how some of the policy proposals in today's news would affect the nation's bottom line and the constituents of the 13th district. They have conducted more than 200 budget events all over the country. “Once they get into the exercise, people seem to really enjoy it,” said Phil Smith, who serves as the Southern Regional Director of the Concord Coalition. “Many of them, after looking at the actual numbers, find substantial deficit-reduction more difficult than they had assumed. They discover, for example, that what seems like wasteful spending to one person may be considered an essential government program to another,” he said. After an introduction by Thornberry and a presentation by Smith, participants worked in small groups to develop their own version of a federal budget. They examined a variety of spending and tax options in categories. Mr. Smith warned them that some options would work against a balanced budget. A list of more than 35 options included a freeze on all domestic discretionary spending, increasing the maximum taxable earnings cap for the Social Security payroll tax, reducing the federal subsidy for AMTRAK, eliminating the one dollar bill, and not extending any of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts. A number of participants noted that making budget decisions was much harder than they thought. Jennifer Yoswa, a senior at Midwestern State University, said, “every participant at the table had friends and family in certain situations that influenced the way we wanted things done.” She continued, “we all had different goals and desires, but, in the end, wanted to do what was best for the budget.” Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) worked with college students and community leaders to create a simulation of the federal budget ###
02.14.2012	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry, the leader of the House Cybersecurity Task Force, made the following comments about the Senate introduction of the "Cybersecurity Act of 2012" (S. 2105) authored by Senators Joe Lieberman, ID-Conn., Susan Collins, R-Maine, Jay Rockefeller, D-W.Va., and Dianne Feinstein, D-Ca.: “It is clear that there is widespread agreement on the scope and seriousness of the cybersecurity threat. The danger and growing cost to our economy and national security is well-documented and undeniable. So it is encouraging to see that many aspects of the Senate bill introduced today align with elements contained in the House Cybersecurity recommendations that we released in October 2011. The House also has a number of cyber bills that committees are working through the process. Although there are some areas where we have differences of opinion, such as how to approach critical infrastructure and incentives, I am hopeful that we can find common ground and get something done by the end of the year.” The House Cybersecurity Task Force, comprised of representatives from the nine committees with significant jurisdiction over cybersecurity, was created early in 2011 by Speaker John Boehner and Majority Leader Eric Cantor. The group of lawmakers was charged with drafting a framework for legislative action on cyber for this Congress. The Task Force delivered its recommendations to the Speaker and Majority Leader on October 3, 2011. The report has been well-received on Capitol Hill, as well as in other places in the public and private sectors. You can find the report here. Press Releases | Opinion Pieces | In the News | Committee Statements | eNewsletters | Photos Email | eNewsletter | Facebook | Twitter | Google + | Tumblr | Mac’s Blog | YouTube | Video Mailbox | Flickr
02.13.2012	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement after the President's 2013 budget announcement: "It is disappointing that the President’s latest budget offers more of the same—more stimulus-type spending, higher taxes, and even more debt. It does nothing to address the unsustainable and unaffordable automatic spending on entitlements that continues to consume a larger and larger part of the budget. Additionally, the President projects another trillion dollar deficit for 2012, making it the fourth consecutive year with a deficit of a trillion dollars or higher. All of these things represent an enormous threat to the health of our economy and to the future of our country. Piling mountains of debt on our children and grandchildren is exactly the wrong thing to do to get us back on the right track. We need to make commonsense choices to cut spending and make government work better. I hope that the House will follow this approach when we pass our budget in the next few weeks." Press Releases | Opinion Pieces | In the News | Committee Statements | eNewsletters | Photos Email | eNewsletter | Facebook | Twitter | Google + | Tumblr | Mac’s Blog | YouTube | Video Mailbox | Flickr
01.26.2012	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Texas) issued the following statement after Department of Defense budget announcement: "The latest outline of the President’s budget request includes some promising changes, but also presents some serious dangers and illusory savings. For example, I agree that cybersecurity, Special Operations, and science and technology programs are essential to our national security. Maintaining the three legs of the nuclear triad is also critical. However, some of the proposals do not make a whole lot of sense and will likely not save taxpayers money in the long-run. Stretching out procurement over longer periods of time will cost us more, not less. Cutting end strength sounds good on paper, but may cause additional complications across the services. Finally, the suggestion for another round of BRAC is ridiculous, and there is likely little support in Congress for such a thing--on either side of the aisle or either side of the Capitol. It will cause disruptions across the services, yet offer little in terms of savings. The latest GAO report actually found that the 2005 BRAC will not even break even until 2018 and that 42 percent of the recommendations will result in no savings whatsoever. Obviously, none of this can become law without Congress agreeing to it. We will be going through the proposal with a fine-tooth comb and making an independent judgment. I look forward to that process." Press Releases | Opinion Pieces | In the News | Committee Statements | eNewsletters | Photos Email | eNewsletter | Facebook | Twitter | Google + | Tumblr | Mac’s Blog | YouTube | Video Mailbox | Flickr
01.24.2012	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement after President Obama’s State of the Union speech: “I was disappointed to hear very little in the President’s remarks that displayed strong leadership and serious solutions that would help us get the economy moving. He proposed lots of new programs and lots of new tax breaks that would mostly benefit those willing to submit themselves to more government control. But none of these suggestions really offered a clear path toward fixing the economy and creating jobs. One thing I did agree with, and I think most Americans would as well, is the success of the military—whether it be the Osama bin Laden raid or the daily defense of our freedoms. I also agree we need an all of the above energy strategy to improve both our national and economic security. But I wish his actions matched his rhetoric on energy issues and many others. Most of us were taught at an early age that you must learn from your mistakes. I think the evidence is clear that this President’s policies have not worked. Yet, despite these failures, he is not willing to turn around and take on the big issues facing our country. I hope he will reconsider his approach, get government out of the way, and take a different path that considers economic opportunity for all Americans.” ### Join the conversation about tonight's State of the Union Address on Mac's Facebook page (http://www.facebook.com/repmacthornberry). Press Releases | Opinion Pieces | In the News | Committee Statements | eNewsletters | Photos Email | eNewsletter | Facebook | Twitter | Google + | Tumblr | Mac’s Blog | YouTube | Video Mailbox | Flickr
01.18.2012	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement in response to President Obama's decision to reject the Keystone XL pipeline project: "The Obama Administration should be embarrassed by this decision. Once again, they are denying the country a reliable source of energy and thousands of new American jobs." Click here for an ".mp3" version of Thornberry's statement. (Audio file: /UploadedFiles/Keystone.mp3) Press Releases | Opinion Pieces | In the News | Committee Statements | eNewsletters | Photos Email | eNewsletter | Facebook | Twitter | Google + | Tumblr | Mac’s Blog | YouTube | Video Mailbox | Flickr
01.05.2012	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry, Vice Chair of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement in response to President Obama's Defense Strategy Rollout released during a press conference at the Pentagon earlier today: "The “Strategic Guidance” issued by the Obama Administration today is primarily a series of vague statements and aspirational goals. Calling a piece of paper a “strategy” does not make it one. What really matters are the specifics on people, weapons, and budgets, and those have not yet been revealed. It would be a terrible mistake to squander the defense capabilities our forces have achieved over the last ten years. I’m also concerned that over the coming year there may be a rush to leave Afghanistan before it can defend itself or prevent terrorists from again using it as a sanctuary. I worry about our ability to help nations across the arc of instability -- from South America through Africa to South Asia -- defend themselves and to thwart global threats. We do not need a national security strategy based on the political calendar." Press Releases | Opinion Pieces | In the News | Committee Statements | eNewsletters | Photos Email | eNewsletter | Facebook | Twitter | Google + | Tumblr | Mac’s Blog | YouTube | Video Mailbox | Flickr
12.16.2011	For the second year in a row, the U.S. House approved a funding bill that cuts billions in discretionary spending. U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) voted in support of the bipartisan bill, which funds the government through September 2012. The final vote was 296 to 121. “This year has been a challenging one. Yet overall, the House has been pretty successful at reversing the growth of government and changing the debate from spending more to spending less,” said Thornberry. “The result is real cuts, which gives us a good starting point to begin work in 2012,” he continued. Overall, discretionary spending has been cut roughly 10 percent since the new Congress took office. The funding bill also contains no earmarks and eliminates 42 government programs. Once the legislation has been passed by the Senate and signed by the president, the government will have saved nearly $31 billion in total discretionary spending compared to last year’s level and $95 billion compared to FY 2010 – the last year Democrats controlled Congress. Press Releases | Opinion Pieces | In the News | Committee Statements | eNewsletters | Photos Email | eNewsletter | Facebook | Twitter | Google + | Tumblr | Mac’s Blog | YouTube | Video Mailbox | Flickr
12.15.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, voted in support of the final annual defense policy bill that authorizes spending for military personnel, weapons systems, national security programs, and the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which passed with bipartisan support, also includes funding for Sheppard Air Force Base, the Pantex Plant, and the V-22/MV-22 Osprey program at Bell-Helicopter’s Military Aircraft Assembly Center in Amarillo. The overall amount authorized in the Fiscal Year 2012 bill is $19 billion less than Congress authorized for 2011. The bill authorizes $554 billion for the base Armed Services budget and $115.5 billion for overseas contingency operations, which generally refers to funding for efforts in Afghanistan and Iraq. The NDAA will also fund the Department of Energy’s National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) at $11.1 billion. “We were able to reduce funding levels in this defense bill while also maintaining our country’s commitment to a strong and innovative military that is capable of protecting our nation here at home and abroad,” said Thornberry, who served as a member of the joint House-Senate Conference Committee for the bill. “I am also encouraged to see that the bill recognizes the importance of maintaining defense programs in our part of Texas, even during this difficult budget environment.” Included in the bill is a 1.6 percent increase in military pay and a cap on future health care fee increases for military retirees to cost of living adjustments (COLAs). It also freezes $700 million in aid to Pakistan until the Pentagon provides a report detailing the strategy and effectiveness of such assistance. There are also provisions requiring the President to impose sanctions against foreign firms that have dealings with the Central Bank of Iran. Locally, the legislation requires the Secretary of Defense to submit a report on expanding the Euro-NATO Joint Jet Pilot Training Program (ENJJPT) at Shepherd Air Force Base. In Amarillo, the measure meets the Administration’s budget request for Pantex operations at $165 million and provides $67 million in funding for the completion of the High Explosive Pressing Facility at the Amarillo plant, which broke ground in August 2011. It also allocates $2.1 billion for procurement of the MV-22 Ospreys for the Marine Corps and $339 million for CV-22 Ospreys for the Air Force—both aircraft are produced at Amarillo’s Bell-Helicopter facility. The NDAA also reaffirms and clarifies current law regarding the military’s authority to detain certain individuals, pursuant to the Authorization of Use of Military Force, from al Qaeda, the Taliban, and associated forces who are in engaged in armed conflict with the United States. The language specifically exempts U.S. citizens and lawful resident aliens and does not extend any new authorities or change current law. Additionally, the legislation prohibits the transfer or release of Guantanamo detainees to or within the United States; prohibit the use of funds to house Guantanamo detainees in the United States; and, requires military custody for al Qaeda and associated terrorist who are captured plotting an attack on the United States, except when the President waives this requirement as not being in the national security interest of the United States. Thornberry explained the clarifications of policy, saying that “nothing here affects U.S. citizens. The language exempting citizens and lawful resident aliens is explicit and consistent with our values. I believe overall, the provisions in this bill are small steps towards having this Congress back in detention decisions. I think it is the right small step." The bill, which has passed both the House and the Senate, will now move to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Press Releases | Opinion Pieces | In the News | Committee Statements | eNewsletters | Photos Email | eNewsletter | Facebook | Twitter | Google + | Tumblr | Mac’s Blog | YouTube | Video Mailbox | Flickr
12.13.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) today voted to support the “Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act,” which passed the House with bipartisan support. The bill includes fully paid-for extensions of the payroll tax holiday and protects reimbursements to doctors under the Medicare program for two years. It also reforms the unemployment insurance program and forces action on the Keystone XL pipeline project in 60 days. The vote was 234 to 193. “This bill makes sense for several reasons, including that it keeps more money in the hands of workers and their families as our economy continues to struggle,” said Rep. Thornberry. “At the same time, spending cuts and reforms ensure that the Social Security Trust Fund is made whole,” he continued. The Act extends the current payroll tax rate of 4.2 percent for employees—set to expire at the end of this year—through 2012. It also includes offsets to prevent an increase in the nation’s deficit and to protect the Social Security program, which the payroll tax funds. These offsets include extending the current pay freeze for federal workers, including Members of Congress, and increasing employee contributions for federal pensions; limiting government benefits for millionaires and billionaires; and, targeting fraud and abuse by reforming entitlement programs. According to estimates, approximately 170 million Americans will benefit from this payroll tax cut extension. The average worker earning $50,000 per year will take home $1,000 more over the course of the year. The Middle Class Tax Relief & Job Creation Act also permanently reforms the unemployment insurance program and gradually reduces the maximum benefits from 99 weeks to 59 by mid-2012, reversing expansions signed into law by President Obama. The bill will require all unemployment recipients to search for work, be enrolled in GED programs if they have not finished high school, and participate in reemployment services. The law also allows the states to drug test recipients of unemployment benefits. “The House has focused on jobs and the economy this year, and part of this focus has been on making long-term changes to spending and federal programs. While we have not gotten everything we wanted as quickly as we wanted, we continue to move the reform discussions forward. This bill builds on that progress,” Thornberry commented. The legislation also protects Medicare by providing certainty for physicians and patients through a two year “doc fix.” The plan averts a 27.4 percent cut to physician payment rates, which ensures seniors have continued access to their doctors. Finally, the bill requires that the President make a decision on the Keystone XL pipeline project within 60 days of passage. The proposed pipeline will link oil supplies in Canada and North Dakota to refineries in the Midwestern and Southern United States. The House passed legislation earlier this year that would have forced the President to make a decision on the pipeline that has been tabled by the White House until after the 2012 elections. Thornberry, a strong supporter of the Keystone project, said, “The pipeline would create tens of thousands of jobs now, increase access to reliable domestic energy, and reduce our reliance on foreign oil producers. Elections and special-interest environmental politics should not get in the way of doing the right thing for our economy and national security.” The bill will now be sent to the Senate for consideration. If you would like to learn more about the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act, visit the "Tax Relief & Jobs" section of Congressman Thornberry’s website (www.thornberry.house.gov). Press Releases | Opinion Pieces | In the News | Committee Statements | eNewsletters | Photos Email | eNewsletter | Facebook | Twitter | Google + | Tumblr | Mac’s Blog | YouTube | Video Mailbox | Flickr
12.02.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry supported two bills this week to reform the regulatory process: the “Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act of 2011” (HR 527) and the “Regulatory Accountability Act of 2011” (HR 3010). “The House has passed over 10 bills this year aimed largely at reining-in agency rules already in the works,” said Thornberry. “HR 527 and HR 3010 get at the heart of the matter by overhauling the rulemaking process to force agencies of the Executive Branch to consider the cost of regulations on our businesses and our country.” HR 527 requires agencies to look at possible costs on small businesses before adopting a rule while giving businesses a chance to be involved in the drafting process. It also requires agencies to include "indirect" costs as well as direct costs and expands the ability of small businesses impacted by an agency's regulations to challenge those rules in court. HR 3010 requires agencies to give advance notice of proposed rules to increase public participation. As well as considering cost, it also forces agencies to look at alternatives and choose the lowest cost alternative that meets the requirements in law. It does permit costlier rules to protect public health and safety, but only if the agency can clearly justify why an alternative was not chosen. “Both of these bills will help bring commonsense to agency rulemaking. With unemployment still hovering close to 9 percent, the federal government cannot stand in the way and hinder the development of new jobs through costly regulations,” Thornberry stated. Press Releases | Opinion Pieces | In the News | Committee Statements | eNewsletters | Photos Email | eNewsletter | Facebook | Twitter | Google + | Tumblr | Mac’s Blog | YouTube | Video Mailbox | Flickr
11.30.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry, the leader of the House Cybersecurity Task Force and a senior member of the Intelligence Committee, made the following comments about the bipartisan "Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act of 2011," introduced by Rep. Mike Rogers (R-MI) and Rep. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD): "The Rogers/Ruppersberger bill is a very positive step forward in improving our cybersecurity. It focuses on one of the central issues identified by the House Cybersecurity Task Force, which is information sharing. It is far too difficult today for the government and private sector to all work together to protect us. This kind of cooperation should be a priority as Congress works on cyber legislation. "This bill is bipartisan, and in this environment, that fact is a credit to everyone involved. I hope we can find other areas of agreement on this growing issue." "As this bill moves through the process, I am sure that it will be refined and improved, and I commend the sponsors for this major advance in an area crucial to our country’s economic and national security." The House Cybersecurity Task Force, comprised of representatives from the nine committees with significant jurisdiction over cybersecurity, was created early in 2011 by Speaker John Boehner and Majority Leader Eric Cantor. The group of lawmakers was charged with drafting a framework for legislative action on cyber for this Congress. The Task Force delivered its recommendations to the Speaker and Majority Leader on October 3, 2011. The report has been well-received on Capitol Hill, as well as in other places in the public and private sectors. You can find the report here. Learn more about the House Cybersecurity Task Force Email | eNewsletter | Facebook | Twitter | Mac’s Blog | YouTube | Video Mailbox | Call or Write
11.21.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement after the Super Committee announced there will not be an agreement before the deadline on November 23, 2011: "I am disappointed that the 'Super Committee' was unable to agree on a deficit reduction plan. This is a lost opportunity to make the long-term, structural changes to federal spending that need to be made." "While an agreement was not reached this week, it is still possible for the Congress to adopt a plan by December 23. But, it will have to be done without expedited consideration of the bill in the Senate. If nothing passes, the automatic sequestration will become law, taking effect in January 2013." "This situation makes it clear that there are fundamental differences between the two party’s views on the role of government in our lives. The American people will have to resolve these differences at the next election." "In the meantime, I will do everything I can to see that America's national security is not decimated by the automatic cuts in January 2013, half of which will come from defense." "I believe that it is essential to keep working to make significant cuts in spending, to rein in government, and to reduce the deficit at every opportunity. We need to keep pushing to get our fiscal house in order. The country’s future and that of our children depends on it." Email | eNewsletter | Facebook | Twitter | Mac’s Blog | YouTube | Video Mailbox | Call or Write
11.18.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) today voted to support a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution (H.J.RES.2). Even though the vote was bipartisan, it did not get the two-thirds votes required to pass (H.J.RES.2). Only 25 Democrats joined the vast majority of Republicans to support the measure. “This amendment would have forced Washington to balance its checkbook, like most Americans do. It is common sense and is the sort of real reform needed to change the way government operates,” said Thornberry, a long-time supporter of the measure. Under the Budget Control Act of 2011, both Houses are required to vote on a balanced budget amendment by the end of this year. The House version would require that Congress does not spend more than is taken in unless three-fifths of both the House and Senate approve additional spending. Additionally, it makes provisions in the case of a serious national security emergency which might require a temporary spending increase. The amendment that did not pass today is nearly identical to the version that won passage of the House in 1995 and later failed the Senate by one vote in 1997. Friday’s vote was the most recent attempt to pass a constitutional amendment to balance the federal budget in nearly 15 years. “While this bill is not perfect, it represented a giant leap toward getting our fiscal house in order and getting our nation headed back in the right direction. We cannot keep kicking the can down the road. The time to take significant and enforceable steps toward fiscal responsibility is now,” Thornberry concluded. Currently, the vast majority of states, including Texas, currently abide by some form of a balanced budget requirement. Polls also indicate that a strong majority of Americans continue to support a balanced budget amendment. Email | eNewsletter | Facebook | Twitter | Mac’s Blog | YouTube | Video Mailbox | Call or Write
10.14.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry voted this week in support of two bills to block overly-aggressive regulations written by the Environmental Protection Agency. Both passed with bipartisan support in the House. “Like the other bills we’ve passed reining in excessive regulations, these bills are about jobs. The boiler rules were so costly and so burdensome that the EPA actually sought to delay them because the effect on jobs could be significant,” said Rep. Thornberry. “At a time when Washington should be doing everything it can to encourage job creation, these regulations could have the exact opposite effect and that is why Members on both sides are blocking them,” he continued. The “EPA Regulatory Relief Act” (H.R.2250), which passed by a vote of 275 to 142 on Thursday, extends compliance time for commercial and industrial boilers, and requires EPA to take another 15 months to "re-propose" four rules affecting boilers. Known as the BOILER MACT rules, the regulations affect boilers, process heaters, and incinerators located at thousands of manufacturing and industrial facilities, as well as universities and colleges, hospitals and medical centers, commercial facilities, hotels and apartment buildings, and municipal buildings and facilities. The EPA’s own estimates reveal that capital expenditures for businesses to implement the rules would total $5.8 billion and the costs for the rules collectively would be $2.3 billion annually. Other estimates show the costs to be even higher. The “Coal Residuals Reuse and Management Act” (H.R. 2273), which passed by a vote of 267 to 144, would ensure that coal ash requirements are no more stringent than existing criteria governing municipal solid waste landfills. To do so, the bill establishes a state-based regulatory framework for the disposal and management of coal ash. A Veritas economic report released in June 2011 found that designating coal ash as hazardous could cost up to $110 billion and an estimated between 184,000 to 316,000 jobs could be lost. “Responsible regulation is one thing, excessive, redundant, or unreasonable is another,” said Thornberry. Both votes are part of the House push to rein in or repeal job-killing regulations that businesses say are hurting job growth. A recent study by the Heritage Foundation found that an unprecedented 43 major regulations were imposed in fiscal year 2010 with a total economic cost of $26.5 billion, the highest total since at least 1981. In recent weeks, lawmakers have passed bills to delay and revamp air pollutant limits for cement kilns (H.R. 2681), as well as a measure known as the TRAIN Act (H.R. 2401) that would roll back EPA's Cross-State Air Pollution Rule and requires the federal government to evaluate the impact of certain EPA regulations on jobs, consumers, small businesses, state and local governments, and agriculture. In addition, a bill called the “Protecting Jobs from Government Interference Act,” which prohibits the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) from ordering a private employer to restore, shut down, or relocate business operations, was also approved. Please visit Mac's Facebook page, follow his office on Twitter, visit his website at www.thornberry.house.gov, or read his blog for the most up-to-date information.
10.13.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry will be visiting with constituents across the 13th district next week. "Jobs and the economy are people’s top concern right now, and they are interested in what Congress is doing about them. They want to know what is being done about government regulation and taxes, getting spending under control, and energy production here at home, among other things. These conversations are a great chance to discuss these issues and get feedback on what should be done about them,” said Rep. Thornberry. The "Conversations with Mac" will be held: Monday, October 17 Tulia 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. El Camino Dining Room 225 South Highway 87 Tuesday, October 18 Wheeler 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. Maxey's Steakhouse 7789 S. Highway 83 Tuesday, October 18 Perryton 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Allen Campus, Frank Phillips College 2314 South Jefferson
10.05.2011	The House Cybersecurity Task Force today unveiled its recommendations to help guide legislative action for the remainder of this Congress and beyond. The Task Force formally delivered its report to the Speaker and Majority Leader earlier this week. “Cybersecurity attacks are a direct threat to our economy and job creation, as well as our national security. The task force has addressed this critical issue in a thoughtful and substantive way, and I look forward to working with our committee chairmen and all our members to examine and act on these recommendations in the coming weeks and months. I particularly want to thank Rep. Thornberry and our members for all of their hard work in putting together this report,” said House Speaker John Boehner. Reflecting a growing concern about malicious cyber activity, House Speaker John Boehner and Majority Leader Eric Cantor formally created the Cybersecurity Task Force in June. They asked Rep. Mac Thornberry to lead the effort and appointed members from nine committees with significant jurisdiction on the issue, as well as three at-large members. They charged the group with making recommendations in four key areas: authorities, information sharing and public-private partnerships, critical infrastructure, and domestic legal frameworks. “These recommendations provide sound, concrete steps to help strengthen our cybersecurity now, while also highlighting issues that need more work,” said Rep. Thornberry, who chaired the Task Force. “Starting with incentives, information sharing, and updating some key laws can lead to real progress rather than more gridlock like we have seen with larger proposals,” he continued. The recommendations highlight the critical need for the improvement of existing information sharing structures and the development of an active defense capability. Taken together, such efforts would improve security and disseminate real-time information designed to help target and defeat malicious cyber activity. Also included in the framework is the adoption of voluntary incentives to encourage private companies to improve cybersecurity, such as the development of voluntary standards through a public-private partnership, utilizing existing tax credits and grant funding to promote increased security, and studying the possible role the insurance industry may play in strengthening cybersecurity. Suggestions for oversight and reporting requirements are also outlined. The group mentions several federal laws dealing with cybersecurity that need to be updated with an eye toward reform, including Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) of 2002, Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA) of 1986, as well as other communications laws and criminal statutes. Finally, the Task Force acknowledges that updating legal authorities is among the most complex issues facing lawmakers. It does recommend certain areas where Congress should begin action on updating these authorities, including the federal government defining a proactive process for Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA) and increased support from the Department of Defense to the broader federal government. The group also suggests that Congress should formalize the Department of Homeland Security’s current role in coordinating cybersecurity for federal civilian agencies’ computer and networks. The Task Force represents a broad cross-section of the House Republican Conference and the committees of jurisdiction on the issue of cybersecurity. In addition to Rep. Thornberry, Members serving in the group include Reps. Robert Aderholt (R-AL), Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), Mike Coffman (R-CO), Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Robert Hurt (R-VA), Bob Latta (R-OH), Dan Lungren (R-CA), Mike McCaul (R-TX), Tim Murphy (R-PA), Steve Stivers (R-OH), and Lee Terry (R-NE). Comments from Task Force Members: Rep. Robert Aderholt: “Cybersecurity poses some of the most serious economic and national security challenges our nation faces. Additionally, in today’s tight budget environment we must ensure every dollar spent equals security realized. I am proud of the work of the Cybersecurity Task Force and the fiscally responsible policy recommendations we have laid out today. I look forward to working with my colleagues on this vital national security issue going forward.” Rep. Jason Chaffetz: “America is under attack. As a nation we must do a better job of identifying, preventing, and proactively engaging those who would do us harm.” Rep. Mike Coffman: “Cybersecurity is a rapidly evolving challenge, and I am confident that our Task Force’s recommendations will put us on the right track in helping to protect our networks from attacks that could threaten both our national and economic security.” Rep. Bob Goodlatte: “I applaud the work of the Task Force and in particular Chairman Thornberry. I look forward to continuing our efforts in this important and vital area. These recommendations provide an excellent framework for the House to craft legislation relating to cybersecurity.” Rep. Robert Hurt: “I appreciate the opportunity to be a part of the Cybersecurity Task Force and to work with my colleagues on cybersecurity policy, and I want to thank Congressman Thornberry for his leadership on this very important issue. Cybersecurity affects nearly every aspect of our lives – our economy, financial sector, national security, and daily communications – and it is critical that we take the necessary steps to increase our cybersecurity protections across the country. Together, the Task Force has produced a unified set of recommendations that will help modernize our approach to cybersecurity to keep pace with the evolving threats, while remaining committed to the principles of a limited government, the protection of individual privacy and property rights, a commitment to safety and security, and a partnership with the private sector. As we all work together to implement solutions to address the growing threats of cyber attacks, it is my hope that both the House and the Senate will act on these recommendations.” Rep. Bob Latta: “The security of our Nation’s information networks is a critical matter of personal privacy and economic competitiveness. The recommendations of the Task Force will be used to educate Members of Congress, as well as constituents, about the gravity of this issue. If 85 percent of the threats to our information systems can be prevented with public knowledge and best practices, we can go a long way to reducing cyber attacks.” Rep. Dan Lungren: “The world of cyberthreats and cyberwarfare is upon us. We have to establish cybersecurity as a priority sooner rather than later. The consensus among experts is that 85% of current cyberthreats can be thwarted by current cyber hygiene. Public awareness is one of our first priorities.” Rep. Mike McCaul: “Admiral Mike Mullen has called cyber warfare one of the greatest threats to our national security. Today this task force is ready to move forward to address our most critical needs. Our recommendations echo many of those in the CSIS report we presented to the President when he took office including securing federal networks from theft and espionage, and protecting our critical infrastructure. I look forward to swift progress passing many of the ideas where we have agreement including my Cybersecurity Enhancement Act, which unanimously passed through committee and awaits a vote on the House floor.“ Rep. Tim Murphy: “The new frontier of national security is cybersecurity. The recommendations unveiled this week were developed out of the experiences and ideas of national security experts, private sector innovators, and our congressional colleagues with an understanding of the dangers that come with electronic vulnerability. Our framework centers on the premise that cybersecurity entails all aspects of our society, from government business to commercial transactions to our national infrastructure.” Rep. Steve Stivers: “The cyber threat is real and impacts all aspects of our lives, including our jobs, national security, and personal information. As a member of the House Cybersecurity Task Force, I believe the recommendations will ensure the federal government leads by example, protects critical infrastructure, and creates incentives for private sector companies to adopt cybersecurity protection standards. By strengthening a partnership with the private sector, the federal government can step up cybersecurity protections, and at the same time raise awareness for all Americans to do our part to protect ourselves and our way of life.” Rep. Lee Terry: “After months of work on the Cyber Task Force, one thing is very clear, and that is that our country is in need of sound policy that will protect us from 21st century attacks to our critical infrastructure. I am confident that the framework we are providing the Speaker will help to shape this needed policy as Committees begin their work in drafting legislative language.” *Read the full Cybersecurity Task Force recommendations.
09.23.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry voted today in support of the “Transparency in Regulatory Analysis of Impacts on the Nation Act of 2011 (TRAIN Act)” (H.R.2401). The bill, which passed by a vote of 249 to 169, requires the federal government to evaluate the impact of certain EPA regulations on jobs, consumers, small businesses, state and local governments, and agriculture. “The EPA has been hard at work cranking out regulations over the past two-plus years, all the while the economy and jobs continue to suffer. This bill says that trend is over because now they must evaluate the cost of any new regulation compared to any benefit,” said Rep. Thornberry. “Bureaucrats in Washington and the excessive red tape they create are part of our job problem in this country, and the House is doing its best to change that situation,” he continued. The bill, which is part of the House push to rein in or repeal job-killing regulations, would establish an interagency committee to estimate the overall economic impact of regulations developed in the name of “global warming.” It also specifically delays the final date for both the Utility Maximum Achievable Control Technology (Utility MACT) rule and the cross-state air pollution rule (CSAPR) until the full impact of a number of EPA regulations has been studied. In addition to affecting jobs, consumers are expected to see increased electricity costs as a result of some of these rules. In fact, the EPA has estimated that the Utility Maximum Achievable Control Technology (Utility MACT) rule will increase rates for consumers and drive up the cost of producing electricity in the U.S. by approximately $10.9 billion each year. In addition to passing a number of bills to remove excessive regulations earlier this year, House Republicans are planning weekly votes this fall in an effort to repeal, reduce, and rein in other federal regulations that they believe are hurting businesses and job growth. Last week the House passed the “Protecting Jobs from Government Interference Act,” which prohibits the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) from ordering a private employer to restore, shut down, or relocate business operations. Please follow Mac's Facebook page, visit his website at www.thornberry.house.gov, or read his blog for the most up-to-date information.
09.16.2011	U.S Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, today welcomed veterans with the Texas Panhandle Honor Flight to the U.S. Capitol. Thornberry led the guests on a tour of House floor, as well as the Capitol Rotunda and Statuary Hall. “We are able to stand on the floor on the U.S. House and do the people’s business because men and women like these veterans fought to defend our freedom to do so,” said Thornberry. “There will never be a way to truly repay them for their service the our country, but we can certainly honor and celebrate them whenever and wherever we can,” he continued. This group includes veterans who served in World War II and Korea. They are visiting Washington, D.C., through the Honor Flight Network (HFN), which brings veterans to the nation’s capital to visit memorials that honor their service to our country. Among the group is the Short brothers—Cecil, James, Johnny, Wendell, and Dexter—who all served in the military. They are the largest group of brothers to fly to Washington on an Honor Flight. The idea for an Honor Flight program can be traced to Earl Morse, a physician assistant and Retired Air Force Captain who wanted to honor the veterans he had taken care of during his career. In 2005, the program’s first year, HFN safely transported 137 veterans to see their memorials, at no cost to the veterans. In 2010, HFN safely transported 22,149 veterans. The Texas Panhandle Honor Flight plans on bringing another group of veterans to Washington from October 5-7, 2011. Visit Facebook to view more photos from the Honor Flight: http://www.facebook.com/#!/repmacthornberry
09.15.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry voted today in support of the “Protecting Jobs from Government Interference Act” (H.R. 2587). The bill, which passed by a vote of 238 to 186, is part of the House push to repeal job-killing regulations and prohibits the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) from ordering a private employer to restore, shut down, or relocate business operations. The “Protecting Jobs from Government Interference Act” is a response to a complaint filed against Boeing by the NLRB in April of this year. The NLRB accused Boeing of opening its second production line for the 787 Dreamliner aircraft in South Carolina—a right-to-work state—as a retaliatory move against union workers in Washington state. Since 2009, Boeing’s South Carolina facility has invested $1 billion in the local economy and created 1,000 new jobs, with potential for development of thousands more. “The NLRB’s complaint has the potential to create an even more hostile business environment across the country. It could prevent some businesses from relocating to or expanding in right-to-work states like South Carolina or Texas, or even cause others to shut down and lay off employees, “ said Thornberry. “ That is hardly the kind of jobs plan America needs as the economy continues to struggle,” he continued. The NLRB, an independent government agency, consists of five members appointed by the President and approved by the Senate. The Board interprets and enforces a depression-era law aimed at curbing unfair labor practices. “Using the government bureaucracy to push a political agenda is wrong. We have a constitution that limits the power of government for a reason, and circumventing the will of Congress with this kind of regulation is unacceptable,” he said. Thornberry’s comments follow Thursday’s announcement from the U.S. Labor Department that new jobless claims jumped to 428,000 for the week ending September 10th—11,000 more than the previous week. This is the highest level in three months. “This whole complaint is just another example of the kind of government over-reach and over-regulation that is causing uncertainty for small, medium, and large businesses alike, which has a negative impact on jobs and the economy. This is America, and businesses ought to be able to operate their businesses however and wherever they choose within the limits of the law,” Thornberry said. In addition to passing a number of bills to remove excessive regulations earlier this year, House Republicans are planning weekly votes this fall in an effort to repeal, reduce, and rein-in other federal regulations that they believe are hurting businesses and job growth. The “Protecting Jobs from Government Interference Act” is among the first to pass as part of this fall legislative agenda. Please follow Mac's Facebook page, visit his website at www.thornberry.house.gov, or read his blog for the most up-to-date information.
08.01.2011	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement after the House voted to prevent default and cut spending: "The bottom line is that this bill is one step in the right direction. I would rather take two, or three, or five steps, but I cannot reject a bill that cuts spending as much as it increases borrowing and that provides the opportunity for greater cuts as well as for real reforms in budgeting and spending. This includes requiring a vote on a balanced budget amendment. This bill cuts some spending, although not nearly as much as I would like. I am concerned about the way it treats national defense. It does not deal with mandatory spending, which is well over half the budget. Yet, while there is much about this bill with which I am not satisfied, I have absolutely no doubt that if this bill is rejected, the next one will be worse. It may come after Social Security checks are not received or after the markets plummet, but there would be another bill, and it will not have the cuts or reforms that are in this one. This vote is an opportunity to begin charting a very different course for our country. There is much more work ahead, and I will keep pushing for more steps in the direction of fiscal responsibility in the weeks and months to come." * * * * * * * * * * Congressman Thornberry also placed a statement in the Congressional Record in advance of tonight's vote to prevent default and cut spending that can be found on his website. Please follow Mac's Facebook page or visit his website at www.thornberry.house.gov for the most up-to-date information.
07.29.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement after the House passed a second plan to address the debt crisis: "Tonight, I voted for a bill that cuts spending more than any increase in the debt limit without raising taxes. It also requires both the House and Senate to pass a Balanced Budget Amendment and send it to the states for ratification before the debt limit can be raised again. And it sets up a process for even more spending cuts. This is the second bill that the House passed to prevent the government from defaulting on our debt. Still, this bill is not the bill I would have preferred. I believe the “Cut, Cap, and Balance” measure was a better approach, which passed the House with bipartisan support, but was defeated in the Senate on a party line vote. So now, the Senate once again has the chance to vote on a bill passed by the House. I hope Senator Reid allows for its consideration as soon as possible. People are frustrated at this situation, and I am as well. But, in the end, this debate is about the size and scope of government and its role in our lives. This is an opportunity to turn around the growth in government over the last few years and right the ship. The way to do that is by making serious and significant changes, and this debt debate still gives us that chance.” Please follow Mac's Facebook page or visit his website at www.thornberry.house.gov for the most up-to-date information.
07.19.2011	A plan supported by U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) to address the debt crisis passed the House this evening. The “Cut, Cap and Balance Act of 2011” (H.R. 2560) would immediately cut billions of dollars in 2012 spending and cap future spending as a percentage of the economy. The bill also requires that the debt ceiling would only be raised after a Balanced Budget Amendment is adopted by the House and Senate and sent to the states for ratification. House and Senate leaders have been meeting with President Obama for weeks to try and reach an agreement to increase the debt ceiling ahead of August, 2nd, the day that the ability to borrow by the federal government is set to expire. The limit was reached in May, but using what it calls “extraordinary measures,” the Administration can continue to pay the government’s bills until early August. “There has been a lot of talk about how to deal with the debt crisis, and today the House actually did something about it. The Cut, Cap, and Balance bill is a real plan that offers a framework for the debt limit talks and for the country,” said Rep. Thornberry. Two of the country’s credit rating agencies have expressed serious concern over the situation and have issued warnings of possible downgrades to the nation’s credit rating. Last week, credit firm Moody’s even indicated if budget cuts associated with a debt limit increase are not credible and lead to a balance in the ratio of debt to GDP, then the United States government will likely face a downgrade. “Raising the debt limit without a credible plan to make serious changes to spending and the budget could cost America jobs, strain the economy even further, and make our debt problem grow even worse. This bill is not the only answer to financial problems, but it is a real answer that will begin to get our financial house in order,” Thornberry said. A decrease in the government’s credit rating would raise interest rates. The government’s debt problem would grow worse because the country’s interest payments would increase. All other interest rates are based on the government’s ratings, so lowering the credit rating of the government affects all other interest rates as well. Higher interest rates for mortgages, car loans, student loans, and business loans would all affect the economy. A similar measure to the one that passed the House has been introduced in the Senate. S.1340, The Cut, Cap, and Balance Act, currently has 37 co-sponsors, including the Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, as well as Texas’s two Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison and John Cornyn. As of July 19, President Obama has not offered a specific plan. The Cut, Cap, and Balance Act (H.R. 2560): •Saves $111 billion in 2012 and around $5.8 trillion over ten years; •Provides enforceable caps on spending that will bring the size of government back below 20% of our Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to its average level over the last 30 years. Breaking the caps triggers automatic spending cuts. •The legislation grants President Obama’s request for an increase in the debt limit, but only after Congress passes a Balanced Budget Amendment and sends it to the states for ratification.
06.24.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Tex.), Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding the U.S. conflict in Libya: "Today I voted against authorizing our involvement in the military operations in Libya. I also voted to stop the use of U.S. funds for operations there, except for limited intelligence and support functions. It is not something I do lightly. I believe that it was a mistake to become involved in Libya, and I believe that the President should have sought the approval of Congress to engage our military before taking action. At this point, I acknowledge that there are no good alternatives, but there must be some balance restored to the constitutional process for taking military action." ###
06.24.2011	House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) and Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-VA) today announced the formation of a new Cybersecurity Task Force to be led by Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-TX). The group will be charged with examining the largest and most complex issues and making recommendations on cybersecurity authorities, information-sharing and public-private partnerships, critical infrastructure, and domestic legal frameworks, as well as evaluating the Administration’s proposal. The task force will report back to GOP leaders in October. “American jobs and national security depend upon our nation’s ability to innovate and dominate information technology fields,” said Speaker Boehner. “I’m pleased Congressman Thornberry will be heading up this important effort to evaluate what the House can do to help secure America’s technology infrastructures.” “The United States is and will continue to be the global leader in technology and innovation,” Leader Cantor said. “Strengthening our networks’ security is fundamental to protecting our national and financial security, promoting economic growth, and creating jobs. Representative Thornberry will be a strong leader of this important task force.” “We’re reminded daily about the risk to our economic and national security from cyber attacks,” said Rep. Thornberry. “Cybersecurity needs to be a priority, and this Task Force will lay the foundation to make it one in the House. I am eager to help lead such an important effort.” NOTE: The task force represents a broad cross-section of the House Republican Conference and the committees of jurisdiction on the issue of cyber security. In addition to Rep. Thornberry, Members serving in the group include Reps. Robert Aderholt (R-AL), Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), Mike Coffman (R-CO), Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Rob Hurt (R-VA), Bob Latta (R-OH), Dan Lungren (R-CA), Mike McCaul (R-TX), Tim Murphy (R-PA), Steve Stivers (R-OH), and Lee Terry (R-NE). ###
06.22.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding the President’s announcement on Afghanistan: "National security decisions should be based on the facts on the ground, not on the calendar. Arbitrary deadlines tell the enemy how long they must hold out and create doubts in those we are trying to persuade to join us. I’m also afraid that it increases the dangers to the troops that remain. The President’s announcement in December 2009 to send additional troops into Afghanistan was a good decision that made a real difference. There is no doubt that our troops have had great success. Twice in the last few weeks, I have walked in Afghan villages where I could never have walked this time a year ago. And while tonight’s decision could have been worse, I am still concerned that political considerations may be undercutting these efforts and our overall mission, which is to prevent the country from again becoming a sanctuary and training ground for terrorists to attack us." ###
06.12.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement regarding the death of Graham Purcell: "Graham Purcell was a larger than life figure who led a remarkable life of service. Whether it was as a soldier in World War II or a judge or a Congressman, he exemplified strength of character and love of country. Like many, I have been blessed to have known Graham as a friend and mentor and have Nancy and his family in our prayers." ###
06.03.2011	U.S. Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), who serves as the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, led a bipartisan group of lawmakers on a trip to Afghanistan over Memorial Day weekend. This is Thornberry’s second trip to the region in the last few months. “It is always helpful to talk to folks in the field and see them in action, and our Special Operations Forces are no exception. Their success in the bin Laden mission is clear and convincing. But, the work they are doing with the local Afghanis is remarkable as well, and the progress being made in undeniable,” said Thornberry, who leads the Armed Services subcommittee that oversees the Special Operations Command. While on the ground in Afghanistan, Thornberry’s group got a first-hand look at some of the efforts being undertaken by U.S. Special Operations Forces to help counter insurgents, train local police, and provide other support in area villages. In the Herat province in Western Afghanistan, they met with village elders and saw ongoing and completed U.S./Allied-funded projects including wheat fields, bridges, irrigation canals, retaining walls, and Afghan Local Police facilities. They also toured a recently-constructed school and spoke with some of its teachers. “It is also encouraging to hear from the Afghans directly about the steps they are taking to govern their villages, improve the lives of those that live there, and keep them safe. Witnessing these developments at the ground level gives you a real sense of optimism,” he continued. In addition to meeting with U.S. Special Operations Forces in the field, the lawmakers also met with senior military and diplomatic officials, including General David Petraeus, commander of the International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan, and Lieutenant General Karl Eikenberry, U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan. The Congressman finished his time in Afghanistan eating dinner with soldiers stationed there, including several from Texas. The Obama administration is in the early stages of deciding how many U.S. troops can be removed from Afghanistan as part of a partial drawdown that is scheduled to begin in July. The lawmakers’ journey began at NATO Supreme Headquarters in Belgium. There the delegation was briefed on ongoing operations in Afghanistan and Libya. The trip ended with a stop in Estonia, where the group met with state officials and toured the NATO Cooperative Cyber Defense Center of Excellence. Thornberry was tapped earlier this year by Speaker John Boehner to lead a major cyber security initiative in the House of Representatives. Visit Facebook to view more photos from Mac's visit to Afghanistan: http://www.facebook.com/#!/repmacthornberry
05.12.2011	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, today announced that the committee approved the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (H.R. 1540) by a vote of 60 to 1. The bill authorizes $690 billion in total spending for the Department of Defense and the national security programs of the Department of Energy, including funding for projects at Pantex and Bell Helicopter. “In April, I again visited with our Armed Forces on the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan. They continue to perform their duty remarkably well as evidenced by the great strides I witnessed in both places,” said Rep. Thornberry. “It is critical to our national security to keep this progress going. Even in a time of tight budgets this defense legislation provides significant support for our fighting forces, offers additional resources for other national security efforts, and helps us prepare to deal with national security threats that are still emerging – all in a fiscally responsible way,” he continued. Locally, the annual defense policy bill authorizes funding for programs at Bell Helicopter and Pantex. Bell Helicopter projects funded include a total of $3.008 billion for the V-22 Osprey program, $870.9 million for Huey (UH-1Y) and Cobra (AH-1Z) helicopters, and $307.6 for the Kiowa Warrior helicopter. These amounts include the purchase of new aircraft, upgrades and modifications to existing ones, and research and development. Bell Helicopter's Amarillo plant is the primary location for work conducted on the Osprey program. The facility also performs work on the Huey, Cobra, and Kiowa Warrior helicopters. The legislation also provides $649.4 million for Pantex for weapons assembly and disassembly, weapons evaluation, research and development, and other funding for staff and support. This represents a nearly 20 percent increase, or more than $110 million dollars, over last year’s budget request. "Pantex, Bell Helicopter Textron, and their workforces are a real credit to our area, to our country, and to our national defense. Their work and the resulting product have a great reputation, which is rightly deserved. This defense bill recognizes their importance to our security and provides funding to reflect it," said Thornberry. Overall, the legislation would authorize $553 billion for the Department of Defense’s base budget, $119 billion for operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, and $18 billion for the Department of Energy’s atomic energy defense programs. Additionally, the bill contains $10.5 billion for the U.S. Special Operations Command (SOCOM)—a 7 percent increase over last year’s funding level – which includes the forces that conducted the operation on Osama bin Laden. Included in the legislation is a 1.6 percent across-the-board pay raise for all members of the Armed Forces in 2012. It also would block, for a year, any increase in enrollment fees for participants in the TRICARE Prime health maintenance organization, part of the military’s health care network. The bill would also allow the Department of Defense to increase TRICARE fees for working age retirees by an average of $2.50 a month for individuals and $5 a month for families, which is the first increase in the program in 16 years. It does, however, cap the Department of Defense’s ability to increase fees beyond cost-of-living adjustments in the future. Thornberry said he was hopeful the House Leadership would bring H.R. 1540 to a vote by the full House before Memorial Day.
05.12.2011	Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, today announced that the committee approved the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (H.R. 1540) by a vote of 60 to 1. Overall, the legislation would authorize $553 billion for the Department of Defense’s base budget, $119 billion for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, and $18 billion for the Department of Energy’s atomic energy defense programs. This includes funding for Sheppard Air Force Base. “In April, I again visited with our Armed Forces on the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan. They continue to perform their duty remarkably well as evidenced by the great strides I witnessed in both places,” said Rep. Thornberry. “It is critical to our national security to keep this progress going. Even in a time of tight budgets, this defense legislation provides significant support for our fighting forces, offers additional resources for other national security efforts, and helps us prepare to deal with national security threats that are still emerging – all in a fiscally responsible way,” he continued. Included in the legislation is a 1.6 percent across-the-board pay raise for all members of the Armed Forces in 2012. It also would block, for a year, any increase in enrollment fees for participants in the TRICARE Prime health maintenance organization, part of the military’s health care network. The bill would allow the Department of Defense to increase TRICARE fees for working age retirees by an average of $2.50 a month for individuals and $5 a month for families, which is the first increase in the program in 16 years. It also would cap the Department of Defense’s ability to increase fees beyond cost-of-living adjustments in the future. "Sheppard Air Force Base continues to be recognized as one of America's premier military training facilities. So even as some defense spending is scaled back, the base, its workforce, and its mission remain critical and therefore will receive funding,” said Thornberry. Also included in the legislation is $10.5 billion for the U.S. Special Operations Command (SOCOM)—a 7 percent increase over last year’s funding level – which includes the forces that conducted the operation on Osama bin Laden. Thornberry said he was hopeful the House leadership would bring H.R. 1540 to a vote by the full House before Memorial Day.
05.04.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement in response to the Obama Administration's rejection of a Texas Wild Fire Declaration: “It is unimaginable to me that the President would deny this application when so many Texas counties have been affected by devastating fires. A few counties in our area have already been individually approved for federal fire assistance, but we’re not giving up. We are going to keep fighting to get people the help they need to recover and rebuild.”
05.02.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement after the President's announcement that United States forces have killed Osama bin Laden: "While the death of Osama bin Laden does not remove the threat of terrorism, it is an important milestone. The credit for this success belongs primarily to the intelligence professionals who have hunted for him for years, following up lead after lead patiently and persistently, as well as to the expert military professionals who carried out this mission after constant training and preparation and experience with these types of operations. President Obama should be credited with making the decision to proceed with the operation, as should CIA Director Panetta for its oversight. Our nation is still at risk, and more attacks on Americans and others will come. But the primary instigator of so much cruel violence has been removed." NOTE: Rep. Thornberry visited Pakistan in mid-April with Speaker Boehner and four other Members of the House. While in Pakistan, the delegation met with Prime Minister Yousaf Gillani, General Ashfaq Kayani, and U.S Ambassador Cameron Munter. The delegation also visited the 11th Corps headquarters in Peshawar to discuss the Pakistani military's security challenges as it engages in the fight against extremism and terrorism. # # #
04.15.2011	Below and to the right you can find a summary of the 2011 Spending Bill and the 2012 Budget Bill. 2011 Spending: Net spending reduction of $39.8 billion in discretionary spending from 2010 levels. $78.5 billion reduction from President Obama’s proposed budget Guaranteed up-or-down vote in Senate on defunding Planned Parenthood Obama Health Law: Guaranteed up-or-down vote in Senate on total repeal of all mandatory and discretionary spending outlined in the Obama health care bill Obama Health Law: Cuts “Consumer Operated and Oriented Plan” portion of health care bill by $2.2 billion (flagged by Heritage Foundation as a “back door to a public plan flying under a different flag.”) Obama Health Law: Requires GAO audit of all waivers granted to Obama Administration for health care bill (have been over 1,000 so far) Obama Health Law: Other GAO audits of portions of health care bill Obama Health Law: Repeals “Free Choice Voucher” provisions of Obama health care bill Obama Health Law: Cuts funding for the IRS to hire additional agents to enforce individual mandate of Obama health care bill No congressionally appropriated funds may be used for abortion in the District of Columbia No funds may be used for health care, auto, climate change and urban affairs czars Reduces Congress’s own budget by $103 million Defense funded at $5 million more than 2010 EPA budget cut 16% Removes a provision passed last year that denied Texas access to $830 million in emergency education funding Cost-benefit audit of new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and its effects on jobs 2012 Budget: The congressional budget establishes a blueprint for taxes and spending for the next fiscal year. Cuts $5.8 trillion in government spending over the next decade from current levelsBrings non-security discretionary spending to below 2008 levels Encourages tax reform and simplification with top tax rates for individuals and businesses at 25 percent Proposes reforms in the three largest entitlement programs – Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid for those under age 55 Makes no changes to Social Security and Medicare benefits for those who are 55 years old or older Converts the federal share of Medicaid and Food Stamps to a block grant program to give states the flexibility to implement the program according to the unique needs of its citizens
04.15.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry issued the following statement after the House passed a 2012 budget bill that establishes a blueprint for taxes and spending for the next fiscal year: “The budget passed by the House today is a drastic departure from spending-as-usual in Washington. It holds down taxes and reduces overall spending to a level that the economy – and the American workers – can sustain. At the same time, it provides a blueprint for reforming government programs in a way that not only saves money but also makes them more effective. This budget represents some tough, but necessary, choices for our country and its citizens. If we do not take significant action, we may be the first generation of Americans that fails to leave the country in better shape than we found it. On the other hand, if we do take action, the economy can begin to grow again, jobs will be created, and living standards will improve. This budget gives us that chance.” Highlights of House’s 2012 Budget: Cuts $5.8 trillion in government spending over the next decade from current levels Brings non-security discretionary spending to below 2008 levels Encourages tax reform and simplification with top tax rates for individuals and businesses at 25 percent Proposes reforms in the three largest entitlement programs – Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid for those under age 55 Makes no changes to Social Security and Medicare benefits for those who are 55 years old or older Converts the federal share of Medicaid and Food Stamps to a block grant program to give states the flexibility to implement the program according to the unique needs of its citizens
04.14.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement after the House passed a spending bill that funds the government through September and cuts about $38 billion from the rate of spending for the year: “Our debt and deficit problems were not created overnight and will not be solved easily or quickly. So while I am disappointed there are not more cuts in this bill, we can’t let the perfect be the enemy of the good. These cuts are just a first step. When the Senate passes this bill later today, we will finally have government spending moving in the right direction—and that is down. And then we can turn to the 2012 budget where we will have a greater opportunity to do much more.”
04.09.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement regarding the announcement of an agreement to keep the government open and pass a funding measure for the remainder of the fiscal year: "The agreement the House passed last night ensures our troops will be paid on time, that the government will stay open, and makes record cuts to federal spending. These things are a step in the right direction, but I am disappointed there weren't more spending cuts included. We cannot just kick the can down the road with business-as-usual. The government cannot continue to spend money that it does not have. We have to begin to bring some fiscal sanity to Washington. We have a good opportunity to do that when we start debating the 2012 budget next week. This gives us a chance to make deeper cuts and major, long-term reforms. I look forward to getting started on that."
04.07.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement after the House passed a short-term bill to fund the government for a week, fund the Department of Defense for the rest of the fiscal year, and cut an additional $12 billion in spending: “Getting our military paid and funding the Department of Defense for the remainder of the year must be a priority and that is why I voted for this short-term bill. It bothers me tremendously to think that some young 25-year-old is on the ground in Afghanistan or Iraq risking his life and his wife and kids are not going to get paid while he is out there doing it. This bill offers us the chance to take the military off the table while a long-term funding agreement is reached. I hope the Senate takes it up and passes it, that we can get a long-term agreement for the rest of this year, and that we can finally move on the work we are supposed to be doing already for fiscal year 2012. The House is scheduled to vote on the 2012 budget next week so we can stop spending money we don’t have and bring some fiscal sanity to Washington after several years without it.”
03.31.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, will hold the 13th district’s annual Service Academy Forums in Amarillo and Wichita Falls to provide information to interested students and their parents about attending the United States service academies. These forums are designed for potential nominees in their junior or senior year of high school. However, all local students, parents, and counselors are invited to attend the event. The Amarillo forum will take place on Saturday, April 9, from 9:30 to11:30 a.m. at the Amarillo Public Library’s Southwest Branch. The Wichita Falls forum will be held on Saturday, April 16, from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. at the Chase Bank Tower Conference Room. Representatives from West Point, the Naval Academy, and the Air Force Academy will give presentations and answer questions. Staff members from Rep. Thornberry’s office will also be available to explain the application process. “Our service academies offer young people the opportunity to obtain a first-rate education, serve their country, and gain valuable leadership skills for the future. Academy graduates represent our military’s next generation of leaders and that is why nominating young people to our service academies is such an important part of my job,” said Thornberry, who currently serves as the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. As a member of Congress, Rep. Thornberry is allowed to nominate a limited number of students for each service academy. Applications for nomination must be submitted to the Congressman’s office by December 1 of a student’s senior year. After reviewing Congressional nominations, final selections and offers of acceptance are made by the service academies. Nominees who are accepted by the academies receive a free education. In return, they agree to serve in the military for a minimum of five years after graduation. Amarillo Service Academy Forum Saturday, April 9, 2011 9:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. Amarillo Public Library – Southwest Branch 6801 Southwest 45th Avenue Amarillo, TX Wichita Falls Service Academy Forum Saturday, April 16, 2011 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Chase Bank Tower Conference Room 4245 Kemp Blvd, 5th Floor Wichita Falls, TX 76308
03.31.2011	A bill co-sponsored by U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) that relieves farmers, ranchers, and others of having to obtain duplicative and unnecessary permits for pesticide use passed the U.S. House of Representatives today. The Reducing Regulatory Burdens Act of 2011 (H.R. 872) amends the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) and Clean Water Act (CWA) to exempt pesticides used according to the label from the need for a duplicative CWA permit. “I am very concerned by the actions of the EPA and other regulators over the past few years to expand their authority by imposing all sorts of new regulations. And I think it is wrong to place extra and unnecessary burdens on our farmers and ranchers, among others. This bill deals with both issues,” said Rep. Thornberry. In 2006, the Environmental Protection Agency issued a rule exempting certain applications of pesticides from CWA permitting. However, in 2009, the 6th Circuit Court of Appeals overturned the EPA’s rule and directed the agency to develop such a permit by April 9, 2011 – greatly increasing the population of entities permitted under the CWA, as well as the obligations of state regulators. The court ruled Monday to grant a six-month extension until October 31, 2011, because the EPA said it could not meet the deadline for implementing the Clean Water Act permitting system by the original April deadline. Those affected by the 2009 court ruling include state agencies, city and county municipalities, parks and recreation managers, utility rights-of-way managers, railroads, roads and highway vegetation manager, mosquito control districts, water districts and managers of canals and other water conveyances, pesticide applicators, farmers, ranchers, forest managers, and scientists. “Even the EPA agreed an additional permit is not needed until a court decision prompted by environmentalist lawsuits forced the agency to reverse its rule,” added Thornberry. If this court-directed decision goes into effect, the EPA estimates the ruling will affect approximately 365,000 pesticide applicators nationwide that perform 5.6 million pesticide applications annually. Pesticide users are subject to a fine of up to $37,500 per day per violation. # # #
03.21.2011	U.S. Representative Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement on the situation in Libya: "All Americans should support our service men and women when called into action by the President. I believe that it is important, however, for the President to define their mission clearly, to explain the strategy he intends to use to accomplish that mission, to estimate the costs, and to state whether he is setting any kind of time limit on our involvement. I also believe that the President should seek the approval of Congress if our military involvement continues."
03.18.2011	U.S. Representatives Mac Thornberry (R-TX) and Russ Carnahan (D-MO) today announced introduction of the bipartisan Part D Off-Label Prescription Parity Act. The bill, H.R. 1055, would allow Medicare Part D carriers to cover the "off-label" use of drugs prescribed to people living with chronic diseases when its use is supported by experts. Currently, many Medicare consumers with serious and sometimes life-threatening conditions are unable to access safe and effective medications under Medicare Part D. Only Medicare Part B and Part D medications used to treat cancer, but not other medical conditions, are eligible for coverage. “Doctors and patients should be able to choose the safest and most effective medications for their treatments,” said Rep. Thornberry. “Right now, the requirements for coverage of the off-label use of a drug are burdensome and often result in Medicare patients not being able to get the drug coverage they need. Our bill helps fix that problem,” continued Thornberry. The bill would give Part D plans the same flexibility allowed under other parts of the Medicare program and in the commercial insurance market. “When we talk about setting aside our differences to solve problems, this is exactly what we mean,” said Rep. Carnahan. “This common-sense bipartisan legislation will get life-saving medicines to those who need them.” Off-label prescribing is widespread in the medical community as an essential means of providing patients with optimal medical care. Under Medicare Part B, CMS allows carriers to consider “the major drug compendia, authoritative medical literature and/or accepted standards of medical practice” in determining whether an off-label use is medically accepted. In 2008, through the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act (MIPPA), Congress required CMS to apply the Part B standard to Part D cancer drugs used off-label. “The Part D Off-Label Prescription Parity Act takes a balanced approach to keeping patients safe from improper prescribing while allowing access to the most up-to-date treatments available, “ said Joe Baker, President of the Medicare Rights Center. “Doctors routinely prescribe medications for uses other than those on the FDA label, according to their professional judgment and evidence in the medical literature. We are grateful Congressmen Thornberry and Carnahan have re-introduced this important bill,” he continued. The bill is also supported by the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, the Medicare Access for Patients-Rx (MAPRx), as well as: The AIDS Institute The ALS Association The Alzheimer’s Association American Academy of Neurology American Autoimmune Related Diseases Association American Society of Consultant Pharmacists Arthritis Foundation Center for Medicare Advocacy Easter Seals Hemophilia Federation of America The Lupus Foundation of America Men’s Health Network Mental Health America National Alliance on Mental Illness National Council for Community Behavioral Healthcare National Grange of the Order of Patrons of Husbandry National Health Council National Spinal Cord Injury Association National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD) RetireSafe United Spinal Association # # #
03.11.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) this week introduced a new version of his bill to promote domestic energy production. H.R. 1023, the “No More Excuses Energy Act of 2011,” encourages the production of all forms of domestic energy including oil and gas, nuclear, and alternative energy and fuels. “Rising gas prices like the ones we are seeing today are partly the result of bad policy decisions coming out of Washington, “said Rep. Thornberry. “Rather than more regulations and restrictions on energy production, we need a common-sense, comprehensive plan to reduce our dependence on foreign energy resources and increase production of all kinds of energy here at home. This bill does these things,” he continued. “If the President is serious about boosting domestic production, this bill provides the blueprint to do that and is ready to go,” Thornberry added. The national average for a gallon of regular unleaded gasoline stands at $3.54, up 40 cents from a month ago and nearly 80 cents from a year ago. Libya’s civil war and concerns over potential political unrest in other parts of the Middle East are contributing to the upward pressure on gas prices. Economists also have expressed concern that rising gas prices are fueling increases in other consumer goods, which could negatively impact the already lagging economy. “Businesses are already feeling the pinch and remain reluctant to hire employees. With rising gas prices, this uncertainty only grows and the economy will continue to suffer,” commented Thornberry. “A real, national energy plan will improve confidence and create a wealth of new jobs. So we really have no excuses not to make an all-of-the-above energy plan the law,” he finished. The “No More Excuses Energy Act of 2011” includes provisions that: • Encourage new refinery construction by allowing tax exempt bonds to be used for construction of certain refineries and making federal lands available for refinery construction. • Open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska to responsible drilling, potentially producing nearly a million barrels per day. • Remove the congressional moratorium on drilling for offshore oil and gas in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico. • Remove the effective Presidential moratorium on areas that were withdrawn from leasing. • Encourage production of onshore natural gas produced from wells more than 15,000 feet deep. • Encourage investment in a much-needed industrial base for building new nuclear power plants by reducing the tax burden on that industry. • Boost alternative energy development by extending the Wind Production Tax Credit (PTC) for 10 years. • Prevent the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from regulating greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act (CAA). • Repeal the minimum capture requirement for the CO2 sequestration credit in order to help smaller facilities qualify for the credit. This credit applies to permanent storage and CO2 used as a tertiary injectant for enhanced oil or natural gas recovery. • Make the excise tax on Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) and diesel comparable on an energy-equivalent basis and extend the Alternative Fuel Credit through 2012. This credit applies to liquefied petroleum gas, P Series Fuels, compressed or liquefied natural gas, any liquid derived from coal through the Fisher-Tropsch process, and compressed or liquefied gas derived from biomass. It does not include ethanol, methanol, or biodiesel. # # #
03.10.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry will be visiting with constituents over coffee March 23 through March 25. “People are interested in what Congress is going to do about jobs, energy production and gas prices, government spending, and many other issues. These coffees give me the chance to listen to what folks have to say, answer their questions, and share a little about what I am working on this year as well,” said Thornberry. The coffees will be held: Wednesday, March 23 Iowa Park 8:30 a.m. – 9:30 a.m. Economic Development/Chamber Office 102 North Wall Vernon 10:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. Wilbarger Auditorium Empire Room 2100 Yamparika Seymour 1:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m. Portwood Pavilion 800 E. Morris Holliday 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. Archer County Activity Center in Holliday 201 N. Walnut Thursday, March 24 Henrietta 9:30 a.m. – 10:30 a.m. Holman Conference Center 211 North Clay Burkburnett 2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. Burkburnett Community Center 735 Davey Friday, March 25 Nocona 9:30 a.m. – 10:30 a.m. Tales 'N' Trails Museum Benton Conference Room 1522 E. Highway 82
02.19.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement after voting in support of H.R. 1, which cuts discretionary spending by $100 billion in the next seven months compared to President Obama's FY 11 budget request: "This morning I voted for H.R. 1, a bill that returns non-security, discretionary spending to 2008 levels. It is a start. The government simply cannot continue to spend as it has and borrow 40 cents of every dollar to pay for it. Every dollar spent by government is either taken from a taxpayer who earned it or borrowed from future generations to repay with interest. The bill is a first step. There is still much work left to do." # # #
02.17.2011	This morning I appeared C-Span's Washington Journal program to discuss defense funding, national security issues, cyber security, and other topics. If you missed the program, you can watch the video and read the transcript. My appearance starts at 01:24:45. Click to watch here: http://www.c-spanvideo.org/program/SpendingandtheF
02.15.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry will be visiting with constituents over coffee February 23 through February 25. “People are interested in what Congress is going to do about jobs, health care, government spending, and many other issues. These coffees give me the chance to listen to what folks have to say, answer their questions, and share a little about what I am working on this year as well,” said Thornberry. The coffees will be held: Wednesday, February 23 Borger 4:00 – 5:00 p.m. Dake’s Restaurant 718 N Main Street Thursday, February 24 Canyon 9:30 – 10:30 a.m. Buffalo Room at the First United Bank Center 3301 4th Avenue Dumas 2:30 – 3:30 p.m. Amarillo College – Moore County Campus Lecture Hall – Room 148 1220 East 1st Street Friday, February 25 Pampa 9:00 – 10:00 a.m. M.K. Brown Room of the Pampa Chamber of Commerce 200 N Ballard Street
02.14.2011	Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement on President Obama’s proposed budget for Fiscal Year 2012: "Folks were pretty clear in November that they want the spending spree to stop. It remains one of the top issues I hear about from my constituents every day. Yet, the President’s budget once again follows the same failed approach he’s used since taking office: more spending, more taxes, and more borrowing. We simply cannot continue this level of spending. It piles up more debt for our children to pay, and it creates uncertainty for business that stunts job growth. In contrast, later this week the new House majority will vote to cut $100 billion in discretionary spending over the next seven months. And then we will offer a serious alternative to the President’s budget that cuts more spending, reduces and reforms government, and puts us back on the path to prosperity. We cannot correct all of the mistakes of the past at once, but we have to be serious about getting started." # # #
02.11.2011	U.S. Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-Tex.), the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee and Chairman of the Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, released the following statement in conjunction with the subcommittee’s hearing on the Department of Defense’s role in the nation’s cyber activities: “One of the first things that one notices is that the name of the subcommittee has changed this year to better match what our charge is. We are to look out into the future and help see that the United States is prepared to deal with those national security challenges that are still emerging—those that we are still learning about, such as terrorism and cyber warfare. share: f t U.S. Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-Tex.), the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee and Chairman of the Armed Services Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and Capabilities, released the following statement in conjunction with the subcommittee’s hearing on the Department of Defense’s role in the nation’s cyber activities: “One of the first things that one notices is that the name of the subcommittee has changed this year to better match what our charge is. We are to look out into the future and help see that the United States is prepared to deal with those national security challenges that are still emerging—those that we are still learning about, such as terrorism and cyber warfare. “We are also charged with nurturing emerging capabilities that can meet those and other threats. The jurisdiction has been clarified so that we can better focus on cyber and other issues. “Any emerging threat presents new challenges on policy, legal authority, budgeting, as we have witnessed, for example, since 9/11. Today, we want to start by asking a fairly basic but important question: What is role of the Department of Defense in defending the country in cyberspace? “If a formation of planes or hostile-acting ships came barreling toward a factory or refinery in the U.S., we know pretty well what we expect the military to do. They may try to identify who they are and what they intend. They may try to divert them or shoot them down, but the bottom line is that we expect our military to protect us from threats we cannot handle on our own. “But what do we expect—or should we expect—if a bunch of malicious, or potentially malicious, packets come barreling toward that same factory or facility in cyber space? And then the question will be whether the Department of Defense or the federal government is able and is authorized to do what we expect. “We do not expect definitive answers that everyone will agree with today, but we need to be serious and diligent about pursuing answers because the threat is serious—it is growing in numbers and in sophistication, and our vulnerability is growing because our dependence on cyber is growing in just about every aspect of our lives. “Yesterday, at an Intelligence Committee hearing I asked DNI Clapper, FBI Director Mueller, and CIA Director Panetta how serious a threat was posed to our country’s security in cyberspace. Each of them said it was very serious. In fact, Clapper testified that ‘The threat is increasing in scope and scale, and its impact is difficult to overstate.’ “Cyber is a new domain of vandalism, crime, espionage, and, yes, warfare, but we are not very well equipped to deal with any of those challenges. As we look for solutions, we want to be smart, careful and true to our values, but we need to act to improve our security.” ###
02.02.2011	Local officials have advised that travel is not recommended, so the 2pm Coffee with Mac in Burkburnett today is canceled. Wednesday, February 2 Burkburnett****CANCELED 2:00 pm- 3:00 pm Burkburnett Community Center 735 Davey Drive
02.02.2011	Local officials have advised that travel is not recommended, so Thursday's Coffee with Mac in Henrietta is canceled. February 3 ***CANCELED*** due to weather Henrietta 9:30 am- 10:30 am Holman Conference Center 211 North Clay
02.01.2011	Due to the winter storm headed to the area, the Seymour “Coffee with Mac” event scheduled for Wednesday at 9 a.m. is canceled. share: f t Due to the winter storm headed to the area, the Seymour “Coffee with Mac” event scheduled for Wednesday at 9 a.m. is canceled. While the Seymour event has been cancelled, at this time we plan to keep the coffees scheduled for Burkburnett and Henrietta on Wednesday and Thursday. For more information, please continue to check this website. Thank you.
01.31.2011	Due to the expected winter storm headed to the area, the Nocona “Coffee with Mac” event scheduled for Tuesday at 4pm is canceled. While the Nocona event has been cancelled, at this time we plan to keep the coffees scheduled for Seymour, Burkburnett, and Henrietta on Wednesday and Thursday. For more information, please continue to check this website. Thank you.
01.25.2011	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement after President Obama’s State of the Union speech: “President Obama gave a speech that is very different from last year. His recognition that businesses create jobs and economic growth is encouraging. I worry, however, that when he talks about ‘investments,’ it is just another way of saying ‘spending.’ We can do better than freezing federal spending at the current, inflated levels. I agree with the President about the need to create jobs and cut spending. Despite the massive spending over the last two years, we have historic unemployment and historic debt to go with it. The American people made it very clear in November that they want the spending to stop and the government’s role in everyday life to shrink. We must cut spending and government so we can restore the foundations for growth in the private sector. We must use this opportunity to make significant, lasting changes in government spending, and we must seize the opportunity to put the country on a more fiscally responsible path. As we cut spending, every program should be reviewed for efficiency and effectiveness. However, we must remember that national security is the top role of the federal government and our budget should reflect its priority. Everyday people and organizations are plotting and planning to attack Americans at home and abroad. It is a grim reality, but one the government has a responsibility to fully address. Big, important issues face our nation, and we owe it to the American people to be respectful and reasonable in how we debate the solutions to them. Already, we have made some important steps in this new Congress by voting to repeal the government takeover of health care, cutting the House’s own expenses, and rolling back spending to pre-bailout and pre-stimulus levels or less. However, there is still a lot of work to be done to get our country back on track and to restore the people’s trust in government. I look forward getting to work doing just that.”
01.21.2011	Washington, D.C.—U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry will be visiting with constituents over coffee throughout the 13th district February 1 through February 3. “People are interested in what Congress is going to do about jobs, health care, government spending, and many other issues. These coffees give me the chance to listen to what folks have to say, answer their questions, and share a little about what I am working on this year as well,” said Thornberry. The coffees will be held: February 1 ***CANCELED*** due to weather Nocona 4:00 pm-5:00 pm Tales ‘N’ Trails Museum Benton Conference Room 1522 E. Hwy 82 February 2 ***CANCELED*** due to weather Seymour 9:00 am- 10:00 am Portwood Pavilion 800 E. Morris Burkburnett ***CANCELED*** due to weather 2:00 pm- 3:00 pm Burkburnett Community Center 735 Davey Drive February 3 ***CANCELED*** due to weather Henrietta 9:30 am- 10:30 am Holman Conference Center 211 North Clay
01.19.2011	The U.S. House of Representatives tonight voted to repeal the new health care law, taking the initial step toward rolling back the massive overhaul. Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon), who sponsored the repeal bill, voted in favor of the measure, which is a straight repeal of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) and all health care and tax provisions in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010. “This law is bad for our businesses, for our patients and doctors, and for the country. It’s already negatively affected care and costs. People continue to want it repealed, and tonight, the House took the first major step toward meeting that expectation,” said Thornberry. The health care law is an issue that he hears about often, from both local businesses as well as concerned residents of the 13th District, Thornberry said. Recent polls indicate support for repeal of the bill remains strong. Large and small business groups across the country have been voicing support for the repeal, citing the bill’s impact on companies and the overall economy. In a letter delivered to the House Wednesday, a coalition representing the country's largest small business associations, including the Associated Builders and Contractors, the National Federation of Independent Business, the National Restaurant Association, the Printing Industries of America, National Association of Wholesaler-Distributors and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, warn that the health care law impedes hiring and growth. The letter outlines the groups’ support for repeal of the new health care law. Additionally, a recent study by the National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB), the nation’s largest small business association, found that an employer mandate alone could lead to the elimination of 1.6 million jobs between 2009 and 2014, with 66 percent of those coming from small businesses. The Speaker of the House John Boehner and the Republican majority have scheduled a vote for Thursday to instruct the committees to begin working on replacement reform bills. These alternative proposals contain a number of options, including creating lower health care premiums through increased competition and choice; providing access to affordable health care for people with pre-existing conditions; providing greater Medicaid flexibility for states; eliminating waste in the health care system; and banning federal funding for abortions. On Tuesday, Thornberry introduced two pieces of health care reform legislation aimed at increasing access to affordable health care coverage. The first, H.R. 315, the Health Care Paperwork Reduction and Fraud Prevention Act, standardizes and simplifies billing practices while protecting patient privacy. Studies show upwards of 21 to 31 percent of all the money spent on health care in the U.S. is spent on paperwork and regulations. The second bill, H.R. 314, the Medical Liability Procedural Reform Act, encourages states to establish health courts to decrease frivolous medical lawsuits and ensure access to the doctor of a patient’s choice. “My view is that we need reform. But Congress has a better chance of getting it right and of maintaining the trust of the American people if it takes reform in bite-sized chunks, starting with one or two reforms and building on them. These two bills represent solid first steps toward better care at lower costs to everyone,” Thornberry said.
01.08.2011	Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement in response to the attack on Representative Gabrielle Giffords (D-AZ) and members of her staff at a public event today in Arizona earlier today: "All of us are shocked and saddened by this senseless attack on Rep. Giffords, her staff, and others. Our prayers are with the Congresswoman, her family and staff, her community, and the country at this tragic time."
01.07.2011	Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) introduced his first bill of the new Congress on Wednesday. The ‘‘Death Tax Repeal Act” (H.R. 177) a proposal to permanently repeal the federal estate tax. He also co-sponsored the “Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act,” a bill to repeal the new health care law which is scheduled for a vote on January 12th, 2011. share: f t Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) introduced his first bill of the new Congress on Wednesday. The ‘‘Death Tax Repeal Act” (H.R. 177) a proposal to permanently repeal the federal estate tax. He also co-sponsored the “Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act,” a bill to repeal the new health care law which is scheduled for a vote on January 12th, 2011. “The economy needs to be Congress’ top priority and these two bills reflect that pro-growth, pro-jobs focus,” said Rep. Thornberry. “There is no better way to jumpstart growth than to remove barriers to hiring and keeping workers, which includes eliminating mandates and reducing a variety of taxes. These two bills do just that,” he continued. Research indicates that both laws have negative consequences for jobs and the economy. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the new health care law will have the net effect of reducing the labor supply by half a percent. A study by the National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB), the nation’s largest small business association, found that an employer mandate alone could lead to the elimination of 1.6 million jobs between 2009 and 2014, with 66 percent of those coming from small businesses. Conversely, other research shows that repealing the death tax could create 1.5 million new jobs. Job creation, the health care law, and the death tax rank among the issues he hears about most commonly, said Thornberry. The 13th Congressional District is home to a large number of family farms and ranches, as well as a wide variety of small businesses. Together, they account for a significant portion of the jobs, investment, and growth in the area, which stretches over 40,000 square miles. “Both the death tax and the new health care law undermine some of the most central tenants of American life, including freedom, family, and the pursuit of a better life for the future. Congress has a responsibility to change them, and these bills are simple ways to do it,” Thornberry said. At the end of 2010, Congress extended a number of tax cuts that were expiring, but only on a temporary basis. This compromise included a temporary death tax provision. “Families and businesses need certainty and stability to run their operations, and the best way to offer it is to repeal the death tax all together,” stated Thornberry. Thornberry was joined by 17 other Members of the House in introducing the death tax repeal bill. In one of its first major votes, the House is expected to vote on the health care repeal bill next week.
12.17.2010	“It is absolutely essential for the health of our economy and for working families that we stop any tax increase. The bill passed last night does that. Ninety-three percent of the bill extends current tax law or, in the case of the payroll tax cut, provides additional tax relief. The rest of it consists of one spending program-- a further extension of unemployment benefits. share: f t “It is absolutely essential for the health of our economy and for working families that we stop any tax increase. The bill passed last night does that. Ninety-three percent of the bill extends current tax law or, in the case of the payroll tax cut, provides additional tax relief. The rest of it consists of one spending program-- a further extension of unemployment benefits. Some people believe that it would have been better to reject this measure and pass another bill once the new Congress is convened in January. But, unless something is done before January 1, the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) will force 21 million American households to pay higher taxes on their 2010 income. That tax increase would be difficult to reverse. In addition, in the new Congress the House of Representatives plans to make significant cuts to federal spending. That means if the tax issue is not resolved as soon as possible, there is a real danger that President Obama would try to leverage the tax issue to prevent spending cuts. The tax issue needs to be settled and off of the table. And now it is.”
12.15.2010	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) was today nominated by Speaker-designate John Boehner to be the Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee in the 112th Congress. He will also serve as the Chairman of the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats, and Capabilities subcommittee. The House Republican Steering Committee will vote to confirm the choice this week. The Speaker-designate also asked Thornberry to lead an initiative on cybersecurity, which will focus Congress’s efforts to combat the growing national security and economic threat. Cybersecurity is an issue of increasing importance in the wake of a number of high-profile breeches of both public and private cyber networks. “I am honored to serve as Vice Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee in the 112th Congress and to lead cybersecurity initiatives in the House. I appreciate and welcome the added responsibility and new opportunities both positions bring,” said Thornberry. In making the announcement, Speaker-designate Boehner explained his decision, “Mac Thornberry is a real leader in our Conference on national security. His record on both the Armed Services and Intelligence Committees has shown him to be both an innovator and strategic thinker. I am backing him to be the next Vice Chairman of the Armed Services Committee, a role that will provide Mac with new responsibilities and opportunities to advance the security of our nation,” said Boehner. “I have also asked Mac to lead an initiative on cybersecurity that cuts across committee lines. I’m pleased he has agreed to play an expanded role on our team,” he continued. Thornberry will join Howard “Buck” McKeon (R-CA) in leading the Armed Services Committee. “Mac is a strong voice on defense issues, and his appointment as Vice Chairman of the committee will allow him to use his considerable talent to focus on some of the most challenging national security issues facing our country,” said McKeon. The Armed Services committee is responsible for general defense policy, ongoing military operations, the organization and reform of the Department of Defense and Department of Energy, counter-drug programs, acquisition and industrial base policy, technology transfer and export controls, joint interoperability, the Cooperative Threat Reduction program, Department of Energy nonproliferation programs, and detainee affairs and policy. “The Constitution makes it clear that defending our citizens and country is the first job of the federal government. I am honored to help lead national security policy efforts in the House. I look forward to getting to work in just a few weeks,” commented Thornberry. The 13th Congressional District is a long-time contributor to America’s national security. In addition to being home to thousands of men and women who volunteer to serve in the Armed Forces, the area is also home to many veterans. In addition, Sheppard Air Force Base, the Pantex Plant, and Bell Helicopter all play unique and important roles in the nation’s defense. # # #
09.30.2010	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry released the following statement after Congress voted last night to adjourn until after the November elections: "This Congress voted last night to go home and campaign, leaving the American people hanging. It is the height of irresponsibility. share: f t U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry released the following statement after Congress voted last night to adjourn until after the November elections: "This Congress voted last night to go home and campaign, leaving the American people hanging. It is the height of irresponsibility. "It is a Congress that did not even try to pass a budget for the first time in more than 35 years; it is a Congress that did not pass a single appropriations bill; and it is a Congress that has done nothing to stop a tax increase on every American who pays income taxes on January 1. "Thirty-nine Democrats joined every Republican in voting against adjournment, which passed by a single vote, 210 to 209. "This Congress has only added to the uncertainty and the instability in our economy. Our top priority should be jobs and the economy, and Congress should stay in session as long as it takes to prevent a tax increase on any American, including those small businesses that create most of the jobs." ###
09.29.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13), a senior Member of the House Intelligence and Armed Services Committees, tonight issued the following statement opposing the FY10 Intelligence Authorization Bill: “This bill has had an unfortunate history, caught up in controversies involving what Speaker Pelosi knew and when she knew it while also failing to address some essential issues that affect our fight against terrorism. Rather than rubber-stamping the Senate bill on the last day before the election break, we should take the concerns of the American people seriously about not bringing Guantanamo detainees to our shores, about not reading terrorists their rights until we have the information we need to stop the next attack, and about preventing detainees from returning to the battlefield. ‘Better- than-nothing’ is not a responsible approach to making laws in the United States. It appears to be a convenient one this close to the election”
09.23.2010	This morning I helped unveil the House Republicans' Pledge to America. This plan offers a set of specific solutions to create jobs, rein in spending, change the way Congress works, and keep America safe and secure. It is the product of several months of back-and-forth with the American people including town halls, telephone town halls, roundtable meetings, the AmericaSpeakingOut website, as well as phone calls, emails, and letters. You can read the full text here. I also encourage you read or watch the introduction to the Pledge. It provides a philopsohy of government that is especially powerful to me and I believe you will find it well-worth your time to review it. You can find a reading of it here. I encourage you to let me know what you think about the Pledge to America. It is a set of first steps we can take to get America on the right track immediately.
09.21.2010	A bill sponsored by U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) to expand access to State Veterans’ Homes to parents whose son or daughter died while serving in the Armed Forces passed the U.S. Senate late Monday. The bill unanimously passed the U.S. House on June 30, 2010. share: f t A bill sponsored by U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) to expand access to State Veterans’ Homes to parents whose son or daughter died while serving in the Armed Forces passed the U.S. Senate late Monday. The bill unanimously passed the U.S. House on June 30, 2010. “Adding a little common sense to a law is a good thing, and in this case, gives those we ask to fight and die in our wars assurance that their families will be cared for by their country. Losing a child in war is a life altering event, and I am pleased that this law will ensure parents of the fallen will be cared for, ” Congressman Thornberry said. Known as “Gold Star parents,” these men and women currently may receive care in veterans’ homes only if they have lost all of their children in service to the country. Today’s bill will change these federal regulations to allow admission to any parent who has lost at least one child serving in the military. The Senate version of the Gold Star Parents bill, S. 1450, was sponsored by Senators John Ensign (R-NV) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH). State Veterans’ Homes were created following the Civil War and still play a critical role in providing care for thousands of veterans and their dependents. Currently there are 137 State Veterans’ Homes in all 50 States and Puerto Rico that provide a multitude of health care services. State Veterans’ Homes are owned and operated by the state. The federal Veterans Administration (VA) subsidizes their operations by paying an annually-adjusted rate per day for each veteran in the home. Additionally, the financial impact to the federal government will be minimal, since the VA does not pay a per diem to state homes for Gold Star Parents. The bill was supported by the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Vietnam Veterans of America, and the National Association of State Veterans Homes. ###
09.14.2010	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry, along with members of the Texas Republican delegation today co-introduced legislation that repeals language in the education funding bill which could prevent Texas from receiving its fair share of federal education funding. H.R. 6108 calls to strike a paragraph, which was written by Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-Austin), that would require the state to make assurances that violate the Texas Constitution. share: f t U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry, along with members of the Texas Republican delegation today co-introduced legislation that repeals language in the education funding bill which could prevent Texas from receiving its fair share of federal education funding. H.R. 6108 calls to strike a paragraph, which was written by Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-Austin), that would require the state to make assurances that violate the Texas Constitution. Back in August, all 22 Republican members of the Texas delegation and Senators Cornyn and Hutchinson wrote a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi urging her to strike the Doggett language from the education funding bill. The language was not stripped, and Texas’ application for $830 million in federal education funding was denied by the U.S. Department of Education. Texas Republicans co-introducing the language include: Congressman Joe Barton Congressman Kevin Brady Congressman John Carter Congressman Michael Conaway Congressman John Culberson Congressman Louie Gohmert Congresswoman Kay Granger Congressman Ralph Hall Congressman Jeb Hensarling Congressman Michael McCaul Congressman Randy Neugebauer Congressman Pete Olson Congressman Ron Paul Congressman Ted Poe Congressman Pete Sessions Congressman Lamar Smith Congressman Mac Thornberry Senators Cornyn and Hutchinson introduced S. 3768, the Senate version to repeal Doggett’s language, on Monday, September 13, 2010
09.10.2010	After twenty months and more than a trillion dollars of “stimulus” spending since the President took office, the number one issue in the country remains jobs and the economy. All of the borrowed money and new programs pushed by the Obama Administration and the Democrats in Congress have not worked. Unemployment remains high, and growth is lackluster at best. Many fear that we could be headed toward a return to recession with a “double-dip.” share: f t After twenty months and more than a trillion dollars of “stimulus” spending since the President took office, the number one issue in the country remains jobs and the economy. All of the borrowed money and new programs pushed by the Obama Administration and the Democrats in Congress have not worked. Unemployment remains high, and growth is lackluster at best. Many fear that we could be headed toward a return to recession with a “double-dip.” I decided the best thing I could do to get the most realistic picture of how our part of Texas continues to be affected was to go straight to the source of job creation and economic growth – small business. I have always made a point to visit businesses in our area to learn about what they do and to listen to how Washington policies are affecting them. But given the difficult economic times we face, I visited more than a dozen businesses of various sizes and kinds at the end of August. (I also helped out in my own family’s small business which was shipping cattle that had been sold.) While there were obvious differences among the businesses, some comments and lessons stand out from those visits. “Washington just doesn’t get it.” That is something I heard repeatedly when I visited local businesses. And it’s no wonder. Across the board, business is afraid of what Washington will do to them next. Everyone is extremely cautious. They are reluctant to add employees or expand because of the uncertainty of the economic climate and of Washington’s heavy-handed actions. The fate of the 2001 tax cuts, the new financial regulatory law, the impact of the health care bill, and the new regulations coming out of the EPA, USDA, and other agencies are all causes for concern. Even those that are less directly affected by Washington policies are reducing debt, watching pennies, and trying to get in the best financial shape possible. “When government bails people out, someone still has to pay the bills.” That someone is America’s small businesses. The businesses were virtually unanimous in believing that it is wrong for government to pick winners and losers in any industry. The government bailouts of General Motors and Chrysler, for example, do not provide a level playing field for others. In addition, some stimulus funds are doing the same kind of thing, serving as a bonanza for some and a bust for others in various industries across the country. “If Washington wants to help the economy, the best thing it can do is get out of the way.” Several business owners are questioning whether they will be able to continue if things continue to deteriorate. And they are not just concerned about big government-oriented legislation. Right now, all sorts of federal agencies seem to be issuing new rules and regulations at lightning speed. Many of them make little sense. And the burden they are placing on all sorts of business is staggering. Finally, the new Obama health care law is a major concern – even for those with fewer than 50 employees. Already, annual premiums have gone up significantly for a number of businesses largely because of the new mandates. Employers are being forced to reduce benefits. When it comes to the bigger picture, they are worried that their competitiveness is suffering because health care costs continue to increase. This is exactly one of the things that the President and the Democratic majority claimed would not happen. While things are tough and people are worried, all hope is not lost. The strongest message that came through in each of the businesses was the tremendous pride that each of them took in their work. They love what they do every day and feel fortunate to be able to do it. They see serving their customers as a privilege, not an obligation. They still believe America is a place where you can build a business, take care of your employees and their families, and succeed. All they ask is for the government to listen to them and allow them to have the chance to do just that.
08.05.2010	Congressman Thornberry and KRLD's Scott Braddock discussed the Wikileaks incident and the impact this information disclosure will have on our national security, including U.S. efforts in Afghanistan. To listen to the interview, click here.
07.28.2010	Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement after the federal court ruling on the Arizona immigration law: "Today, we have seen the first of many court rulings on the Arizona law. I am sure that this ruling will be appealed. But rather than file lawsuits, the Administration should step up to the federal government’s responsibilities to control who and what comes across our borders. That is the essential first step toward solving our illegal immigration issues."
07.21.2010	House Republican Whip Eric Cantor (R-VA) today announced the winner of House Republicans’ YouCut program for this week. Congressman Mac Thornberry’s (TX-13) bill to cut federal subsidies for first-class sleeper car service on Amtrak was chosen by the American people to be the item cut from the federal budget in this week’s vote. The proposal could potentially save $1.2 billion in taxpayer dollars. “It makes no sense for taxpayers to underwrite an expensive service that very few people use, even more so when the economy is weak, spending is out of control, and our debt is staggering. That is a pretty poor investment for the money people are working so hard to send to Washington,” Congressman Thornberry said. Thornberry’s winning proposal eliminates taxpayer subsidies for rarely-used sleeper car service and requires Amtrak to provide any sleeper car service at its true cost – without taxpayer subsidies. According to the Congressional Budget Office, “only 16 percent of Amtrak’s long-distance passengers use sleeper service, at a subsidy that ranged in 2004 from $269 to $627 per passenger and exceeded subsidies for coach service by at least 50 percent and sometimes more than 100 percent per route.” Passengers in long-distance first-class travel are provided a sleeping room, turn-down service, complimentary entertainment, and food. Yet, Amtrak loses more than twice as much per passenger for first-class sleeper car service as compared to coach-class service on some routes. The Inspector General for the U.S. Department of Transportation estimated that eliminating the sleeper-class service could save Amtrak between $75 million to $158 million per year. "This week’s winner, a proposal developed by Congressman Mac Thornberry, should be an easy lift for this Congress,” said House Republican Whip Eric Cantor (R-VA). “Despite the fact that only 16 percent of Amtrak passengers choose “sleeper class” fare, which includes a turndown service and private entertainment, taxpayers are on the hook for more than twice as much for these passengers compared to coach passengers. During these increasingly tough economic times, do taxpayers really need to be paying for turn-down service and pre-paid movies? The proposal would eliminate these first-class subsidies and save taxpayers up to $1.2 billion over the next decade,” Cantor concluded. Congressman Thornberry’s proposed spending cut was voted as the favorite for the week by the American people through the You Cut website and was brought to the floor for a vote. YouCut – a first-of-its-kind project – is designed to help curb runaway spending. It allows people to vote, both online and on via cell phones, on spending cuts that you want to see the House enact. Once a week, there are five new items to be voted on at the You Cut website. The votes are then tallied and the winning proposal is offered for an up-or-down vote on the House floor. “In January, I met with a group of high school seniors in my district to talk about our country’s financial problems. At that time, each of them owed $39,000 as his or her share of the national debt. Since then, their share has risen nearly three thousand dollars to $42,739,” said Thornberry. “We cannot continue to mortgage away their future,” he continued.
07.15.2010	U.S. Representatives Mac Thornberry (TX-13) and Mary Jo Kilroy (OH-15) today announced introduction of the bipartisan Part D Off-Label Prescription Parity Act (H.R. 5732) to allow Medicare coverage of medications when use is supported by experts. Currently, many Medicare consumers with serious and sometimes life-threatening conditions are unable to access safe and effective medications under Medicare Part D. Only Medicare Part B and Part D medications used to treat cancer, but not other medical conditions, are eligible for coverage. “Every Medicare patient should receive up-to-date care whenever possible. This includes giving patients access to safe and effective medications, chosen by them and their doctors, that can help improve their lives. This bill updates Medicare’s prescription drug program to provide coverage for these kinds of treatments,” said Rep. Thornberry. The bill would give Part D plans the same flexibility allowed under other parts of the Medicare program and in the commercial insurance market. “Doctors and patients should be able to decide the best safe and effective medications for their treatments,” said Rep. Kilroy. “We must fight for the right to be treated with the best, safest medicine in consultation with our physicians, not a government bureaucrat.”Off-label prescribing is widespread in the medical community as an essential means of providing patients with optimal medical care. According to an article in The Archives of Internal Medicine, in 2001, the last year for which data is readily available, 21 percent of 725 million prescriptions written for the 500 most commonly used drugs were for off-label uses. Individuals are being denied medically necessary treatment that could vastly improve their quality of life, even if a doctor prescribes such medication according to his or her professional judgment and the use of the drug is supported by peer-reviewed medical literature. Under Medicare Part B, CMS allows carriers to consider “the major drug compendia, authoritative medical literature and/or accepted standards of medical practice” in determining whether an off-label use is medically accepted. In 2008, through the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act (MIPPA), Congress required CMS to apply the Part B standard to Part D cancer drugs used off-label. The bill has also been supported by the National Multiple Sclerosis Society and the Medicare Rights Center. # # #
07.14.2010	U.S. Congressmen Mac Thornberry (TX-13) and Adam Smith (D-WA), both members of the House Intelligence and Armed Services Committees, introduced “The Smith-Mundt Modernization Act of 2010” (H.R. 5729), a bipartisan bill to revise an outdated law that interferes with the United States’ diplomatic and military efforts. “It is time – passed time really – to update this law that ties the hands of our diplomats, military, and intelligence professionals. This bill removes legal hurdles and helps bring America’s public diplomacy and communications efforts into the information age,” Congressman Thornberry said. The law at issue is the Smith-Mundt Act of 1948, which was created during the early days of the Cold War to provide the State Department authority to counter Soviet propaganda in foreign media. The Act divides the global media market between “foreign audiences” and “domestic audiences” and prohibits the State Department from issuing any communication which could be heard or read by audiences here at home. “While the Smith-Mundt Act of 1948 was developed to counter communism during the Cold War, it is outdated for the wars of today,” said Congressman Adam Smith. “Effective strategic communication and public diplomacy should be front-and-center as we work to roll back al-Qaeda’s and other violent extremists’ influence among disaffected populations. An essential part of our efforts must be a coordinated, comprehensive, adequately resourced plan to counter their radical messages and undermine their recruitment abilities. To do this, Smith-Mundt must be updated to bolster our strategic communications and public diplomacy capacity on all fronts and mediums – especially online.” Recently, the law prohibited a Minneapolis-based radio station that provides programming for the Somali-American community from replaying a Voice of America-produced piece rebutting terrorist propaganda. Even after a dozen members of this community were recruited by al-Shabab, an al-Qaeda linked Somali militia, State Department lawyers refused the replay request, noting that Smith-Mundt tied their hands. Additionally, a June 2009 House Armed Services Committee report suggested that the law is also hindering ongoing military efforts, suggesting that “ the committee’s concern is that over the past sixty years, applicability of this law has affected the development of Department of Defense policy…The committee does not believe that Public Law 80–402 should constrain the Department of Defense and its partners’ strategic communication and messaging efforts abroad.” “There is solid evidence that this mid-20th century law constrains our ability to counter 21st century threats and to be as effective as possible when it comes to foreign policy. Congress has a responsibility to change that, and updating this law is a significant step in the right direction,” Congressman Thornberry explained. H.R. 5729 was introduced along with eight other sponsors, including Reps. Dan Boren (D-OK), Gabrielle Giffords (D-AZ), James Langevin (D-RI), Jeff Miller (R-FL), Ted Poe (R-TX), Dennis Rehberg (R-MT), and John Tanner (D-TN).
07.01.2010	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry issued the following statement after the House passed a massive financial regulation bill: "We do need to update our regulations of Wall Street and big banks, but I think this bill will increase the cost of credit for everybody—families, individuals, and businesses. It will also make things worse for community banks and small credit unions, which were not part of the problem in the first place. share: f t U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry issued the following statement after the House passed a massive financial regulation bill: "We do need to update our regulations of Wall Street and big banks, but I think this bill will increase the cost of credit for everybody—families, individuals, and businesses. It will also make things worse for community banks and small credit unions, which were not part of the problem in the first place. "Like many other pieces of misguided legislation forced through this Congress, this bill greatly expands the power and reach of the federal government, including the Federal Reserve, over private businesses. It creates new bureaucracies, limits consumer choice, and takes away access to credit. At the same time, it does nothing to reform Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac who have received nearly $145 billion in taxpayer bailouts. "Overall, this bill is going to make it harder for our economy to grow and create jobs, and that is what people want most of all. Its passage seems particularly ironic given reports today that new unemployment claims have risen yet again. The last thing Congress should do is pass another 2,300 page bill the effects of which nobody fully understands."
06.30.2010	A bill sponsored by U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) to expand access to State Veterans’ Homes to parents whose son or daughter died while serving in the Armed Forces passed the U.S. House of Representatives today. “Any time you can put a little common sense into a law, it is a good thing. This bill does that by getting rid of the federal red tape that prevents certain Gold Star parents from being admitted to State Veterans homes where there is available capacity to care for them ,” said Congressman Thornberry. Known as “Gold Star parents,” these men and women currently may receive care in veterans’ homes only if they have lost all of their children in service to the country. Thornberry’s bill would change these federal regulations to allow admission to any parent who has lost at least one child serving in the military. The Senate version of this bill, S. 1450, is sponsored by Senators John Ensign (R-NV) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH). “I am pleased to cosponsor this bill with Rep. Thornberry and I thank him for his leadership in addressing this situation. We all know that military service is not limited to an individual service member but extends to their family as well,” said Rep. Vic Snyder. “Any parent who has lost a son or daughter to service in our military has contributed to that ultimate sacrifice. I believe that through the care provided by this bill, we acknowledge the sacrifice of the parent and offer the gratitude of a grateful nation,” he continued. The bill is supported by the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Vietnam Veterans of America, and the National Association of State Veterans Homes. "We support this bill and are grateful to Congressman Thornberry for offering legislation that would extend the heartfelt gratitude of a grieving nation to the parents of a fallen hero,” said Dean Stoline, Deputy Director of The American Legion’s National Legislative Commission. State Veterans’ Homes were created following the Civil War and still play a critical role in providing care for thousands of veterans and their dependents. Currently there are 137 State Veterans’ Homes in all 50 States and Puerto Rico that provide a multitude of health care services. “The National Association of State Veterans Homes appreciates the efforts of Congressman Thornberry to correct the inequity created by the onerous definition requiring Gold Star Parents to have lost ‘all’ of their children to wartime service in order to be considered for admission to a state veterans’ home,” said Gary Bermeosolo, the Legislative Officer of the National Association of State Veterans Homes who also serves as the Administrator, Nevada State Veterans Home. State Veterans’ Homes are owned and operated by the state. The federal Veterans Administration (VA) subsidizes their operations by paying an annually-adjusted rate per day for each veteran in the home. The bill will be sent to the Senate where debate and passage could take place at any time.
06.28.2010	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry will hold "Conversation with Mac" town hall meetings in Amarillo on Tuesday, July 6, 2010 and Wichita Falls on Wednesday, July 7, 2010. “More Americans are engaged in the national debate today than any other time most of us can remember. People want to be heard and these conversations are another way they can share their concerns and ideas,” said Thornberry. All citizens of the 13th Congressional District are invited to attend. Tuesday, July 6, 2010 Amarillo 5:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. Civic Center Heritage Room B 401 S. Buchanan Wednesday, July 7, 2010 Wichita Falls 5:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. Midwestern State University Akin Auditorium 3410 Taft Blvd.
06.23.2010	Washington, D.C.— Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement after the announcement of new military leadership in Afghanistan: “We should all be grateful that General David Petraeus agreed to take command in Afghanistan. No one else could have stepped in with a minimum amount of disruption to our efforts there. Yet, it did not have to be this way. The President has every right to replace military commanders in whom he has lost trust. But trust is, at least in part, a choice. General McChrystal said some things he should not have said, and his staff engaged in immature banter – all in front of a reporter. It was poor judgment. There was never any indication of insubordination or of policy differences, however. Even the President admitted that. So it came down to personalities and political embarrassment. If every person in government who has made fun of Vice President Joe Biden is forced to resign, there will be few people left. The President argued that he did not make this decision “out of any sense of personal insult.” And yet it seems that he did. We know from the health care debate and other controversies that the President does not take criticism well. The issue should be who can best perform the essential mission in Afghanistan at this time. The mission is key for the security of our country and the safety of our citizens. General Petraeus was the only alternative who could avoid a severe setback to crucial operations about to take place. We should all wish him Godspeed.” ###
06.22.2010	Dear Friend, As you know, our country is facing some important challenges. Whether it is about jobs, health care, national security or even Social Security, I can do a better job of representing you in Congress if you let me know what you think and what matters to you. Soon, I’ll be in your area to have a conversation about the issues facing us. I hope you will join me. Sincerely, Tuesday, July 6, 2010 Amarillo 5:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. Civic Center Heritage Room B 401 S. Buchanan Wednesday, July 7, 2010 Wichita Falls 5:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. Midwestern State University Akin Auditorium 3410 Taft Blvd.
06.11.2010	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement on Congress’ failure to enact a budget: “A budget is one of the basic tools of making decisions. This year, for the first time since the modern Budget Act was passed in 1974, the House of Representatives will not pass – and will not even try to pass– a budget. It is a dereliction of duty. “Families, businesses, cities, schools all across the country try to make and live under a budget. For the Congress to fail to even attempt to bring spending and debt under control adds to the frustration that continues to grow. It puts Washington and politics ahead of our country’s future. It is irresponsible.” ###
06.02.2010	Dear Friend, As you know, our country is facing some important challenges. Whether it is about jobs, health care, national security or even Social Security, I can do a better job of representing you in Congress if you let me know what you think and what matters to you. Soon, I’ll be in your area to have a conversation about the issues facing us. I hope you will join me. Sincerely, Friday, June 4, 2010 Dumas 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Dumas Noon Lions Club Building 6th and Porter Saturday, June 5, 2010 Pampa 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. Greater Pampa Area Chamber of Commerce, M.K. Brown Room 200 North Ballard
05.28.2010	US Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement after the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) by a vote of 229 to 186. Congressman Thornberry voted ‘no’ on the final passage of the bill and expressed serious concerns about several amendments: share: f t US Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement after the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) by a vote of 229 to 186. Congressman Thornberry voted ‘no’ on the final passage of the bill and expressed serious concerns about several amendments: “ Despite some reservations, I voted for this bill in committee. But when it got to the floor, it became less about national security than about pushing a political agenda. Among the provisions of concern were an amendment that would give the General Accountability Office access to sensitive intelligence information and a provision that repeals the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy in our military while the Department of Defense is in the midst of a Department-wide review of policy. “Our focus should be to make sure our military servicemen and women and members of the intelligence community have all of the tools and equipment they need to do their job and keep us safe. Congress can and should do better.”
05.27.2010	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) testified before a House Veterans Affairs Subcommittee meeting today in support of H.R. 4505, a bi-partisan bill to expand access to State Veterans Homes to parents whose son or daughter died while serving in the Armed Forces. Thornberry is the chief sponsor of the legislation along with Rep. Vic Snyder (D-AR). share: f t U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) testified before a House Veterans Affairs Subcommittee meeting today in support of H.R. 4505, a bi-partisan bill to expand access to State Veterans Homes to parents whose son or daughter died while serving in the Armed Forces. Thornberry is the chief sponsor of the legislation along with Rep. Vic Snyder (D-AR). “America’s fallen should not be forgotten, and one of the best ways to honor these men and women is to provide their parents access to our state veterans’ homes when they need them,” Congressman Thornberry said. Known as “Gold Star parents,” these men and women currently may receive care in veterans’ homes only if they have lost all of their children in service to our country. Thornberry’s bill would change these federal regulations to allow admission to any parent who has lost at least one child serving in the military. The Senate version of this bill, S. 1450, is sponsored by Senators John Ensign (R-NV) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH). The Thornberry-Snyder bill currently has 21 co-sponsors and is supported by the American Legion and the National Association of State Veterans Homes. "We support this bill and are grateful to Congressman Thornberry for offering legislation that would extend the heartfelt gratitude of a grieving nation to the parents of a fallen hero,” said Dean Stoline, Deputy Director of The American Legion’s National Legislative Commission. State Veterans’ Homes were created following the Civil War and still play a critical role in providing care for thousands of veterans and their dependents. Currently there are 137 State Veterans Homes in all 50 States and Puerto Rico that provide a multitude of health care services. “The current federal guidelines are unwarranted and exhibit an exclusionary intent toward parents who have suffered irreparable loss of a child, or children, who served their nation in uniform. This bill corrects this issue by authorizing admission to State Veterans Homes of any parent whose child perished in active military service to the United States,” said Gary Bermeosolo, the Legislative Officer of the National Association of State Veterans Homes who also serves as the Administrator of the Nevada Office of Veterans Services. State Veterans Homes are owned and operated by the state. The federal Veterans Administration (VA) subsidizes their operations by paying an annually-adjusted rate per day for each veteran in the home. The federal government also provides money to pay for construction or renovations to the state homes. Over the last five years, the VA has awarded over $424 million in grants to the states for construction of or renovations to state veteran's homes, which is 34 percent of all grants awarded since 1964. “Those who lose their lives in service to America had devotion to our nation that knows no bounds, and our country’s commitment to caring and comforting their parents should reflect that,” Congressman Thornberry concluded.
05.25.2010	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry issued the following statement upon the introduction of America Speaking Out, an effort by House Republicans to engage the American people in the process of building a new policy agenda for America. Through America Speaking Out, the American people will be given a voice in setting the priorities for a national agenda. At town hall meetings, online at AmericaSpeakingOut.com, and through new communications tools, all Americans will have an opportunity to be a part of this effort. He said the following: share: f t U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry issued the following statement upon the introduction of America Speaking Out, an effort by House Republicans to engage the American people in the process of building a new policy agenda for America. Through America Speaking Out, the American people will be given a voice in setting the priorities for a national agenda. At town hall meetings, online at AmericaSpeakingOut.com, and through new communications tools, all Americans will have an opportunity to be a part of this effort. He said the following: "While Americans have been speaking out, Washington hasn't been listening. Americans are frustrated. They want lawmakers to focus on the essentials – jobs, economic growth, and protecting the country. Instead, this Democratic Congress has pushed a government takeover of health care, a failed stimulus package, and other misguided legislation like Cash for Caulkers. A group of House Republicans is advocating for a new way of doing business, where the priorities of the American people become the priorities of the people they hired to represent them. We want to offer a new set of policy solutions, but rather than just handing an agenda down from Washington, we want to include the American people in building it. To show that the voices of the America people can still make a difference in Washington, we are introducing America Speaking Out and giving citizens a new opportunity to lend their ideas for this new national policy agenda. This agenda will include positive solutions that transcend politics. It also will address some of our most pressing national challenges without hiding behind the Washington excuse that some problems -- like increasing our energy supplies or simplifying the tax code -- are just too big or too complicated to solve. We are looking for all Americans, regardless of party affiliation, to be a part of this unprecedented conversation. Throughout the summer we will be engaging the American people to ask for their ideas. We will do so with innovative web tools and mobile applications that will bring town hall meetings directly to anywhere Americans are discussing our nation’s challenges. Changing the course of our nation and the way Washington works will require the American people to continue to speak out and for Congress to start listening. Through America Speaking Out, the people will have a voice in Washington, as well as a group ready to act on their behalf." For more information on America Speaking Out, please click HERE; and to follow on Twitter, click HERE.
05.20.2010	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-TX), a senior Member of the House Armed Services Committee, voted to approve the committee’s national defense bill late last evening. H.R. 5136, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011, passed out of committee unanimously and is scheduled for a vote on the House floor next week. share: f t U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-TX), a senior Member of the House Armed Services Committee, voted to approve the committee’s national defense bill late last evening. H.R. 5136, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011, passed out of committee unanimously and is scheduled for a vote on the House floor next week. “Defending the country is the first job of the federal government and this bill plays an important role in making sure that our military has the tools it needs to do their job,” said Rep. Thornberry. The legislation authorizes $567 billion in budget authority for the Department of Defense (DoD) and the national security programs of the Department of Energy (DOE). The bill also authorizes $159 billion to support Iraq, Afghanistan, and other global counter-terrorism operations. It also authorizes $34 billion for Fiscal Year 2010 supplemental appropriations for operations in Afghanistan, Iraq, and to provide humanitarian and disaster assistance to assist victims following the earthquake in Haiti. Other measures included in the bill include a 1.9 percent pay raise for troops, a 0.5 percent increase over what was requested by the Obama Administration. The committee accepted a number of amendments offered by Rep. Thornberry to improve the overall bill, including the creation of an Air Force Scholarship to train airmen from Partnership for Peace ally nations as part of the Euro-NATO Joint Jet Pilot Training program (ENJJPT) at Sheppard Air Force Base in Wichita Falls. Another provision would require an ongoing, independent review of whether the money contained in the President’s Budget is adequate to fully fund the modernization of the Nuclear Weapons Complex at sites like Pantex located outside of Amarillo. Other Thornberry amendments promote competition and cost-savings in the purchase of military aircraft; a measure to ensure that recommendations that could change the structure and focus of our military are adequately reviewed and analyzed for possible defects; and, the development of a study to streamline geographical responsibilities for agencies and departments with international responsibilities to reduce bureaucracy and improve effectiveness. “While I do not agree with all of the bill’s provisions, it does a good job in most areas. When the committee agreed to a number of common-sense amendments, the bill was further improved,” Thornberry continued. The bill provides authority to purchase and upgrade military aircraft, a number of which will be assembled in Amarillo, including $2.8 billion for 30 Marine Corps MV-22s and 5 Air Force Special Operations Command CV-22s. The bill also contained nearly $1 billion for 31 UH-1Y and AH-1Z. In addition, the legislation includes $584 million for Pantex, approximately $51 million more than President requested in his budget.
05.20.2010	U.S. Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-TX), a senior member of the House Intelligence Committee, today issued the following statement after being notified of Director of National Intelligence Dennis Blair’s resignation: "Having Admiral Blair as Director of National Intelligence gave many of us greater confidence in the Obama national security team. I am concerned not only about the effects of his departure on our intelligence efforts but also about the possible differences with the White House that led him to feel that he had to resign." share: f t U.S. Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-TX), a senior member of the House Intelligence Committee, today issued the following statement after being notified of Director of National Intelligence Dennis Blair’s resignation: "Having Admiral Blair as Director of National Intelligence gave many of us greater confidence in the Obama national security team. I am concerned not only about the effects of his departure on our intelligence efforts but also about the possible differences with the White House that led him to feel that he had to resign."
05.10.2010	A lot of people have asked me what I think about the new Arizona immigration law. Here are a few of my thoughts: America is a nation of immigrants, and we also are a nation of laws. The bottom line is that the federal government has failed to do its job to enforce our laws and to secure our border. Any country must be able to control who and what comes across our borders. The safety of our nation depends on the federal government fulfilling this responsibility. Despite modest improvements in some areas, it has not met its obligations. With the level of criminal activity associated with drugs and human trafficking in Arizona, it is easy to understand that the people of Arizona and their representatives would choose to take action. I believe that it is up to the people of Arizona to decide what their state laws will be. But as I understand the new law, it makes something that is already a violation of federal law also a violation of state law. The revised law also limits the extent to which law enforcement may consider race, color, or national origin in determining the legal status of an individual. Of course, the way that the law is implemented will be very important in ensuring that it is consistent with federal law and the U.S. Constitution. The most important lesson for Washington is that the federal government must do its job to control our borders and to enforce the law. That is a goal I will continue to pursue.
05.03.2010	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-TX) made the following comments regarding his continued support for more domestic energy production following the Gulf Coast oil spill: This accident does not change the fact that the U.S. needs to produce more energy of all kinds here at home, including producing oil offshore. Once the spill is shut off, we do need to find out what happened. There are safety mechanisms that should keep this kind of thing from happening. We need to figure out what went wrong and incorporate those lessons to help prevent accidents in the future. I suspect that this accident may be used as an excuse to slow down or stop drilling by those people who never wanted to do it in the first place. Just as the West Virginia coal mine accident does not mean we stop producing coal, this incident does not mean we stop drilling and producing oil.
04.29.2010	Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX13) was presented with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce “Spirit of Enterprise” national award for his pro-business voting record during the first session of the 111th Congress. share: f t U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX13) was presented with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce “Spirit of Enterprise” national award for his pro-business voting record during the first session of the 111th Congress. “Small business and new business are the keys to economic growth and job creation. Right now, Washington is making it hard for small businesses to grow and for new businesses to get started because of anxiety over taxes, energy prices, and new regulations. I will continue to fight to reduce the burden on small businesses and new business through lower taxes and fewer government regulations,” Congressman Thornberry concluded. Eligibility for the “Spirit of Enterprise” award is based on how Members of Congress vote on key business issues. Those Members of Congress who support the Chamber’s position on at least 70 percent of those votes receive the award. The Chamber scored Congress on 7 Senate and 15 House votes in 2009, including the economic stimulus package, legislation to promote the U.S. as a travel destination abroad, and both the House and Senate healthcare reform bills. ###
04.29.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Republican Leader John Boehner (R-OH) today tapped Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-TX) to serve on the new National Security Solutions Group, which will take the lead in developing and advocating better policy solutions to the national security challenges the country faces. The group is part of the House GOP’s efforts to create a “governing agenda” to deal with America’s most pressing issues. share: f t House Republican Leader John Boehner (R-OH) today tapped Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-TX) to serve on the new National Security Solutions Group, which will take the lead in developing and advocating better policy solutions to the national security challenges the country faces. The group is part of the House GOP’s efforts to create a “governing agenda” to deal with America’s most pressing issues. “I believe that the first job of the federal government is to defend America so I am honored to join the National Security Solutions Group,” said Thornberry. “People tell me every day that we need realistic, common-sense policies to deal with a whole variety of issues, including current and future threats we face at home and abroad. With the help of the American people, this group will create the kinds of proposals to make America safer and more secure moving forward,” he continued. The National Security Solutions Group will complement and support the work of the Chief Deputy Whip Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) who is leading the effort by House Republicans to engage the American people and put forth a positive governing agenda. A number of other GOP Solutions Groups have been established over the past year on issues ranging from economic recovery to energy reform. “Addressing the national security challenges we face and protecting the American people are absolutely vital,” said Leader Boehner. “Rep. Thornberry has been a real leader in our efforts to offer solutions that keep America safe and support our troops in harm’s way. That’s why I asked him to join and why he will play a critical role in the group,” he said. NOTE: Members of the GOP National Security Solutions Group include: • Rep. Peter T. King (R-NY), Ranking Member, Committee on Homeland Security • Rep. Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-CA), Ranking Member, Committee on Armed Services • Rep. Peter Hoekstra (R-MI), Ranking Member, Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence • Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Ranking Member, Foreign Affairs Committee • Rep. Jerry Lewis (R-CA), Ranking Member, Appropriations Committee • Rep. Lamar Smith (R-TX), Ranking Member, Committee on the Judiciary • Rep. Michael Conaway (R-TX) • Rep. Charles Dent (R-PA) • Rep. Trent Franks (R-AZ) • Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-CA) • Rep. Candice Miller (R-MI) • Rep. Jeff Miller (R-FL) • Rep. Sue Myrick (R-NC) • Rep. Hal Rogers (R-KY) • Rep. Edward Royce (R-CA) • Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-TX) • Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA)
04.23.2010	Washington, D.C.-- U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement in response to an analysis by the Obama Administration's Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) showing that the government takeover of health care falls short of the President's pledge to decrease health care costs: share: f t U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement in response to an analysis by the Obama Administration's Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) showing that the government takeover of health care falls short of the President's pledge to decrease health care costs: "This report confirms my belief that a government takeover of health care will raise the costs for individuals and businesses while our economy is still struggling. “It also confirms that Medicare is going to take a big hit under the new law. The report estimates that 50 percent of seniors will lose their Medicare Advantage plans, and some of the cost-control gimmicks may not be sustainable over time. The new law also gives doctors the option to drop out of Medicare because of changes in reimbursement rates, making it harder for Medicare patients to find a doctor. “This idea that if we spend a trillion dollars we will lower health care costs makes no sense. Government running an industry always costs more because of the amount of red tape and bureaucracies that are involved in getting business done. We need to focus on common-sense reform that will lower costs and protect jobs and Medicare.” To read the report, please click here.
04.06.2010	U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry released the following statement related to the Obama Administration's unprecedented new restrictions placed on America's nuclear deterrent that were announced today: share: f t U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry released the following statement related to the Obama Administration's unprecedented new restrictions placed on America's nuclear deterrent that were announced today: "It is a mistake for the United States to say beforehand what it will not do--to take options off the table. Our nuclear deterrent has helped discourage chemical and biological attacks. I'm afraid that this new policy may embolden aggressors and make us more vulnerable. We should not give terrorists and potential adversaries less to worry about."
04.06.2010	Congressman Mac Thornberry will host Service Academy Forums in Amarillo and Wichita Falls to provide information to interested students and their parents about attending the United States service academies. The Amarillo forum will take place on Saturday, April 17, 2010, and the Wichita Falls forum will take place on Saturday, April 24, 2010. share: f t Congressman Mac Thornberry will host Service Academy Forums in Amarillo and Wichita Falls to provide information to interested students and their parents about attending the United States service academies. The Amarillo forum will take place on Saturday, April 17, 2010, and the Wichita Falls forum will take place on Saturday, April 24, 2010. Representatives from West Point, the Naval Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy will be present to answer questions. Staff members from Congressman Thornberry’s office will also be on-hand to explain the application process. The forum is designed for potential nominees in their junior or senior year of high school, but all students, parents, and counselors are invited to attend. The schedule for the forums is as follows: Saturday, April 17, 2010 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. Amarillo Public Library- Southwest Branch 6801 Southwest 45th Avenue Amarillo, Texas Saturday, April 24, 2010 10:00am to 11:30am Wells Fargo Building in Parker Square Silver Square Room- 2nd Floor 2301 Kell Boulevard Wichita Falls, Texas ###
03.22.2010	You are invited to upcoming Conversations with Mac share: f t Dear Friend, Whether it is about jobs, health care, national security or even Social Security, I can do a better job of representing you in Congress if you let me know what you think and what matters to you. Soon, I’ll be in your area to have a conversation about the issues facing us. I hope you will join me. I’ll appreciate having your input and look forward to seeing you there. Tuesday, April 6 Friday, April 9 ANSON VEGA 3:30 pm- 4:30pm 9:30am to 10:30am Women's Building Oldham County Court House Courtroom 801 23rd Street 105 Main Street HASKELL BORGER 5:00pm to 6:00pm 3:00pm to 4:00pm Haskell County Library Dake's Restaurant 300 North Ave. E. 718 North Main Street Wednesday, April 7 Saturday, April 10 HENRIETTA SILVERTON 9:00am to 10:00am 9:00am to 10:00am Holman Conference Center Silverton City Bank 211 N.Clay 500 Main St. BOWIE CROSBYTON 11:00am to 12:00pm 11:30am to 12:30pm Legend Bank Community Room Crosby County Library-Community Room 307 North Mason 114 W.Aspen MUENSTER SPUR 2:00pm to 3:00pm 1:30pm to 2:30pm Rohmer Restaurant Spur Community Ctr. 217 E. Division 502 Burlington Thursday, April 8 VERNON MATADOR 2:30pm to 3:30pm 3:30pm to 4:30pm Bara's Motley County Library Annex 529 US 287 E. 1105-1/2 Main
03.21.2010	Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement after voting ‘no’ on the government takeover of health care: “This is an unprecedented intrusion of government into the most personal areas of our lives. And it is unprecedented to pass a measure of this magnitude in the people's House against the strong, clear opinion of a majority of the American people. share: f t Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement after voting ‘no’ on the government takeover of health care: “This is an unprecedented intrusion of government into the most personal areas of our lives. And it is unprecedented to pass a measure of this magnitude in the people's House against the strong, clear opinion of a majority of the American people. “This bill will not only fail to stem the growing cost of health insurance; it will actually make it cost more. Common sense tells us that when the government spends more money, it does not usually cost taxpayers less. “The facts here are plain and simple: this bill includes massive government involvement in health care, higher taxes, and hundreds of billions in Medicare cuts. I know it, most people who serve in the House of Representatives know it, and the American people know it. It is wrong for our country and its future.” ###
03.11.2010	Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement after the House Republicans voted to ban all earmarks this year: share: f t Washington, D.C.— Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement after the House Republicans voted to ban all earmarks this year: “House Republicans did the right thing today in voting to ban all earmarks this year. Washington spending is out of control, the budget process is broken, and our national debt is sky high. We need to stop business-as-usual in Washington and make fundamental reforms. Banning earmarks is a serious step in the right direction.” # # #
02.22.2010	Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s health care proposal: “We should look for agreement on ways to drive down health care costs and make health insurance available to more Americans. But the President’s proposal is a lot like the House and Senate bills which so many people don’t like and don’t trust. It includes massive government involvement, higher taxes, and Medicare cuts. It seems more about politics than actual policy.” share: f t Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s health care proposal: “We should look for agreement on ways to drive down health care costs and make health insurance available to more Americans. But the President’s proposal is a lot like the House and Senate bills which so many people don’t like and don’t trust. It includes massive government involvement, higher taxes, and Medicare cuts. It seems more about politics than actual policy.” “Putting new wrapping on the old, discredited approach is not going to advance the ball very much. We need to start over with a clean sheet of paper and narrow the focus to just two or three items like lowering costs and reforming pre-existing conditions. That’s what Thursday’s meeting at the White House ought to be about.” ###
02.04.2010	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) issued the following statement after the federal debt limit was raised to record $14.3 trillion, which is roughly the size of the U.S. economy: share: f t Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) issued the following statement after the federal debt limit was raised to record $14.3 trillion, which is roughly the size of the U.S. economy: “Ten days ago I met with seniors at Randall High School about our country’s financial problems. At that point, each of them owed $39,000 as his or her share of the national debt. With the vote today each of these students now owes $46,319. We cannot wait until 2011 to take action on the out-of-control spending and the increasing debt burden we are passing along to our children. We must act now.”
02.01.2010	Washington, DC— Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement on President Obama’s proposed $3.8 trillion budget for fiscal year 2011: “Doubling the debt while increasing spending and taxes to record levels is not what I call responsible budgeting, especially during a recession with 10-percent unemployment. That’s exactly what the President’s budget does. My approach would be the opposite—cut spending, lower taxes, limit government, and let people make their own decisions rather than Washington doing it for them. share: f t Washington, DC— Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement on President Obama’s proposed $3.8 trillion budget for fiscal year 2011: “Doubling the debt while increasing spending and taxes to record levels is not what I call responsible budgeting, especially during a recession with 10-percent unemployment. That’s exactly what the President’s budget does. My approach would be the opposite—cut spending, lower taxes, limit government, and let people make their own decisions rather than Washington doing it for them. “In his State of the Union address, the President talked about reducing the deficit, but his budget will only send it higher. If it passes, non-defense discretionary spending will have increased 84 percent in the last two years. We should start attacking the deficit right now, not wait until the proposed “spending freeze” takes effect in 2011. “A good starting point would be to reject more ineffective government stimulus spending like the $100 billion contained in this budget. Businesses create jobs, not government, and we must look for ways to encourage private job growth to get this economy back on track. Another cost-saving, common-sense suggestion is to leave Guantanamo Bay open for both national security and economic reasons. President Obama proposes spending $500 million to buy a prison in Illinois and move the prisoners there. He can save taxpayers half a billion right off the bat just by leaving Guantanamo Bay open. “I also disagree with the tax increases in the budget because sending more money from working families, individuals, and small businesses to Washington isn’t a realistic way to grow the economy either. For example, the President’s budget has a global warming tax that is even higher than the one he proposed last year and will increase energy costs for all Americans. “The government has important responsibilities, but one of the most critical is to live within its means. This budget does not meet that responsibility. Hopefully in the next few months we can work with the President to balance the country’s real needs with the amount we can realistically spend to meet them.”
01.27.2010	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) issued the following statement after the President's State of the Union address share: f t Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) issued the following statement after the President's State of the Union address: "I agree with the President that these are challenging times for America. What I do not agree with is this idea that more government, less choices, and increased taxes are the answers. This approach is not only wrong-headed, it’s not working and the American people know it. They registered their concern during the election in Massachusetts just last week. I’m afraid the President is not listening. In his speech he indicated that he intends to move full-steam ahead with a massive health care bill, cap-and-trade, getting rid of private student loans, and another expensive stimulus bill. I agree that jobs and economic growth should be the top priority, but none of these big-government proposals and more federal spending will accomplish his goals. In addition, if reducing the deficit is so important there is no reason to wait until 2011 to freeze spending. We need to stop spending now and look for ways to actually cut it. I also think the President missed a real opportunity to address the continued terrorist threat we face. National security was almost an afterthought in his remarks. How can we be on the offensive against terrorism when it is not a major focus for the Administration? In the end what people want is not a speech, they just want things to get better. I hope that we take the first step toward improving the economy and keeping America safe by coming together with the President and Democratic leadership to pass common-sense, bi-partisan laws this year. To do that, all sides need to be heard and that means the real work starts tomorrow.
01.26.2010	Washington, D.C.— Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today introduced a bi-partisan bill to expand access to State Veterans Homes (SVHs) to parents whose children died in service to the U.S. Armed Forces. Known as “Gold Star parents,” these men and women currently may receive care in veterans’ homes only if they have lost all of their children in service to our country. The legislation, H.R. 4505, is co-sponsored by Rep. Vic Snyder (D-AR). share: f t Washington, D.C.— Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today introduced a bi-partisan bill to expand access to State Veterans Homes (SVHs) to parents whose children died in service to the U.S. Armed Forces. Known as “Gold Star parents,” these men and women currently may receive care in veterans’ homes only if they have lost all of their children in service to our country. The legislation, H.R. 4505, is co-sponsored by Rep. Vic Snyder (D-AR). “America’s fallen should never be forgotten, and one of the best ways to honor each and every one of these men and women is to provide their parents access to our state veterans’ homes when they need them,” Congressman Thornberry said. Current federal rules state that Gold Star parents are eligible for admission to State Veterans Homes only if they have lost all of their active-duty children. Thornberry’s bill would change these regulations to allow admission to any parent who has lost at least one child serving in the military. The Senate version of this bill, sponsored by Senators John Ensign (R-NV) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH), will be reviewed by the Senate Veterans Affairs committee this week. "All too often in a time of war we remember the young who have died, but forget the needs of the parents of those who made the ultimate sacrifice and now live with an emptiness we cannot fill. It is fitting that we find a way to care for these parents when they are alone or in need," said Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), the top Republican on the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee. State Veterans Homes were created following the Civil War and still play a critical role in providing care for thousands of veterans and their dependents. Currently there are 137 State Veterans Homes in all 50 States and in Puerto Rico that provide a multitude of health care services. Texas established its first home for its Civil War veterans in Austin in 1887. While the Austin facility is no longer in operation, the Legislature has authorized construction of eight veterans’ homes through the Texas Veterans Land Board. These include locations in Temple, Floresville, Big Spring, Bonham, as well as others in McAllen and El Paso. The seventh facility in Amarillo opened in May 2007. An eighth home is set to open in Tyler, Texas, sometime in the summer of 2011. “I believe that it is only fair that the parents who lost a son or daughter in military service have access to these first class facilities. This legislation is strongly supported by the National Association of State Veterans Homes of which each of our seven Texas Veterans Homes is a member,” Jerry Patterson, Commissioner of the Texas General Land Office said. State Veterans Homes are owned and operated by the state. The federal Veterans Administration subsidizes their operations by paying an annually-adjusted rate per day for each veteran in the home. The federal government also provides money to pay for construction or renovations to the state homes. Over the last five years, VA has awarded over $424 million in grants to the States for construction of or renovations to state veteran's homes, which is 34 percent of all grants awarded since 1964. “Those who lose their lives in service to America had devotion to our nation that knows no bounds, and our country’s commitment to caring and comforting their parents should reflect that,” Congressman Thornberry concluded.
12.16.2009	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today released the following statement after the House of Representatives took what could be its last votes of 2009, including bills to fund defense, a second stimulus, and to raise the debt ceiling share: f t Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today released the following statement after the House of Representatives took what could be its last votes of 2009, including bills to fund defense, a second stimulus, and to raise the debt ceiling: “The year 2009 is one in which federal spending and debt increased dramatically, government got bigger, and people’s confidence in government dwindled. It has been a long and disappointing year. And today was no exception as the majority rushed through a number of bills in their haste to get out of town. While I voted to fund our troops and their missions in Afghanistan and Iraq, I voted against raising the debt ceiling and another stimulus bill. This second stimulus --a near carbon copy of the first $800 billion dollar one-- pours billions more into the very same projects and programs included in the original. In some cases, very little of the money from the first stimulus has even been spent. In other cases, where the money has been spent, it has failed to create jobs or has been wasted. In the 13th district alone, nearly 5,000 people have lost jobs since the bill took effect back in February. Doubling down on the same failed economic programs not only multiplies the amount Washington is spending and borrowing, it will do nothing to create jobs or get the economy moving. And, it is certainly no way to govern our country. Washington is giving new meaning to the saying insanity is doing the same thing over and over and expecting a different result. Americans deserve better. Let’s hope the new year brings some common sense back to Washington so we can get the country on the right track.”
12.11.2009	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement after the House voted to pass H.R. 4173, a 1,200-plus page bill that will give the government more control and fundamentally remake the U.S. economy share: f t Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement after the House voted to pass H.R. 4173, a 1,200-plus page bill that will give the government more control and fundamentally remake the U.S. economy: “This 1200-plus page bill continues the “Washington-knows-best approach” to anything and everything. It would be breathtaking if we were not already breathless from the global warming, health care, and massive spending bills. It follows the same path of unprecedented and unimaginable government control over the economy and our lives. “I believe that we should update our financial regulatory structure to reflect changes in our economy and to create jobs by ending the bailouts, reforming the Federal Reserve, protecting consumers without limiting access to credit, and strengthening anti-fraud enforcement. Instead, this bill creates a permanent bailout fund, invents a “Credit Czar,” and expands the powers of the Federal Reserve, which will do nothing to fix the economy or create jobs. “Government needs to remove itself from bailing out private businesses, running industry, and its heavy-handed reach into our lives. Only then will the incentive to work, to build, and to innovate return and our economy will rise again,” Congressman Thornberry concluded. For more information on why I voted against this bill, please click here.
12.10.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today introduced a bill to clarify and strengthen requirements for intelligence information sharing between the White House and Congress. The bill, H.R. 4261, would amend the National Security Act of 1947 to provide clear standards and procedures for Congress to receive intelligence information. share: f t Washington, D.C. — U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today introduced a bill to clarify and strengthen requirements for intelligence information sharing between the White House and Congress. The bill, H.R. 4261, would amend the National Security Act of 1947 to provide clear standards and procedures for Congress to receive intelligence information. “Too often, information is a political tug-of-war between Congress and the President, which makes it harder to protect the country,” Congressman Thornberry said. “There should be a clear standard that allows Congress and the White House to perform their constitutional duties without having vital national security programs or intelligence information being used as a political football,” he continued. Thornberry’s bill, H.R. 4261, strengthens the requirement to provide Congress with intelligence, including information regarding covert operations. It also outlines a clear standard that all intelligence information shall be shared with the full House and Senate intelligence committees. “There are people plotting and planning attacks against America as we speak. Since September, there have been six known cases, and thankfully, we were able to stop five of them. The sixth resulted in the shootings at Fort Hood,” said Thornberry. “The Administration has not given Congress all of the information that it has one the Fort Hood case. How can we take the necessary steps to thwart similar attacks in the future if Congress isn’t given the opportunity to review the pieces of the puzzle?,” he continued. Thornberry’s bill does recognize that there may be instances in which restricted information sharing is appropriate and necessary by providing the President an option to brief a smaller group as long reasons for limitations are provided. However, the Chair and Ranking Member of the Intelligence Committees have the authority to review such a request. In response, they can agree to limit distribution of the information, or they can decide to provide the information to the full committee despite the President’s request. Thus, the President’s constitutional authority to classify information is protected, as is Congress’s authority to set its own rules. “This bill helps empower Congress to limit itself, rather than allowing the President to limit Congress. This improvement will allow the intelligence committees to focus as much attention as possible on existing and emerging threats of terrorism and other issues so we can assess how effective our intelligence efforts really are,” said Thornberry. H.R. 4261 will be referred to the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. To read the bill text, please click here.
12.02.2009	Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) made the following statement on President Obama’s speech on the situation in Afghanistan share: f t Washington, D.C.— U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) made the following statement on President Obama’s speech on the situation in Afghanistan: “President Obama did a good job of reminding us of 9/11 and of the reasons why Afghanistan remains important to the safety and security of America and our allies. My concern, however, is that many questions remain. For instance, if Afghanistan is as important as the President said, why would he put a deadline on our involvement there? Then there is the question as to why he did not fully support the requests of our commander in Afghanistan, General McChrystal. There seems to be a mismatch between what President Obama has said about the importance of Afghanistan and what he has decided to do. “Putting a timeline on our involvement could well encourage the enemy and discourage potential friends and allies from working with us. If so, it will increase the dangers that our troops face. “Now more than ever, it important that no one doubts our resolve and determination to succeed in this mission. Doubts only increase the danger to our troops and make it more difficult for them to gain the cooperation they need. If you are going to send troops to do a mission, then you back up those troops and what the commander requested 100 percent. I look forward to asking some of these questions when Secretary of Defense Gates and General McChrystal testify before the House Armed Service Committee in the next few days.”
11.20.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-TX 13) today sent a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius concerning the recent recommendations on mammography screenings made by the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF). share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-TX 13) today sent a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius concerning the recent recommendations on mammography screenings made by the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF). “These are very important decisions that should be made by a woman and her doctor. This is a step backward in the fight against breast cancer, and a step toward more government control of your health care. Screening and early detection are the most important tools we currently have in fighting this terrible disease and this decision will potentially interfere with these important screenings,” Congressman Thornberry said. The House recently passed H.R. 3962, the Pelosi Health Care Bill, which would empower the U.S. Preventative Services Task Force to also issue similar recommendations that would require health plans to cover certain services. Under the Pelosi Bill, the Task Force will be able to place restrictions on the scope and duration of those mandated benefits. If this bill were to become law, recommendations such as the recent guidance on mammography screenings could limit coverage of this important and life-saving test. “With the recent passage of the Pelosi Health Care Bill, I am concerned that this is just the beginning of these types of government panels setting coverage guidelines that will impact every American. Health care decisions should be made by patients and doctors, not by government task forces. This is a prime example of what our health care system will be like in the near future should the Pelosi bill become law,” Congressman Thornberry concluded. Click here to read the letter that Congressman Thornberry sent to Secretary Sebelius.
11.17.2009	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mac Thornberry (R-TX), a senior Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the House Armed Services Committees, today called on Speaker Pelosi to immediately direct Congress to open an investigation into the tragic shootings at Fort Hood*. He also made the following statement about his concerns raised by the Fort Hood shootings, the Obama Administration’s handling of the attack, and subsequent investigation: “During the last three months, there have been arrests in five domestic terrorism cases—cases where tragedy was averted. There was one case where tragedy was not averted—at Fort Hood. share: f t Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mac Thornberry (R-TX), a senior Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the House Armed Services Committees, today called on Speaker Pelosi to immediately direct Congress to open an investigation into the tragic shootings at Fort Hood*. He also made the following statement about his concerns raised by the Fort Hood shootings, the Obama Administration’s handling of the attack, and subsequent investigation: “During the last three months, there have been arrests in five domestic terrorism cases—cases where tragedy was averted. There was one case where tragedy was not averted—at Fort Hood. Congress as an independent branch of government has a separate duty to investigate that case fully to see how it happened and what changes need to be made to ensure that it is not repeated. This matter is not just about the prosecution of one individual. It is just as much about protecting other Americans from being killed. All of the facts need to come out. The families and the wounded deserve to know how this happened. And all Americans need to be confident their government is taking the right steps to protect us and prevent these tragedies in the future.” *A copy of the letter to the Speaker from Mac Thornberry and Intelligence Committee Republicans can found HERE.
11.07.2009	Washington, DC - U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) voted against the government takeover of health care and released the following statement after House Democrats passed their plan despite bipartisan opposition share: f t Washington, DC - U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) voted against the government takeover of health care and released the following statement after House Democrats passed their plan despite bipartisan opposition: "This year, we have seen an incredible growth of government, and the American people are paying the price. Speaker Pelosi’s health care bill is the latest, and one of the biggest, examples. I voted against it. The people of the 13th district of Texas have been quite clear. The overwhelming majority of them want no part of this 2,000 page, trillion dollar bill that adds 111 new commissions, agencies, and programs. The Pelosi bill combines more government control and high taxes with fewer choices and wraps the whole package in a lot of red tape. It is bad for Texas, and it is bad for America. Most of us agree that improvements are needed in our health care system. Too many of us have a hard time getting insurance, and premiums have been going up faster than wages. We should focus on those two problems – and we can – without upending the whole system. Among other problems, the Pelosi bill: 1. Kills jobs with higher taxes and mountains of regulations on business. At a time when unemployment is the highest in 25 years, Congress should be making it easier to hire new workers and less expensive to provide them with health insurance. This bill does just the opposite, making it more expensive to hire and to insure workers. 2. Cuts over $400 billion out of Medicare. Congress should be taking steps to strengthen and improve Medicare for future generations. Instead, H.R. 3962 squeezes money out of programs that are already in financial trouble. Our seniors will end up with fewer choices and more money coming out of their pockets. 3. Increases the cost of insurance for the 85% of Americans who have it now. With more mandates and restrictions, the bill will increase the cost of insurance for those who have it. Amendments to reduce premium costs, like the one I submitted, were rejected. 4. Does not include verification measures to ensure that only U.S. citizens and legal residents qualify for benefits. Although the bill has now passed the House, the fight is not over. As attention turns to the Senate, this bill must be resisted every step of the way. I will continue to advance common sense health care reform proposals that will help Americans find affordable coverage without saddling our children and grandchildren with billions of dollars of debt."
10.29.2009	Washington, D.C.—Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) released the following statement after House Democrats unveiled their latest health care bill share: f t Washington, D.C.—Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) released the following statement after House Democrats unveiled their latest health care bill: “Reforming and improving health care is a good thing to do—cutting Medicare, raising taxes, and creating a government-run health care program are not the way to do it. That’s exactly what this massive health bill released today does. “The government’s recent track record in implementing programs doesn’t give me a lot of faith in its ability to deliver quality, affordable health care. Cash for clunkers, the economic stimulus package, and the H1N1 vaccine distribution program are examples of how expensive and inefficient programs can become when the government is in charge of them. “Unfortunately, the bill introduced today is not the product of bipartisan work. This bill was created by the Democratic leadership behind closed doors with no input except for those in the room, even from members of their own party. There were viable, bipartisan health care reform alternatives that have not seen the light of day. This is a disappointing day for our democratic system. “The good news is the fight for common-sense health care reform is not yet over. The American people are engaged, they know what’s at stake. Let’s hope their elected representatives are listening.” To read Congressman Thornberry's analysis of the Democrat health care plan, please click here.
10.21.2009	Many people, including myself, have become increasing concerned about the growing number of H1N1 cases in the 13th district and the limited amount of vaccines available to citizens in our area. share: f t Many people, including myself, have become increasing concerned about the growing number of H1N1 cases in the 13th district and the limited amount of vaccines available to citizens in our area. I have contacted Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius to express my concern about how slowly the federal government has been distributing the vaccines. To read the letter I sent the Secretary, please click here.
10.20.2009	Washington, D.C.--- William “Mac” Thornberry, a senior member of the U.S. House Armed Services Committee, today welcomed news that the two leading contenders to be the President of Afghanistan have accepted a runoff election. Current Afghan President Hamid Karzai and former Foreign Minister Abdullah Abdullah will face each other in the November 7 runoff. share: f t Washington, D.C.--- William “Mac” Thornberry, a senior member of the U.S. House Armed Services Committee, today welcomed news that the two leading contenders to be the President of Afghanistan have accepted a runoff election. Current Afghan President Hamid Karzai and former Foreign Minister Abdullah Abdullah will face each other in the November 7 runoff. He offered the following statement: "The fact that Hamid Karzai and Abdullah Abdullah have agreed to a runoff signals the rule of law is taking root in Afghanistan. It also indicates a growing commitment to the country’s constitution and to democracy. Advancements in the fledging Afghan democracy, however, should not delay the decision to defend America, and neither should politics. Every moment of indecision and delay increases doubt among our allies, our adversaries, and even our troops. The President has been given a strategy to move forward in Afghanistan to accomplish the goals he set. Now it’s time for the Commander-in-Chief to implement it.”
10.02.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. –The health care task force appointed by the House Republican leadership has unveiled a comprehensive package of reform measures to expand access to affordable health care, root out waste and fraud, enhance transparency and prevention, and preserve the doctor-patient relationship. Included in the package are two bills that Congressman Thornberry authored to reform the liability system and to standardize and simplify billing practices. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. –The health care task force appointed by the House Republican leadership has unveiled a comprehensive package of reform measures to expand access to affordable health care, root out waste and fraud, enhance transparency and prevention, and preserve the doctor-patient relationship. Included in the package are two bills that Congressman Thornberry authored to reform the liability system and to standardize and simplify billing practices. “Billions of dollars are being spent each year on defensive medicine, paperwork, and billing practices which drive up costs for providers and patients alike. If we can work to eliminate frivolous lawsuits and extra paperwork, we will see a safer and more efficient medical system,” Congressman Thornberry said. The Republican task force, dubbed the “House Republican Health Care Solutions Group,” has been working for months on a plan, incorporating input from constituents, doctors, patients, and others. The result is a health care reform plan that the solutions group hopes will receive bipartisan support. “Mac is a real leader in the health care reform discussion,” said Congressman Roy Blunt, chairman of the task force. “His innovation on medical liability reform and waste, fraud, and abuse prevention will have a significant impact on our goal of access to affordable health care for all Americans,” Congressman Blunt concluded. The reform package includes 21 different bills to lower costs, promote prevention, protect existing coverage, and improve access to quality care. “Republicans agree that there are changes that need to be made in our health care system to make it more affordable and responsive to people’s needs. If we are going to address overall health care reform, however, we should start by preserving what works in the existing system,” said Thornberry. “Once we are confident people can keep what they have, then we should implement some common sense solutions to problem areas like the liability and billing processes as we do in our reform package. That’s how we change health care for the better in the long term for all Americans,” he concluded. The Thornberry bills included in the health care reform package are: H.R. 2787, The Medical Liability Procedural Reform Act H.R. 2787 will authorize the Attorney General to give grants to states that establish health care tribunals that provide alternatives to current tort litigation. The data collected in these projects will be used to improve patient care and decrease medical errors. With $60 to $108 billion being spent on defensive medicine every year, clearly change is needed. These tribunals will not only provide a more fair and predictable liability process for doctors, they will encourage the sharing of best practices among medical professionals in all states, leading to a safer, and more uniform medical system for all Americans. H.R. 2785, The Health Care Paperwork Reduction and Fraud Prevention Act H.R. 2785 establishes a Commission on Billing Codes and Forms Simplification that is tasked with working with Medicare and the medical community to standardize and simplify billing practices while protecting patient privacy. The Commission would also study electronic forms and billing practices with the same goals in mind. This measure takes a practical approach by establishing pilot programs to work out the details with doctors, insurance companies, and government agencies before system-wide changes are implemented. To read more about the Republican Health Care Solutions Group, please click here .
09.17.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. –U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry today issued the following statement after voting ‘no’ on H.R. 3221, “The Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act,” a bill that replaces the long standing and respected Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) with government-run lending directly from the U.S. Treasury share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. –U.S. Congressman Mac Thornberry today issued the following statement after voting ‘no’ on H.R. 3221, “The Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act,” a bill that replaces the long standing and respected Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) with government-run lending directly from the U.S. Treasury: “For more than 40 years, the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) has provided over 200 million loans and countless young men and women with the opportunity to pursue higher education with very little cost to families. Abolishing this program will be bad for students, bad for schools, and bad for jobs. Government only lending will provide the bare minimum in services to students and families, while adding layers of bureaucratic red-tape and stacks of additional paperwork,” Congressman Thornberry said. The bill takes away a program that benefits millions and replaces it with a government-run program that will leave families with zero options. Because the private sector loan program offers schools and students a choice of lenders, the private lenders compete for business. This competition has lowered the cost of student loans and improved service to both students and schools. “The Democratic Majority in Congress is once again forcing a government takeover of private industry. They will kill 35,000 jobs in the student loan industry in the process. As the father of two college-age children, I know the cost of raising a family today is higher than ever, and I am dismayed that they will leave parents with no choice beyond a Washington bureaucracy to borrow money for their college-bound children. “A college degree has become the cornerstone of the American dream and opens the door to job opportunities and professional fulfillment. Yet, even after financial aid is taken into account, Americans find it increasingly difficult to pay for college, and graduates find themselves burdened with high levels of debt. Removing choice in the student loan market in this time of economic unrest could have major consequences,” Congressman Thornberry concluded.
09.09.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement after President Obama made an address on health care to a Joint Session of Congress share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement after President Obama made an address on health care to a Joint Session of Congress: “Tonight’s speech was the 28th speech the President has given on health care reform. I’m not sure the President has been listening to the concerns of the American people. They want a different plan, not another speech,” Congressman Thornberry said. “The President seems determined to inject more government into some of the most personal and difficult decisions any of us make. Even if the government insurance plan is taken out or watered-down, this approach sets up new boards and commissions that will come between doctors and patients.” “And the cost of this bill is still out of sight,” Thornberry added. “Rather than remake the whole system in a single bill, we need to narrow the focus and try to improve a few areas first and make sure we protect those things that help make our system the best in the world in many ways.” Neither the full House nor the full Senate has voted on a bill yet, although several committees have approved legislation that could be considered within the next few weeks. “I have heard from thousands of people over the past few weeks, and nearly all of them are very worried about what the President’s approach will mean to their health care and to our country,” Thornberry concluded.
09.08.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Mac Thornberry today announced that he will hold town hall meetings in Amarillo and Wichita Falls on Saturday, September 19, 2009. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Mac Thornberry today announced that he will hold town hall meetings in Amarillo and Wichita Falls on Saturday, September 19, 2009. These meetings will continue the practice that Thornberry has followed of holding town hall meetings, as well as telephone town hall meetings and other events across the 13th District. “I have heard from a lot of people in the past few weeks in letters, emails, phone calls, and in person. These town hall meetings are another way for me to listen to the people I work for and for me to share some of my thoughts with them,” Congressman Thornberry concluded. All citizens of the 13th Congressional District are invited to attend. Amarillo Town Hall Information: Saturday, September 19, 2009 8:30 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. Amarillo Civic Center Heritage Room 401 S. Buchanan Amarillo, Texas Wichita Falls Town Hall Information: Saturday, September 19, 2009 3:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. Midwestern State University Akin Auditorium 3410 Taft Blvd. Wichita Falls, Texas
08.24.2009	Amarillo, TX— Congressman Mac Thornberry today attended a Health Care Roundtable meeting hosted by the Amarillo Chamber of Commerce. He made the following comments share: f t Amarillo, TX— Congressman Mac Thornberry today attended a Health Care Roundtable meeting hosted by the Amarillo Chamber of Commerce. He made the following comments: “The Chamber did a great job of bringing together people with all sorts of perspectives on health care. I certainly appreciate their efforts as well as all of those who participated. Listening to them was very helpful in considering what’s wrong with the bills now before Congress and also in looking at what positive reforms are needed.” “In addition to these folks, I’ve heard from several thousand worried people across our area over the past few weeks. Health care decisions are intensely personal, and I have gotten letters, emails, and calls from doctors and nurses, from small business owners and the self-employed, and from patients who have received vital treatments that they are afraid may be denied them under this bill.” “Those on Medicare are concerned that a program already in financial trouble would be used to help fund a vast new program and that Medicare patients will suffer.” “I have also heard from a great many people who are just worried about our country – about the spending and the increasing government control over our lives, and I share those concerns.” “Listening to all of these perspectives is an important part of trying to do what’s right in health care – to keep the parts of the system that are working and to improve those things that are not working so well.” “To get the most out of every health care dollar, we must reduce litigation and paperwork. We should make insurance more affordable and reduce excessive regulations.” Among those attending today’s roundtable were representatives of large and small business, local health care providers, health insurers, and patients. Congressman Thornberry has introduced proposals to reduce paperwork, encourage physicians to practice in rural areas, assure access to care in rural areas, and reduce frivolous medical malpractice lawsuits. For more information on Congressman Mac Thornberry’s health care legislation please click here.
07.31.2009	Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) issued the following statement regarding the schedule for a vote on President Obama's health care reform proposal: "It is good that a vote on health care legislation has at least been delayed for a time. This issue is too important to rush through Congress, as other bills have been. But this small victory for common sense will be fleeting unless significant changes are made to this proposal. No one should mistake tactical compromises to move the legislation along for substantive changes in the goal of the President and the Speaker to have government-run health care." share: f t Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) issued the following statement regarding the schedule for a vote on President Obama's health care reform proposal: "It is good that a vote on health care legislation has at least been delayed for a time. This issue is too important to rush through Congress, as other bills have been. But this small victory for common sense will be fleeting unless significant changes are made to this proposal. No one should mistake tactical compromises to move the legislation along for substantive changes in the goal of the President and the Speaker to have government-run health care." "Everyone should examine how this health care reform bill may affect them. For example, senior citizens would see significant cuts in Medicare. Millions of seniors who have chosen Medicare Advantage plans will lose their coverage, and other seniors will find it harder to locate a doctor who will treat Medicare patients." "In addition to the tremendous cost, this bill makes a fundamental change in the relationship between people and their government. Medical care and end-of-life treatment choices are, and should always be, personal decisions made by a patient and a physician. If this bill becomes law, federal government bureaucrats will have a heavy hand in making decisions on who has “priority” for health care and other choices that should be made by families, patients, and doctors."
07.22.2009	Washington, DC – Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement in response to the scheduling of H.R. 2920, the “Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2009.” “Once again the leadership of this Congress has chosen political gimmicks over common sense and real reform. H.R. 2920, the “Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2009” has so many loopholes and exemptions that some 40% of federal government spending, including ALL discretionary spending, is exempt from the bill’s pay-as-you-go rules.” share: f t Washington, DC – Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement in response to the scheduling of H.R. 2920, the “Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2009.” “Once again the leadership of this Congress has chosen political gimmicks over common sense and real reform. H.R. 2920, the “Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2009” has so many loopholes and exemptions that some 40% of federal government spending, including ALL discretionary spending, is exempt from the bill’s pay-as-you-go rules.” “This bill does nothing to curb Washington’s appetite for taxpayer dollars, and that is where spending reform must start.” Among the major spending bills Thornberry noted Congress has passed this year are: * $350 billion for the second part of the TARP program, used for the auto bailout and other purposes. * $787 billion for the stimulus bill (H.R. 1). * $409 billion for the omnibus spending bill for 2009 (H.R. 1105). And that does not include: * Global Warming (H.R. 2454) passed the House, and is pending in the Senate and expected to cost consumers and businesses more than $100 billion per year. * Health care reform, which carries cost estimates of over $1 trillion. “The federal budget deficit for 2009 will be at least $1.84 trillion. That is at more than quadruple last year’s deficit. It doesn’t take a complicated formula or a lengthy debate to figure out how to eliminate this growing burden on future generations of Americans. All Congress has to do is ‘just say NO’ and stop the spending.”
06.26.2009	Washington, DC – As debate on the global warming bill, H.R. 2454 - The American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009 is poised to continue into Friday evening Congressman Mac Thornberry announced his intention to vote NO on the bill. “This 1000+ page bill may be the largest tax increase in the history of our country. It will erode the quality of life for each of us, it will make it harder for a lot of people in our area to earn their living, and it will raise the cost of practically everything we need or want. The consequences for rural areas will be especially severe,” said Congressman Thornberry. share: f t Washington, DC – As debate on the global warming bill, H.R. 2454 - The American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009 is poised to continue into Friday evening Congressman Mac Thornberry announced his intention to vote NO on the bill. “This 1000+ page bill may be the largest tax increase in the history of our country. It will erode the quality of life for each of us, it will make it harder for a lot of people in our area to earn their living, and it will raise the cost of practically everything we need or want. The consequences for rural areas will be especially severe,” said Congressman Thornberry. In addition to the 397 new federal regulations, and the thousand plus mandates to be imposed by the bill, Thornberry pointed to a study by State Comptroller of Texas Susan Combs indicating, that if passed, H.R. 2454 could cost Texans 164,000 jobs and shave $25 billion per-year off the state's total economic output. “To give you some perspective on what this means for our part of Texas, a study by the Heritage Foundation found that the impact of H.R. 2454 on Texas District 13 will be substantial,” concluded Congressman Thornberry. “We can expect to see a loss of as many as 4,100 jobs, a loss of over $895,000,000 in goods produced and a loss of over half-a-billion dollars in personal income if this bill passes. The bottom line is if Speaker Pelosi gets her way, passage of H.R. 2454 means higher taxes, fewer jobs, and a lot more government interference in each of our lives.
06.16.2009	Congressman Thornberry questioned the Obama Administration's North Korea plans at the National Defense Authorization Act hearing. share: f t Congressman Thornberry questioned the Obama Administration's North Korea plans at the National Defense Authorization Act hearing. To watch the video, please click here.
06.10.2009	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Mac Thornberry today introduced a package of health care reform bills aimed at addressing some of the significant problems in our current health care system. share: f t Washington, D.C. — Congressman Mac Thornberry today introduced a package of health care reform bills aimed at addressing some of the significant problems in our current health care system. “Health care reform must be about more than cost. It should also be about helping people be well and live more productive lives,” Congressman Thornberry said. The health care package includes: * H.R. 2784, The Partnership to Improve Seniors Access to Medicare Act, a bill that would create a program that would provide $20,000 a year in student loan repayment to medical professionals who agree to fill up to 30% of their practice for the year with Medicare patients. The goal of this bill is to provide an additional incentive for doctors, nurses, and other medical professionals to accept Medicare patients into their practice. * H.R. 2786, the Patient Fairness and Indigent Care Promotion Act, a bill that would help doctors treat low-income patients by allowing them to deduct the costs of treatment as a bad debt write-off from their federal taxes. This bill will provide incentives to doctors to treat more non-paying patients. * H.R. 2785, the Health Care Fraud and Paperwork Reduction Act, a bill that establishes a Commission on Billing Codes and Forms Simplification that is tasked with working with Medicare and the medical community to standardize and simplify billing practices while protecting patient privacy. The Commission would also study electronic forms and billing practices while protecting patient privacy. * H.R. 2787, the Medical Liability Procedural Reform Act, a bill that will authorize the Attorney General to give grants to states that establish health care tribunals that provide alternatives to current tort litigation. * H.R. 2692, the Critical Access Hospital Designation Waiver Authority Act. Every year, more and more of our rural community hospitals close due to higher costs and the inability to make ends meet. The loss of a hospital to a small rural community is often a serious blow to the whole community. H.R. 2692 would once again allow States the authority to waive the 35 mile requirement for Critical Access designation as long as a hospital meets all the other requirements for designation. The Critical Access Hospital designation is one way to equalize the playing field for these small community hospitals and to give them a chance at survival. “Our health care system is large and complex, so by no means will these proposals fix the entire system overnight. But I do think they present common sense solutions to some of the problems that face our health care system. We must carefully consider any changes we make in health care so that we fix what needs to be fixed without damaging the many good parts of the system,” Congressman Thornberry concluded.
05.21.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today introduced H.R. 2539, a bill to encourage the production of all types of domestic energy. share: f t Washington, DC - Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today introduced H.R. 2539, a bill to encourage the production of all types of domestic energy. "There is a stark contrast between my approach to energy and the approach favored by the President and his party,” said Congressman Thornberry. “I believe we should reduce America's dependence on foreign energy resources and help the environment by producing more energy of all kinds here at home. They seem to think that by raising taxes on energy, forcing people to buy small cars, and raising the price of practically every consumer product they can punish people into saving energy. Their global warming energy tax won’t work, and it will wreck the economy of rural America." Thornberry’s bill includes provisions that: • Encourage new refinery construction by requiring action to issue tax exempt bonds to be used for construction of certain refineries and make federal lands available for refinery construction. • Repeals the minimum capture requirement for the newly created CO2 sequestration credit in order to help smaller facilities qualify for the credit. • Boost alternative energy development by extending the Wind Production Tax Credit (PTC) for 10 years and extending the PTC for 5 years on other alternative energy sources, such as Closed-loop biomass, Geothermal, Landfill gas, Marine and Hydrokinetic, etc. • Support alternative fuels by making the excise tax on Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) and diesel comparable on an energy-equivalent basis and extending the Alternative Fuel Credit through 2010. • Boost solar energy development by extending the Investment Tax Credit (ITC) through 2018 for 2 years. • Open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to responsible drilling, potentially producing nearly a million barrels per day for several decades. • Encourage investment in a much-needed industrial base for building new nuclear power plants by reducing the tax burden on that industry. "There is no car company that makes a hybrid that can tow a livestock trailer. Big government politicians should quit trying to punishing hard-pressed American consumers with new taxes and regulations when what we need to do is encourage more energy production here at home,” concluded Thornberry. "For too long Congress has made it virtually impossible to build refineries and new power plants, and we have put much of the country off-limits to oil, gas, and coal development – even clean energy technologies like solar are difficult to site. This bill takes some common sense measures to help increase the supply of all forms of domestic energy without resorting to punishing taxes and regulations."
05.15.2009	If you are confused by the trail of conflicting explanations offered by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on what she did or did not know about waterboarding terrorists, you are not alone. Her migrating story reflects a politician under pressure and looking to point the finger at somebody — anybody — else. A more honorable response from the speaker would be as follows: “After 9/11, we knew that follow-on attacks were being planned and that thousands more Americans might be killed. We had neglected our intelligence capabilities over a number of years, and there was a lot we did not know about Al Qaeda. So we had to get information in order to protect American lives, and I supported that. Now, looking back, I wish I had done more to protest the use of certain enhanced interrogation techniques that had been briefed to me. But now, moving forward, it is important to learn from the past as we continue to defend American lives.” Somehow, I get the feeling that admitting mistakes, or sharing responsibility, is not the speaker’s style. Remember how we got here. The Obama administration selectively released certain classified Justice Department memos that gave legal analysis on whether the use of 13 enhanced interrogation techniques was proper. There were calls for criminal prosecution of the lawyers who wrote those memos and of those who conducted the interrogations. But it turned out that top Democrats and Republicans in Congress had been briefed on these techniques, including waterboarding, from the very beginning. So, if there were going to be prosecutions or a “truth commission,” then Congress would have to be investigated, too. The possibility that the truth would be revealed about what she knew and when she knew it is what sent the speaker backpedaling. All of the records have not yet been released, but so far those that have been made public show that Pelosi was briefed on the enhanced techniques in September 2002. Her staffer was briefed again in early 2003. Others in those briefings say they covered the whole subject — who, what, when. Part of the speaker’s current explanation is that, while she might have been told by her staff about the briefings, she no longer had any responsibility for intelligence matters. Her job was to beat Republicans and elect enough Democrats to take over the House. That may be the most disturbing thing Pelosi has said yet. To keep intelligence matters above petty partisanship, the top leader of both parties is an ex officio member of the intelligence committee, receives personalized intelligence briefings and has a dedicated staffer to monitor the committee’s activities. It is part of the job. The speaker’s excuse that she saw her job as waging partisan politics and that she could not be bothered with issues such as national security may sound a note of truth, but it is not what we expect of a national leader. Many Americans long for the day when the best interests of the country come first for our top leaders in Congress. Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-Texas) is a member of the House intelligence committee and a former chairman of its Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. Click here to read the story on Politico.com.
05.07.2009	Washington, D.C.— As you begin to make your summer travel plans, there will be several things that you need to add to your checklist before heading to Mexico, Canada, or the Caribbean. On June 1, 2009, the U.S. government will implement the full requirements of the land and sea phase of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI). The proposed rules under the WHTI will require U.S. citizens entering the United States at sea or land ports of entry to have a passport. share: f t Washington, D.C.— As you begin to make your summer travel plans, there will be several things that you need to add to your checklist before heading to Mexico, Canada, or the Caribbean. On June 1, 2009, the U.S. government will implement the full requirements of the land and sea phase of the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI). The proposed rules under the WHTI will require U.S. citizens entering the United States at sea or land ports of entry to have a passport. Currently, all U.S. citizens must show proof of identity and proof of U.S. citizenship when entering the United States from Canada, Mexico, Bermuda, and the Caribbean by land or sea. All persons travelling by air are required to show a passport to enter or re-enter the U.S. However, on June 1, all air, land, and sea passengers will be required to show a passport or other approved document. For a list of documents approved by the Department of Homeland Security, please visit http://www.getyouhome.gov/html/lang_eng/index.html. The State Department is encouraging people to seek passports now to avoid a backlog of applications, and the Department of Homeland Security is stepping up publicity along U.S. border towns about the new policy. The policy aims to keep terrorists out of the country and our borders safe. If you have not already done so, I encourage you to apply or renew your passport soon and, as always, contact my office or visit http://travel.state.gov/passport for more information about obtaining a passport.
04.29.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement concerning his vote against the passage of President Barack Obama’s budget: share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement concerning his vote against the passage of President Barack Obama’s budget: “The final $3.6 trillion budget passed by the House today is the largest budget in the history of the country. It will result in a nearly half-trillion dollar tax hike this year. Taxes on families, small businesses, and workers increase by $1.5 trillion over 10 years, and, despite proposing total tax collections equal to $14.2 trillion over five years, the President’s budget will result in the six largest annual budget deficits in American history, and $5.2 trillion in additional national debt by 2014.” “Today, as Congress passed this deficit spending plan, the Department of Commerce announced a 6.1 percent decline in the first quarter 2009 gross domestic product (GDP). Our country has lost more than two million jobs since the beginning of the year, and middle-class families and small businesses continue to suffer. Year-in-year-out small business creates as much as 70 percent of the new jobs in our economy. A tax increase on small business will kill those jobs; this is no time for a tax increase on small business.” “This budget spends money we don’t have, saddles our children and grandchildren with debt, and raises taxes on families and small businesses, and will even take away the middle-class tax cut the President promised during the campaign.” “It is possible to run the government without allowing spending to run away. I supported a budget that would have provided $1.2 trillion in tax relief. It also included provisions to end bailouts, reduce non-defense discretionary spending, and tackle health entitlements. The budget plan I supported would have reduced the national debt by more than $6 trillion compared to the President’s plan that passed today.” “When I vote for or against a bill in Washington I always remember that the money Washington spends comes from the wallet or purse of a taxpayer in Texas. At a time when American families have to tighten their belts, some in Washington still haven’t gotten the message and can’t seem to stop spending other people’s money. The spending has got to stop.”
04.28.2009	The United States Trade Representative (USTR) and the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA) today announced that there have been no reports of the new H1N1 human influenza occurring in swine in the United States. share: f t The United States Trade Representative (USTR) and the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA) today announced that there have been no reports of the new H1N1 human influenza occurring in swine in the United States. There have been cases of the “swine flu” in humans in the state of Texas. I encourage you to visit http://www.cdc.gov/swineflu/index.htm for information about the H1N1 strain of flu. The USTR and USDA are working closely with the Departments of Health and Human Services and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to monitor the situation carefully. In their statement, U.S. Trade Representative Kirk and Secretary of Agriculture Vilsack cite references from the World Health Organization (WHO) and Centers for Disease Control (CDC) statements that there is no evidence of swine influenza being transmitted by meat. Click here to read the statement issued by the USTR and USDA and check / for updates as they become available.
04.24.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C.— This coming Sunday, April 26, is Debt Day— the day that the tax revenue collected by the federal government runs out and the government starts using borrowed money to pay for its programs. This means that all of the money spent by Washington the rest of this year will either be borrowed from other countries or borrowed from future generations through taxes, increasing our federal debt dramatically. This is the earliest that debt day has ever occurred. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C.— This coming Sunday, April 26, is Debt Day— the day that the tax revenue collected by the federal government runs out and the government starts using borrowed money to pay for its programs. This means that all of the money spent by Washington the rest of this year will either be borrowed from other countries or borrowed from future generations through taxes, increasing our federal debt dramatically. This is the earliest that debt day has ever occurred. Fiscal Year Date That Debt Day Occurred 2009 April 26, 2009 2008 August 5, 2008 2007 September 9, 2007 2006 August 27, 2006 2005 August 14, 2005 2004 July 27, 2004 2003 July 29, 2003 Our economy is facing a very tough economic climate and American families and small business are making critical sacrifices. I believe that there is a role for the government to get the economy growing again and to help those who have lost their jobs. But taxing or borrowing money is not the way to help. The best way to create jobs and economic growth is to encourage the private sector to expand by making capital available. Currently, the debt burden per person is about $35,000, and in just eight years it will be $70,000. Our children and grandchildren will be forced to bear an unprecedented burden as a result of the excessive spending. Doubling the debt is no solution. It is my hope that Democrats and Republicans can come together to bring real fiscal responsibility and do what’s right for families, for small businesses, and for our country’s future.
04.03.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – “The $3.9 trillion budget the House passed late last night will push federal spending to the highest peacetime level in American history,” said Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13). “Over the life of the plan this budget will saddle future generations of taxpaying Americans with $9.3 trillion in new debt or about $68,000 per household. By forcing through a budget that accumulates more debt than all the budgets from George Washington to George W. Bush combined, President Obama and his party missed an historic opportunity to pass real tax reform and relief to break the tax, spend, and borrow cycle in Washington.” share: f t WASHINGTON, DC – “The $3.9 trillion budget the House passed late last night will push federal spending to the highest peacetime level in American history,” said Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13). “Over the life of the plan this budget will saddle future generations of taxpaying Americans with $9.3 trillion in new debt or about $68,000 per household. By forcing through a budget that accumulates more debt than all the budgets from George Washington to George W. Bush combined, President Obama and his party missed an historic opportunity to pass real tax reform and relief to break the tax, spend, and borrow cycle in Washington.” “The votes leading up to the passage of the budget last night presented a stark difference in vision for America’s future. On one hand was the package of proposals I supported that would have held federal spending at just over 20 percent of GDP, which is roughly the spending level before the recession; on the other hand was the budget that the President and his party passed to create a number of new and expensive federal programs. On one hand was a proposal to place a moratorium on earmarks, which I supported; on the other hand is the budget the President and his party forced through which allows this dubious practice to continue. On one hand was my proposal to end the death tax once and for all; on the other hand the President and his party forced through a plan to terminate even the temporary death tax relief small businesses, farmers and ranchers now enjoy ,” noted Congressman Thornberry. “I think it is fair to say that the budget forced through the House last night has little to do with stimulating the economy,” concluded Thornberry. “Rather than rewarding individual achievement, protecting property rights, and encouraging economic development by private entrepreneurs this budget will mean unprecedented levels of federal government intrusion into every sphere of American life.“
04.02.2009	Community banks play an essential role in the economy of our area. I have heard from a number of bankers about the heavy financial impact that the FDIC’s special assessment will have on them and on their ability to make loans to small businesses and consumers. I have sent a letter along with other Republicans in the Texas delegation to Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Chairman Bair asking her to consider other alternatives to restore the balance of the insurance fund that will not be as harmful to our community banks. Click here to read the letter that was sent to Chairman Bair.
04.01.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today released the following statement outlining his principles for this year’s budget debate and vote. share: f t WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today released the following statement outlining his principles for this year’s budget debate and vote. “Last week I released a package of tax reform principles and bills intended to encourage economic growth by focusing on small business and to make the federal tax system fairer to all taxpayers. With that background it should be no surprise that I am disappointed in the budget proposals offered by President Obama and the majority in the House. Instead of taking this opportunity to reach across the aisle and work together to achieve a tax system that is flatter and fairer, the President and his Party have offered a budget that raises taxes and spending to historic new levels.” “The good news is that over the next two days there will be a debate and a number of votes on these proposals. I will be working to pass a budget that does not raise taxes and over time reduces federal spending and debt to a sensible level.” “Among the amendments and alternatives to the President’s budget that I intend to support will be one to cut taxes and reform the tax system. Specifically, I hope we can pass an alternative that will allow individuals to choose to pay their federal taxes under the existing code, or move to a highly simplified system that fits on a post card, with few deductions and two rates. Under such a system, couples would pay 10% on their first $100,000 in income (singles on $50,000) and 25% above that. Capital gains and dividends would be taxed at 15%, and the death tax would be repealed permanently. The proposal includes generous standard and personal exemptions such that a family of four earning $39,000 would not pay any tax on that amount.” “I am also looking at various proposals to help revive peoples' lost savings and to create an incentive for risk-taking and investment. One attractive plan to accomplish that goal is to repeal the capital gains tax through 2010 for all taxpayers.” “While repealing the death tax and the capital gains tax will help encourage small business capital formation, our corporate income tax rate remains the second highest in the industrialized world. I am reviewing a variety of proposals to reduce the taxes on business to encourage them to maintain or expand their workforce.” “At the end of the week, when the budget debate and votes are done, I think we will have a pretty clear indication whether change means rewarding individual achievement, protecting property rights, and encouraging economic development or whether change means an expansion of spend, borrow, tax, and regulate.”
03.30.2009	Amarillo- Congressman Mac Thornberry will host Service Academy Forums in Amarillo and Wichita Falls to provide information to interested students and their parents about attending the United States service academies. The Wichita Falls forum will take place on Thursday, April 2, 2009 and the Amarillo forum will take place on Saturday, April 18, 2009. share: f t Amarillo- Congressman Mac Thornberry will host Service Academy Forums in Amarillo and Wichita Falls to provide information to interested students and their parents about attending the United States service academies. The Wichita Falls forum will take place on Thursday, April 2, 2009 and the Amarillo forum will take place on Saturday, April 18, 2009. Representatives from West Point, the Naval Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy will be present to answer questions. Staff members from Congressman Thornberry’s office will also be on hand to explain the application process. The forum is designed for potential nominees in their junior or senior year of high school, but all students, parents, and counselors are invited to attend. The schedule for the forums is as follows: Thursday, April 2, 2009 7:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. Wells Fargo Building in Parker Square Silver Square Room- 2nd Floor 2301 Kell Boulevard Wichita Falls, Texas Saturday, April 18, 2009 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. Amarillo Public Library- Southwest Branch 6801 Southwest 45th Avenue Amarillo, Texas Flyers for the Wichita Falls and Amarillo forums are attached to this email. For more information on academy appointments, click here.
03.24.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – “The federal government has tremendous power to reach into the pockets of every American and take out what it wants to fund its activities. People are willing to grant government that power as long as they believe the system to be fair and that it takes no more money than is necessary to achieve important national goals,” said Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13). “I am very concerned that this compact between the people and their government is now broken. That is why I have sponsored or cosponsored this package of tax reform legislation.” share: f t WASHINGTON, DC – “The federal government has tremendous power to reach into the pockets of every American and take out what it wants to fund its activities. People are willing to grant government that power as long as they believe the system to be fair and that it takes no more money than is necessary to achieve important national goals,” said Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13). “I am very concerned that this compact between the people and their government is now broken. That is why I have sponsored or cosponsored this package of tax reform legislation.” “Smart tax policy could help end the recession and get the economy growing again. Small business is the engine that drives the American economy, so the effect of tax policy on small business is especially important,” noted Congressman Thornberry. “In these troubled economic times, we need to help small businesses survive and grow. Unfortunately, many of the Obama Administration’s tax proposals are likely to hurt, not help small business.” Congressman Thornberry proposed the following “smart tax” goals that are keys to rebuilding economic growth: 1. Congress should make clear that taxes will not go up. Small business needs the certainty of no tax increases so they can have the confidence to grow and invest. 2. The tax code should not punish those who work hard and are successful. We want small business owners and others to work hard, grow their business, and be able to pass along what they have earned to their children. 3. The tax code should encourage capital formation so that small businesses can create jobs and expand. 4. Rather than penalize industry, the tax code should bolster key industries, such as the energy industry, upon which our entire economy depends. 5. Congress should undertake major reform to simplify the tax code. In order to achieve these goals Congressman Thornberry has sponsored or cosponsored the following bills: H.R.205, a bill to permanently repeal the Death Tax; H.R.25, The FAIR TAX promotes freedom, fairness, and economic opportunity by repealing the income tax and other taxes, abolishing the Internal Revenue Service, and enacting a national sales tax to be administered primarily by the States; H.R.470, amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for permanent tax incentives for economic growth; H.R. 301, the Economic Growth Through Tax Stimulus Act of 2009, a bill to make the 2001 and 2003 tax relief permanent; Further reduce marginal individual income tax rates by 5% for the next five years; Reduce the top business and individual income tax rate to 25% for the next five years and to increase expensing for small business; H.R.871, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide that the taxable income limit on the allowance for depletion shall not apply in 2008 to domestic marginal oil or gas wells; H.R. 1470, the Equity for Our Nation’s Self-Employed Act. A bill to allow the self-employed to deduct the cost of health insurance premiums as a business expense and to forego payroll (FICA) taxes on these costs; H.R. 982, a bill to terminate the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. “Government taxation can reward some while it punishes others, and the wrong tax policies will prolong the recession and even make it worse,” concluded Thornberry. “I am extremely concerned that unless serious tax reform is enacted we will soon have a system that is all punishment and no reward for small business.”
03.19.2009	Madam Speaker, None of us support payments of these bonuses to AIG employees or employees of other companies that the government has had to bail out. Unfortunately, we are only presented with one alternative to correct the situation. Interestingly enough, it is a tax bill. But the more important point is: How did we get here? We got here because the Democratic majority insisted on passing a 1000 page bill which nobody read and which was not exposed to the light of day, and in the hundreds of provisions in that bill was one that allowed bonuses to be paid. That bill passed without a single Republican in the House voting for it. And now that the provision tucked away in that 1000 page bill has come to light and proven embarrassing, how does the majority deal with it? They tax it – at a 90% tax rate. Now if this sounds familiar, it should. Hidden spending provisions, high taxes, spending, taxes, taxes, spending. It’s a pattern. The majority wants to make sure that the government decides who gets what and then is able to take it away. And they want to deflect attention away from their missteps. The better approach would have been for the Obama Administration not to allow these bonuses to begin with. They can put the necessary conditions on the money. It would have better to have that 1000 page bill open for viewing and for amendment. Instead we are left with a crass attempt at political cover. There has to be a better way.
03.17.2009	“I will do everything I can to see that President Obama’s proposal to charge wounded veterans for their medical care is defeated. It is a sad day for this country when an Administration is willing to spend billions bailing-out Wall Street and then tries to balance the budget on the backs of wounded veterans.” share: f t “I will do everything I can to see that President Obama’s proposal to charge wounded veterans for their medical care is defeated. It is a sad day for this country when an Administration is willing to spend billions bailing-out Wall Street and then tries to balance the budget on the backs of wounded veterans.”
03.11.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – “Last week the Senate blocked passage of H.R. 1105, President Obama’s $410 billion “omnibus” spending bill,” said Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13). “Unfortunately that was just a temporary reprieve for America’s taxpayers. This massive spending bill combines what should have been nine separate bills into one bill that gives 12 major federal government departments and agencies a $30 billion increase in funding. This new burden on taxpayers is the wrong course to encourage economic growth.” share: f t WASHINGTON, DC – “Last week the Senate blocked passage of H.R. 1105, President Obama’s $410 billion “omnibus” spending bill,” said Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13). “Unfortunately that was just a temporary reprieve for America’s taxpayers. This massive spending bill combines what should have been nine separate bills into one bill that gives 12 major federal government departments and agencies a $30 billion increase in funding. This new burden on taxpayers is the wrong course to encourage economic growth.” Congressman Thornberry noted that, “At $410 billion and 1,132 pages this bill is massive in scope and in dollars. It includes many policy directives that were never openly debated, as well as nearly 9,000 earmarks, many of dubious merit.” “When the Senate delayed this bill last week I had some slight optimism that a way to freeze federal spending might be found,” concluded Congressman Thornberry. “Unfortunately, typical Washington horse-trading prevailed and America’s hard-pressed taxpayers have been saddled with another $30 billion increase in spending on old-fashioned, big government programs. Rather than going on another Beltway spending spree Congress should be encouraging small business capital formation, providing tax relief to working families and taking other measures to help get Americans working again.” To view the full bill text of H.R. 1105, please click here.
03.06.2009	Washington, DC – Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement on the United States Senate’s procedural vote delaying passage of President Obama’s $410 billion “omnibus” spending bill and the passage of a Continuing Resolution (CR) to fund the government for another five days. share: f t Washington, DC – Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement on the United States Senate’s procedural vote delaying passage of President Obama’s $410 billion “omnibus” spending bill and the passage of a Continuing Resolution (CR) to fund the government for another five days. “The Senate’s action is a welcome, albeit temporary, reprieve for America’s hard-pressed taxpayers. With close to 9,000 earmarks, a cut in defense spending, and a $30 billion increase in overall federal spending, the Omnibus as proposed certainly does not represent a bipartisan consensus on how to get our economy growing again.” “If the Omnibus passes in its present form it will be the largest discretionary spending increase – except for a brief rise after the 9/11 terrorist attacks – since Jimmy Carter was President. Rather than increase federal spending by some $30 billion for the balance of this fiscal year (through September 30) on top of the enormous spending in the stimulus bill, we should freeze spending at current levels for the rest of the year.” “Unfortunately, this delay may be just a short-term strategy to allow time for some typical Washington horse-trading to get the votes necessary to pass another $30 billion increase in spending on old-fashioned, big government programs.” Thornberry statement ends To view the full bill text of H.R. 1105, please click here.
02.25.2009	Washington, DC— Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement after the House passed H.R. 1105, the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009: “The House has once again passed a massive spending bill with little time to debate it. Combined with the stimulus bill, it puts us at an 80% increase over last year’s budget,” Congressman Thornberry said. “It makes no sense to increase spending exponentially, greatly adding to the debt burden placed on our economy.” share: f t Washington, DC— Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement after the House passed H.R. 1105, the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009: “The House has once again passed a massive spending bill with little time to debate it. Combined with the stimulus bill, it puts us at an 80% increase over last year’s budget,” Congressman Thornberry said. “It makes no sense to increase spending exponentially, greatly adding to the debt burden placed on our economy.” “I am also concerned that within this large increase in spending some critical national security-related programs are significantly underfunded. This short fall for operations in our nuclear weapons complex must be corrected in the future,” Congressman Thornberry continued. H.R. 1105 includes nine appropriations bills that were not passed by Congress last year, and none were considered on the House floor. These nine bills should have each been considered individually, with the full House and the American people having the chance for input. The bill represents the largest one-year hike in annual discretionary spending since the Carter administration, and tops discretionary spending at more than $1 trillion for the first time in history. “Our economy is facing many challenges and American families are making critical sacrifices during these tough economic times. It is my hope that Democrats and Republicans can come together to bring real fiscal responsibility and do what’s right for families, for small businesses, and for our country’s future,” Congressman Thornberry concluded. To view the full bill text of H.R. 1105, please click here.
02.13.2009	Washington, DC – “Congress today passed the largest spending bill in the history of our country with only 90 minutes of debate and with very little time to review the 1,000 plus pages in the bill,” said Congressman Mac Thornberry. “The bill does very little to help small businesses create jobs, but it does a lot to grow the size and intrusiveness of government.” share: f t Washington, DC – “Congress today passed the largest spending bill in the history of our country with only 90 minutes of debate and with very little time to review the 1,000 plus pages in the bill,” said Congressman Mac Thornberry. “The bill does very little to help small businesses create jobs, but it does a lot to grow the size and intrusiveness of government.” “In fact, the bill is a step backwards in several key areas: It removes requirements that anyone receiving a contract paid for with funding from the bill must use the government's E-Verify program in order to ensure taxpayer money is not used to hire illegal workers; it will increase business’ health care costs and raise the possibility of additional class-action lawsuits against health care providers; it sets the stage for the government rationing of health care,” noted Thornberry. “These additions have nothing to do with stimulating the economy, and may actually slow our economic recovery.” Among the many spending programs unrelated to job creation, Thornberry cited as examples: • $2 billion for the Neighborhood Stabilization Fund, providing funds to organizations such as ACORN, which has been accused of practicing unlawful voter registration in recent elections • $1.3 billion for Amtrak, including $450 million for a new rail security grant program not included in either the House-passed or the Senate-passed bills • $8 billion for a High Speed Passenger Rail Program, after the House did not include any funding for the program and the Senate included $2 billion, which will fund at least one project from Las Vegas to Los Angeles • $170 million for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to research the cause, effects and ways to mitigate climate change • $200 million for Americorps and other paid “volunteerism” programs • $400 million for NASA to accelerate climate research missions • $1 billion for expenses in conjunction with the 2010 decennial census "When American families are hurting there is something fundamentally wrong with a bill that spends more on a pork barrel railroad project between Los Angels and Las Vegas, than it does in helping people in Michigan, the state with the highest unemployment in the nation,” said Congressman Thornberry. “This bill reflects the belief that government knows best and that taxing or borrowing money for bigger government is the best way to turn back this recession.” “I respectfully disagree because history and economics demonstrate that this solution will not work. Rather than more government, more debt, and more spending, we need fast-acting tax relief for working families and small businesses. The most recent data shows that small businesses created 60 to 80% of the net new jobs in the U.S. in each of the last ten years,” concluded Congressman Thornberry. “This bill spends hundreds of billions more on pork and unnecessary and unwise social engineering projects than it provides in job creating incentives, tax cuts and stimulus to job creating small businesses.”
02.12.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today made the following statement regarding the House – Senate Conference Committee Report finalizing an economic stimulus bill: share: f t WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today made the following statement regarding the House – Senate Conference Committee Report finalizing an economic stimulus bill: “We are in a serious recession, and many people in our community and around the country are hurting. I believe that there is a role for government to help get the economy growing again and to help those who have lost their jobs.” “But the bill before Congress takes the approach that taxing or borrowing money for the government to spend or redistribute is the best way to help. I believe that lower taxes and encouraging the private sector to expand by making capital available is the best way to create jobs and economic growth.” “This isn’t a petty political argument, but a fundamental debate about the size and scope of government and the role of federal power in the private economy and in our lives. We have to get it right; the potential for long-term damage to our economy and the erosion of the economic freedoms that have made us the richest nation on earth is huge.” “The economic stimulus bill agreed to in the Conference Committee Report is a compromise, not between Republicans and Democrats, but between the Democratic President and the Democratic House and Senate leadership. Thus, it reflects their belief that government knows best and that taxing or borrowing money for pork barrel government spending is the best way to help turn back this recession.” “I respectfully disagree, not because of politics, but because history and economics demonstrate that this solution will not work. Rather than more government, more debt, and more spending, I believe we should enact fast-acting tax relief for working families and small businesses, and where necessary, help folks who are unemployed with unemployment insurance and retraining. Using the President’s own economic analysis, the alternative plan I supported would have created twice the jobs at half the cost.” “Having written this bill behind closed doors, and compromised only with themselves, the Democratic President and the Democratic House and Senate leadership have made their choices about how to address our nation’s economic woes. I wish I could predict it will succeed, but I suspect that, if we take the President at his word, this level of spending and this level of federal intrusion into the economy is only the beginning.” “As the clock ticks toward the Presidents Day deadline President Obama set for passage of this important legislation the Democratic House and Senate leadership still have yet to release the language of the largest spending bill Congress has been asked to pass since World War II.” “I expect to issue another statement when the Democratic leadership releases the bill text and I complete my review and analysis of the final details of this 750+ page bill.” Statement ends To view the Conference Report on H.R. 1, please click here.
02.11.2009	WICHITA FALLS – Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) presented a Congressional Certificate of Appreciation to United States Navy Guard Veterans Jesse Dwain Holmes and John Earl Ryan, Jr. share: f t WICHITA FALLS – Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) presented a Congressional Certificate of Appreciation to United States Navy Guard Veterans Jesse Dwain Holmes and John Earl Ryan, Jr. “The Armed Guard was a secret weapon in the Navy during World War II. Brave men like Mr. Holmes and Mr. Ryan protected U.S. Navy merchant ships filled with vital supplies as they crossed the oceans,” Congressman Thornberry said. The U.S. Navy Armed Guard was first organized in World War I after merchant ships began to be attacked while transporting supplies across the ocean. By World War II, the Guard was reinstated, protecting the merchant ships from submarine attack as they crossed the ocean. Of the 144, 970 men in the Armed Guard, none were honored for the service in the years following the war due to the immediate disbanding of the Armed Guard, poorly kept records, and the secrecy surrounding the organization. The Armed Guard has been called the best kept secret of World War II. The National Defense Act of 1999 highlights the veterans’ accomplishments and the key role in that they played in the war. Through this resolution, the Armed Guard Service veterans are now entitled to receive a Congressional Certificate of Appreciation. “This Certificate of Appreciation is a long overdue thank-you to Mr. Holmes and Mr. Ryan, along with the thousands of men who bravely protected our supplies during the war and it’s an honor to have the opportunity to recognize these gentlemen with this award,” Congressman Thornberry concluded. Holmes served in the United States Armed Guard from 1944-1946 as Seaman, First Class. He now resides in Iowa Park. Ryan also served in the Armed Guard from 1944-1946 and resides in Wichita Falls. A photo of Mr. Holmes and Mr. Ryan receiving their certificates from Congressman Thornberry is attached. Photo credit Congressman Thornberry staff photo.
02.04.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement after S.352, the Digital Television (DTV) Delay act passed the House: "While many stations in our area are ready for the switch, the delay of the DTV transition may well cause significant confusion to many viewers. I have spoken with several broadcasters in the Amarillo and Wichita Falls areas and they all intend to go ahead with the switch on February 17,” Congressman Thornberry said. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today issued the following statement after S.352, the Digital Television (DTV) Delay act passed the House: "While many stations in our area are ready for the switch, the delay of the DTV transition may well cause significant confusion to many viewers. I have spoken with several broadcasters in the Amarillo and Wichita Falls areas and they all intend to go ahead with the switch on February 17,” Congressman Thornberry said. The DTV Delay Act delays the official transition of television broadcasting from analog to digital to June 12, 2009. Although the bill extends the deadline for consumer coupon requests for analog to digital converter boxes to July 31, 2009, it does not prevent a station from ending analog broadcasting before June 12, 2009. The delay will jeopardize the use of the spectrum that the transition was supposed to clear for police, firefighter, and other emergency use, putting public safety at risk.
01.28.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) today issued the following statement after the House voted to pass H.R. 1, the economic stimulus bill. “I agree that we need action to encourage economic growth and job creation, but it has to be focused on those that create the most jobs— small businesses,” Congressman Thornberry said. “Sixty to eighty percent of jobs are created by small businesses. Any attempt to save or create jobs must focus on that vital part of our economy,” Congressman Thornberry said. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) today issued the following statement after the House voted to pass H.R. 1, the economic stimulus bill. “I agree that we need action to encourage economic growth and job creation, but it has to be focused on those that create the most jobs— small businesses,” Congressman Thornberry said. “Sixty to eighty percent of jobs are created by small businesses. Any attempt to save or create jobs must focus on that vital part of our economy,” Congressman Thornberry said. The bill costs more than $800 billion – enough to write every man, woman, and child in the United States a check for $2,700— and it spends money on more than 150 federal programs, ranging from the National Endowment for the Arts to the renovation of the Department of Agriculture’s headquarters. While some of these programs may be beneficial, their effectiveness at helping grow the economy is questionable. “All of us are very concerned about the state of our economy. It is appropriate, in my view, for Congress and the Administration to take action that will encourage job creation and economic growth, but we will not borrow and spend our way back to a growing economy,” Congressman Thornberry concluded. To view the Conference Report on H.R. 1, please click here.
01.06.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today introduced the ‘‘Death Tax Repeal Act’’ a bill to permanently repeal the federal estate tax. “Family owned businesses, farms and ranches are the foundation of the rural economy,” said Thornberry. “As Congress debates new ideas on how to encourage economic growth we ought to follow the old maxim ‘first do no harm’ and make sure that the existing temporary reduction in the estate tax is not allowed to expire, returning the Death Tax rate to 55% on January 1, 2011.” share: f t WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today introduced the ‘‘Death Tax Repeal Act’’ a bill to permanently repeal the federal estate tax. “Family owned businesses, farms and ranches are the foundation of the rural economy,” said Thornberry. “As Congress debates new ideas on how to encourage economic growth we ought to follow the old maxim ‘first do no harm’ and make sure that the existing temporary reduction in the estate tax is not allowed to expire, returning the Death Tax rate to 55% on January 1, 2011.” “It is ironic that some in Congress have put forth lengthy and complicated plans to stimulate the economy through a massive government spending program, but have yet to consider my simple, two page bill to protect one of America’s most important means of capital formation, building a family enterprise,” noted Congressman Thornberry. “The estate tax is estimated to have raised about $22 billion dollars or about one percent of federal tax receipts in 2002. Economists estimate that the federal estate tax depresses the number of jobs by 170,000 to 250,000 each year, meaning repealing the Death Tax is a much more efficient way of creating jobs than borrowing and spending $1 trillion.” “With 18 original cosponsors for my bill I am hopeful that others in Congress are open to an honest examination of how capital formation and job creation actually occur for farms, ranches, and small businesses of all kinds,” concluded Congressman Thornberry. “With small business typically providing two-thirds of the job growth in our economy repealing the Death Tax would be one of the simplest and most cost-effective ways of protecting the economy of rural America.”
12.12.2008	The talk from Main Street coffee shops to the halls of Congress is now dominated by how to “save” or bailout various industries in the American economy. Unfortunately, too much of this conversation is driven by a political need to do “something” regardless of whether that “something” will actually get the economy growing again. We could be on the edge of a very dangerous precipice. Some of the proposals for the domestic automobile industry involve a virtual government takeover of those companies and the appointment of a government “car czar” to go with the $14 to $34 billion of taxpayer dollars. We are hearing politicians telling the shareholders of General Motors and other domestic automobile manufacturers who should or should not run their companies and what kind of cars they should build. Three months ago, the government took unprecedented action to prevent the collapse of the financial services sector of our economy and to stabilize the credit markets. It is hard to judge whether that effort has been successful because we can never know what would have happened to banks and businesses all around the country had action not been taken. But it was clear that the entire economy – every industry and sector – depended on access to credit. Shielding specific industries and specific companies from dealing with their problems is a different thing. Last week, a toy company and a large media company declared bankruptcy. Why should they not receive taxpayer money too? With automobiles, Ford has said they do not need or want an immediate loan, as is being proposed for GM and Chrysler. Millions of Americans are building cars for other companies and have not asked anything of the government. No one has argued that $14 billion or $34 billion is all that is needed to get the domestic companies on the path to success. The idea that if we extract enough money from the American taxpayer, we can override market forces and basic laws of supply and demand is just wrong. As always, a little perspective is helpful. A December 7 report on National Public Radio discussed the Ellis Brooks Auto Center in San Francisco. The late Mr. Brooks began his business in the 1930s and his widow, children, and grandchildren still operate the company. Between 1935 and today Brooks was a REO dealer, a Studebaker dealer, a Kaiser-Frazier dealer, a Hudson dealer, and on April 14th, 1955, he became a Chevrolet dealer. The Brooks dealership plans to terminate its relationship with Chevrolet this month, ending a 53-year new car dealer relationship with GM. In the 70-plus years the Brooks family has been in the car business, REO, Studebaker, Hudson, and Kaiser-Frazier have all come and gone. While economists and automobile enthusiasts will debate why each of these companies failed, the bottom line is that both the American economy and the Ellis Brooks Auto Center survived the rise and fall of those brands. Ultimately, the marketplace for the material and labor which go into a vehicle and the marketplace to sell vehicles will decide whether any particular company and its shareholders and workers will succeed or fail. And that is the heart of the problem; car companies survive and prosper by building and selling cars. After all the lobbying is done and after all the bailout money is spent, there is no guarantee that they will build a car we want to buy at a price we are willing to pay; only the market can do that. So what should be done? The normal course for large companies in trouble is to submit to a “pre-packaged bankruptcy proceeding.” The company can continue to operate, but there would be an opportunity to revise the high labor contracts which prevent these companies from being competitive. There would also be an opportunity to bring in new management and restructure the companies. In addition, the federal government should do all it can to encourage economic growth and job creation so that people in all industries can benefit. But that does not mean that the government should run those industries or dictate to companies what they must do. If a camel is a horse designed by committee, I can’t imagine what a car designed by a committee of politicians will look like. Substituting the judgment of a “car czar” or a committee composed of the heads of the six different federal departments for the choices buyers make in the market is the wrong way to create a 21st century American auto industry capable of competing in the world market.
10.03.2008	Madam Speaker, Deciding how to vote on this issue has been among the most difficult votes I have cast in Congress. The economic condition and well-being of every American will be affected. I continue to be uncomfortable with the degree of government intrusion into our economy that this bill would authorize. I also continue to be concerned about the economic consequences to all Americans if some sort of action is not taken. It is balancing those two positions that make this vote an extremely difficult one. The bill is better now than it was earlier. The increase in the amount of deposits that can be insured by the FDIC will help bring significantly more capital into all banks – those that are troubled and those who have not made the risky loans that precipitated this crisis. The SEC announcement “clarifying” the mark-to-market accounting rules could help unleash billions of dollars that were sidelined. Both of these changes will help bring more private capital into the system so that the entire burden of stabilizing troubled institutions does not fall on the taxpayers. If the asset purchase program is managed competently, the cost to the taxpayers should be far less than the $700 billion authorized, as both the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) have said. The other major consideration for me is that if this bill does not pass, a far worse bill probably will. I would like to write this bill differently and to have other options considered. I have little doubt, however, that if this improved bill does not pass today, the next bill will veer to the left in an attempt to attract more Democratic votes and will result in more government intrusion and a higher cost to the taxpayers. As I weigh my concerns about the level of government intervention with my concerns for the economic consequences of inaction or of a far worse bill, I have decided that it is in the best interests of the nation for this bill to pass so that hopefully the economic recovery can begin. There is a crisis of confidence in our credit system, and there is a real danger that if it spreads, Americans all across the country will not be able to get car loans, home mortgages, or loans to operate their businesses. There is even a danger that some may not be able to withdraw their money from various retirement accounts. The result could be a severe recession, greater unemployment, and consequences that all Americans will feel. It is likely that the U.S. will face more economic problems in the days ahead even with this bill. We will never know what bigger problems might be averted. But, in my view, the potential consequences of not acting outweigh the deep reservations I have about this proposal. I understand that any measure will be somewhat unfair in that those who took the excessive risks and made unwise decisions will be protected from the full consequences of their decisions. Unfortunately, some degree of unfairness is inevitable, but calculations of fairness must also consider what is best for the whole country. Finally, a tax bill was added to this measure. It would have been better to have kept the two bills separate. I strongly support extending current tax law so that Americans will not face a tax increase, which would be a huge blow to economic growth. However, I am not pleased with the numerous special interest tax provisions that are included and are exactly the kind of thing that understandably frustrates the American people about their government. A former minister in my home church used to say that “Sometimes you have to put aside your principles and do what’s right.” I believe at this extraordinary time passing this flawed bill is the right thing to do.
09.29.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) today issued the following statement to the Speaker after H.R. 3997, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, failed to pass the House by 23 votes share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) today issued the following statement to the Speaker after H.R. 3997, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, failed to pass the House by 23 votes: Madam Speaker, The issue before us is one of the most difficult decisions I have faced during my time in Congress. The reason it is so difficult is the concern about what will happen to our economy if this bill is not passed. But the bottom line is that this bill is an unprecedented intrusion by government into the economy of the country and is contrary to the common sense principles in which I believe. I have carefully weighed the opinion of many different sources, including those who have spent their professional lives in the financial sector and the American taxpayers I am privileged to represent. I am convinced that the United States faces a serious economic crisis, centered on Wall Street and high risk financial institutions but with shock waves that could extend throughout the country. I am further convinced that in this situation some sort of government action is needed and appropriate. In fact, Congress is partly responsible for this situation. Over the years, some in Congress have pushed government agencies and lenders to provide more loans than many could repay. Too many people borrowed too much money. Yet, those laws and regulations which helped to create this problem are not corrected in this legislation. Despite the fact that action is needed, I am not convinced that the bill before us is the type of government action that is appropriate or that it will be effective in solving our problems. In order to support a measure of this size and scope, there should be some reasonable belief that it will work – that it will solve the underlying causes of the problem. Of course, there are no "guarantees," as we keep hearing, but $700 billion of taxpayer money should not be used as a hopeful experiment. Yet, many believe that this bill will not be effective in preventing an economic downturn, and, in fact, does nothing to address the underlying issues that created the problems we face. It does little to bring more private capital into the market. It has no systemic reform of the regulatory agencies that helped contribute to the problem. The Fair Accounting Rules, which are widely believed to have aggravated the situation, are only studied, not changed. The bill is far better than it was as originally offered and now has more oversight and some checks and balances. But there is still enormous discretion with the Secretary of the Treasury, more power than seems wise to give to anyone. The core of the plan is to have the federal government buy assets which cannot be sold to anyone else. Those who have the most of these assets, often based on "zero-down loans" and "no doc/low doc" mortgage loans, will obviously benefit the most. Those who were more prudent in their lending will benefit less. I understand that any measure will be somewhat unfair in that some of those who took the excessive risks and made unwise decisions will be protected from the full consequences of their decisions. Some degree of unfairness is inevitable. But it is important to keep foremost in our minds that the foundation of the American economy is not Wall Street traders or multi-national banks. The foundation of our economy is American businesses and workers who pay their bills and taxes on time, who borrow responsibly and take reasonable risks, and create economic value, jobs, and a higher standard of living. If this measure damages them, it damages our present economy and our future. I am afraid that this bill does damage well-run companies and institutions, and it certainly damages the American taxpayer. The only compelling argument I can find on behalf of this bill is that we will confront a credit crisis and severe recession if it does not pass. Obviously, I hope that will not happen. But failure of this specific proposal should not mean that we stop trying to find common sense answers to support our economy. Congress can return to work immediately, listening not just to the Secretary of the Treasury this time, but to commercial bankers and economists and taxpayers across the country. There are a number of good ideas which can be considered in a thorough but timely way. We should not rush into a flawed proposal that will have consequences that last for generations.
09.25.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) today issued the following statement on the expiration of the 26-year-old ban on offshore drilling share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) today issued the following statement on the expiration of the 26-year-old ban on offshore drilling: “There is no one solution to our energy crisis. While the lifting of this moratorium is an important step towards greater energy security, we must continue to fight for a permanent fix to our energy problem that produces more energy of all kinds and eliminates the many hoops that one has to jump through in order to begin drilling,” Congressman Thornberry said. On October 1, 2008, the current prohibitions on energy leasing on most of the Outer Continental Shelf and on oil shale leasing on federal lands will expire. While this is a big change for offshore exploration, there are still many hurdles that make obtaining an oil lease a long, expensive process. “Energy is at the heart of the economic strain that American families are feeling right now. The high cost of energy has driven the cost of everything up- from the price of milk at the grocery store to price of heating ones home. I have supported, and will continue to support, legislation that eliminates the many bureaucratic hurdles that one has to go through in order to begin drilling and limit lawsuits that can prevent drilling at all,” Congressman Thornberry said. “This is one important step in the right direction and many more are needed,” Congressman Thornberry concluded.
09.16.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) today issued the following statement as Congress debates H.R. 6899, the Comprehensive American Energy Security and Consumer Protection Act, an omnibus energy bill developed by House Democrats. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) today issued the following statement as Congress debates H.R. 6899, the Comprehensive American Energy Security and Consumer Protection Act, an omnibus energy bill developed by House Democrats. Madam Speaker, The approval ratings for Congress are at record lows, and it is no wonder. The American people see that too often this Congress has played partisan games rather than confronting the issues head-on in a straightforward way. Today the games continue. The Democrat’s Energy Bill is a fig-leaf designed to cover a political problem. It is not real. Rather than untie our hands so we can produce more energy of all kinds here at home, in many ways this bill makes it harder. In several important areas of energy production, this bill does nothing. This bill does nothing to develop more nuclear energy. This bill does nothing to build more refineries. This bill extends the wind tax credit by only one year, but does nothing to make it easier to plan and finance the large investments that are necessary to build wind farms. Even on drilling off our coasts, this bill replaces a temporary ban that will expire two weeks from today with a permanent ban on exploring and producing where most of the oil is. It prohibits all drilling within 50 miles of the coast line, where the Minerals Management Service says 88% of the oil is located. From 50 to 100 miles, states can choose to drill, but get no royalty payments – None. So there is little incentive for them to allow drilling even for the 12% of the oil that may be there. Drilling can occur more than 100 miles away – which is technologically impossible in some areas. But even where it is possible, this very same bill repeals the existing tax incentives which encourage deep water drilling. Of course, should a new drilling opportunity slip through these new regulations and restrictions, lawsuits are ready and waiting to shut it down, and this bill does nothing to limit them. There are many good, serious energy proposals that have been introduced in this Congress. Over a year ago, for example, I introduced the “No More Excuses Energy Act,” a bill that would encourage energy production of all kinds here at home. Unfortunately, the legislation that we are discussing today is just another excuse not to take real action to solve our energy shortfalls. It hardly seems too much to ask to allow this House two or three days to go through the various ideas, allowing members to vote according to their districts and their consciences. Energy is that important, that central to our country’s security and quality of life. Instead, this charade will disappoint the American people yet again on the issue that most directly affects their family and well-being. We can and should do better. For more information on H.R. 6899, please click here.
08.05.2008	Washington, DC – Congressman Mac Thornberry today took to the floor of the House, joined by other Members of the House Republican Conference, to demand a vote on comprehensive domestic energy production legislation. “To leave and do nothing is just irresponsible to me. It is a major neglect of one of the primary responsibilities of Congress for the Speaker to recess the House without passing a comprehensive domestic energy production bill,” said Thornberry. share: f t Washington, DC – Congressman Mac Thornberry today took to the floor of the House, joined by other Members of the House Republican Conference, to demand a vote on comprehensive domestic energy production legislation. “To leave and do nothing is just irresponsible to me. It is a major neglect of one of the primary responsibilities of Congress for the Speaker to recess the House without passing a comprehensive domestic energy production bill,” said Thornberry. “Over a year ago I introduced H.R. 3089, “The No More Excuses Energy Act of 2007.” The bill would encourage more domestic production of all forms of energy; oil, gas, nuclear, and renewables, such as wind. Since the bill was introduced, a discharge petition has been filed to try to force it to the floor for a vote and it has been proposed as an amendment to a variety of other bills. But the Speaker has never allowed it to come to a vote because the Speaker is opposed to more domestic energy production, and if a vote were to occur the Speaker’s position would lose, so she’s not going to risk that” noted Thornberry. “Tying our own hands on energy production is foolish. We have to untie them or the quality of life for every American is going to suffer, and the only way to untie our hands is to convince the Speaker to call a vote on a comprehensive domestic energy production bill,” concluded Thornberry. GOP lawmakers began a spontaneous revolt to protest the Democrats’ decision to adjourn the House for the five-week August recess without giving the House a chance to vote on Republican legislation to curb rising gas prices. Even after Democrats turned off the lights and microphones, and with TV cameras shut down, Republicans kept talking to rally public support for more domestic energy production. Republicans have threatened to keep their uprising going to pressure the Speaker for a vote on comprehensive domestic energy production legislation.
07.31.2008	Washington, DC – Congressman Mac Thornberry today issued the following statement regarding H.Con.Res.398, the Resolution recessing Congress for the August congressional recess: “The Speaker’s refusal to keep Congress in session until we take action on a comprehensive energy bill is very disappointing. Refusing to allow even a vote on any of the proposals to increase domestic energy production degrades the institution and the people’s confidence in their government. Refusing to allow such a vote also means every American will pay more in energy cost than they should.” share: f t Washington, DC – Congressman Mac Thornberry today issued the following statement regarding H.Con.Res.398, the Resolution recessing Congress for the August congressional recess: “The Speaker’s refusal to keep Congress in session until we take action on a comprehensive energy bill is very disappointing. Refusing to allow even a vote on any of the proposals to increase domestic energy production degrades the institution and the people’s confidence in their government. Refusing to allow such a vote also means every American will pay more in energy cost than they should.” Thornberry is the author of H.R. 3089, “The No More Excuses Energy Act of 2007,” to encourage domestic energy production of all kinds. It would create a competitive leasing program to responsibly drill on federal lands in Alaska and remove the congressional moratoria on drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf; encourage construction of new refineries by requiring the IRS to implement provisions from the Energy Policy Act of 2005; allow tax exempt bonds to be used for construction, and make use of federal lands for new refineries; expand electricity generation by encouraging investment into building new nuclear power plants and boosting alternative energy development through wind power by extending the Production Tax Credit for ten years. Congressman Thornberry’s bill is the subject of a discharge petition and other efforts to force the Democratic Leadership to bring it to the Floor for a vote. “Over a year ago I introduced H.R. 3089, ‘The No More Excuses Energy Act of 2007.’ The bill would encourage more domestic production of all forms of energy; oil, gas, nuclear, and renewables, such as wind. Since the bill was introduced, a discharge petition has been filed to try to force it to the floor for a vote and it has been proposed as an amendment to a variety of other bills, including two just this past week. But the House leadership has never allowed it to come to a vote. In fact, despite the current energy crisis, no bill to provide for new oil and gas production or new nuclear plants has even been voted on in the House of Representatives, much less gone to the President for his signature,” said Thornberry. "The American people want Congress to roll-up its sleeves and get something done on energy. There are a lot of ideas to be considered and this is the wrong time to send Congress home for more than a month,” concluded Congressman Thornberry.
07.25.2008	Washington, DC – Congressman Mac Thornberry today provided the following comments on the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington’s Order entering a permanent injunction affecting the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) management of the Conservation Reserve Program’s Critical Feed Use initiative. share: f t Washington, DC – Congressman Mac Thornberry today provided the following comments on the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington’s Order entering a permanent injunction affecting the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) management of the Conservation Reserve Program’s Critical Feed Use initiative. “The Judge found that the USDA violated the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) when they decided, on the basis of their ‘Environmental Evaluation,’ that the Critical Feed Use initiative would have no significant adverse environmental consequences, and accordingly concluded that a more stringent Environmental Assessment or Environmental Impact Statement was not necessary,” said Thornberry. “Fortunately for the many landowners and ranchers who relied on the USDA’s actions, the Judge also ‘grandfathered in’ their participation in the program.” According to the Permanent Injunction, applicants for the Critical Feed Use initiative (CFU) who had applied and been approved for participation on or before entry of the initial temporary restraining order (TRO) on July 8, 2008, are grandfathered and may participate in the CFU as the program was announced, with the originally stated November 10 ending date for haying and grazing. Applicants who had applied but not been approved before entry of the initial TRO, and who have been or will be approved subsequently for participation in the CFU, will be permitted to participate but must end haying activity by September 30 and grazing activity by October 15. Anyone who applies to participate in the CFU and can demonstrate detrimental reliance, by having expended $4,500 or more, may be approved for and participate in the CFU but also must end haying activity by September 30 and grazing activity by October 15. There will be no reduction in CRP rental payments for those participating in the CFU. The clock for managed haying and grazing will be restarted for any participant who hays or grazes under the CFU. “Naturally, I would have liked to see the injunction lifted entirely, because I continue to believe that individual property owners are the best stewards of the land,” concluded Congressman Thornberry. “But given the circumstances, preserving the contracts of those individuals who honestly relied on the USDA’s actions is probably the best result that could be obtained.” To review or download the Order Entering Permanent Injunction in PDF format click here or go to /images/crp-cfu_final%20injunction%20and%20order.7.24.08.pdf
07.22.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On July 22, Congressman Mac Thornberry gave keynote remarks about U.S. strategic communication and public diplomacy at the Heritage Foundation. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – On July 22, Congressman Mac Thornberry gave keynote remarks about U.S. strategic communication and public diplomacy at the Heritage Foundation. The program titled “U.S. Strategic Communication and Public Diplomacy: A New Organization Needed?” was hosted by journalist and commentator Tony Blankley and brought together over 120 journalists, academics and policymakers to discuss how the United States can do a better job at engaging our terrorist enemies in the battle of ideas. The Heritage Foundation is one of Washington’s premier think tanks, whose mission is to formulate and promote conservative public policies based on the principles of free enterprise, limited government, individual freedom, traditional American values, and a strong national defense. To listen to Congressman Thornberry’s key note address in full, please click here.
07.21.2008	WASHINGTON — The Internal Revenue Service today reminded qualifying retirees and veterans that it is not too late to file for an economic stimulus payment and announced it will send a second set of information packets to 5.2 million people who may be eligible but who have not yet filed for their stimulus payment. The packages will contain everything needed by a person who normally does not have a filing requirement but who must file this year in order to receive an economic stimulus payment. There will be instructions, an example Form 1040A return showing the few lines that need to be completed, and a blank Form 1040A. The packages will be mailed over a three-week period starting July 21. share: f t IRS Sending Stimulus Payment Information to Retirees, Veterans WASHINGTON — The Internal Revenue Service today reminded qualifying retirees and veterans that it is not too late to file for an economic stimulus payment and announced it will send a second set of information packets to 5.2 million people who may be eligible but who have not yet filed for their stimulus payment. The packages will contain everything needed by a person who normally does not have a filing requirement but who must file this year in order to receive an economic stimulus payment. There will be instructions, an example Form 1040A return showing the few lines that need to be completed, and a blank Form 1040A. The packages will be mailed over a three-week period starting July 21. “All it takes is a few simple steps, and the payment can be on its way. It’s not too late to file, but the sooner people file, the faster they’ll receive their money,” said Doug Shulman, IRS Commissioner. The mailing is part of an IRS summer campaign to reach out to those people who have no requirement to file a tax return but who may be eligible for a stimulus payment of up to $300 ($600 for married filing jointly). For those eligible for a payment for themselves, there also is a $300 per child payment for eligible children younger than 17. The IRS has accounted for about 75 percent of the approximately 20 million Social Security and Veterans Affairs beneficiaries identified as being potential stimulus recipients. All but 5.2 million of those have either filed a return, filed a joint return or were not eligible for a stimulus payment (for example, they were claimed as a dependent on another’s return). To reach the remaining recipients, the IRS is working with national partners, members of Congress and state and local officials to ensure that assistance to eligible people is available. The agency also reminded people that it has more than 400 local Taxpayer Assistance Centers operating normal business hours Monday through Friday. These centers can provide assistance to retirees and veterans trying to receive their payments. A list of addresses and office hours can be found at “Contact My Local Office.” The Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 provided for payments of up to $600 ($1,200 for married filing jointly) for taxpayers who normally file a tax return and have a tax liability. It provided that stimulus recipients could receive another $300 for each eligible child younger than 17. The Act also created a special category for people who had certain types of income but may not file a tax return because their income is too low or their income is nontaxable. People in this category must have at least $3,000 in qualifying income to be eligible for the minimum amount of $300 ($600 married filing jointly). Qualifying income is the total of Social Security, Veterans Affairs and/or Railroad Retirement benefits plus earned income, including nontaxable combat pay People receiving only Supplemental Security Income are not eligible. Eligible people must have a Social Security Number (unless their spouse is a member of the military) and be neither a dependent nor eligible to be a dependent on another’s tax return. Receiving the stimulus payment should have no impact on other federal benefits currently being received. The stimulus payment is not taxable. Absent any other filing requirements, filing a tax return to receive a stimulus payment does not mean that retirees and others will have to start filing tax returns again. As of July 11, the IRS had issued 112.4 million payments totaling $91.8 billion. Payments are based on 2007 tax returns being filed this year. People must file by October 15 in order to receive a payment in 2008. Those who do not file a tax return to obtain their stimulus payment this year may still receive their stimulus payments by filing a 2008 tax return next spring, but then their stimulus payment would be based on their 2008 qualifying income.
07.17.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Congressman Mac Thornberry, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities participated in a panel discussion on “Fighting Terrorism in the 21st Century: Sharpening the Tools of Strategic Communication and Public Diplomacy” at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS). share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C.- Congressman Mac Thornberry, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities participated in a panel discussion on “Fighting Terrorism in the 21st Century: Sharpening the Tools of Strategic Communication and Public Diplomacy” at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS).
07.16.2008	Washington, DC – The House of Representatives today overrode the President’s veto of H.R.6331, the Medicare physician payment fix, by a vote of 383-41, with Congressman Mac Thornberry voting to override the veto. “I continue to be disappointed and frustrated at the partisan games in Congress which make it hard to find real, permanent solutions to the problems we face,” said Thornberry. “This is only a short-term fix, but I voted to override the President’s veto because the potential of a 10% cut in Medicare reimbursements, driving more physicians out of the Medicare system, cannot be tolerated. Due to partisan politics, and the Majority's failure to bring a bill up early enough to allow real debate, the alternative bill to provide a permanent fix to this problem was never even allowed a vote.” share: f t Washington, DC – The House of Representatives today overrode the President’s veto of H.R.6331, the Medicare physician payment fix, by a vote of 383-41, with Congressman Mac Thornberry voting to override the veto. “I continue to be disappointed and frustrated at the partisan games in Congress which make it hard to find real, permanent solutions to the problems we face,” said Thornberry. “This is only a short-term fix, but I voted to override the President’s veto because the potential of a 10% cut in Medicare reimbursements, driving more physicians out of the Medicare system, cannot be tolerated. Due to partisan politics, and the Majority's failure to bring a bill up early enough to allow real debate, the alternative bill to provide a permanent fix to this problem was never even allowed a vote.” Thornberry noted that on June 24, the House was presented with a bill, to which no amendments were allowed, that delayed the cuts for 18 months and made a number of other changes in Medicare. “I voted against that bill because a better bill was available and should have at least been brought to a vote,” noted Thornberry. “Unfortunately, due to partisan considerations, the better bill was never allowed a vote in either the House or the Senate. After the President vetoed the measure, I voted to override the veto – and thus approve – the legislation because July 15 is literally the last day to pass a bill before the 10% cut in Medicare reimbursements would become effective.”
07.15.2008	Washington, DC – Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) announced that he and other Members of the Texas Congressional Delegation have written to encourage the U.S. Department of Agriculture to lift a judge’s temporary restraining order against the Conservation Reserve Program Critical Feed Use Program. share: f t Washington, DC – Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) announced that he and other Members of the Texas Congressional Delegation have written to encourage the U.S. Department of Agriculture to lift a judge’s temporary restraining order against the Conservation Reserve Program Critical Feed Use Program. “More than 1,000 applications representing more than 218,000 acres have already been granted to producers in our region,” noted the Congressmen. “All of these decisions were based on a good-faith contract.” “Much of the land in our region is experiencing extremely dry conditions, and the threat of fire on the dry grasslands is very high and very real,” said Thornberry. “The Critical Feed Use program afforded producers the ability to reduce the threat of fire through responsible haying and grazing and, therefore, be conscientious stewards of the land.” On Tuesday, July 8, a federal judge in Seattle stopped the emergency federal program that allows grazing and hay production on millions of acres of farmland nationwide that had been set aside for conservation. The injunction ordered by U.S. District Judge John C. Coughenour could affect 24 million acres of conservation lands across the country, including grasslands in Texas. Coughenour ordered the temporary restraining order after a suit was filed by the National Wildlife Federation and six affiliates over the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) decision in May to allow grazing and hay production on land now protected under the federal Conservation Reserve Program (CRP). The program, begun in 1985, pays farmers across the country not to plant fragile lands, and to return them to native grasses and vegetation. The letter to U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Ed Schafer was signed by Thornberry and Representatives Randy Neugebauer (TX-19) and K. Michael Conaway (TX-11).
06.26.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) today issued the following statement following a Supreme Court ruling that the District of Columbia cannot ban its citizens from owning guns share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) today issued the following statement following a Supreme Court ruling that the District of Columbia cannot ban its citizens from owning guns: “This is one of the most significant victories for the Second Amendment in American history, and I am pleased that the Court reaffirmed each citizen’s constitutional right to keep and bear arms. The right to bear arms and defend oneself now clearly applies to every law-abiding American, even those who live in Washington, D.C.,” Congressman Thornberry said. Before this holding, Thornberry, along with 250 Representative and 55 Senators, signed an amicus brief urging the justices to uphold this right. It was the largest number of Members of Congress to ever sign an amicus brief sent to the Supreme Court. The ruling re-affirms that the right to bear arms is an individual right and is not tied to a citizens participation in a militia, an argument some have made over the years to limit our Second Amendment rights. “The message of this ruling is simple: Americans should have the ability to defend themselves and own guns for hunting, and the Constitution guarantees this right,” Thornberry concluded.
06.20.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) and Congressman John Culberson (R-Houston) today discussed civil liberties and privacy protection in the newly passed FISA Amendments Act of 2008. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) and Congressman John Culberson (R-Houston) today discussed civil liberties and privacy protection in the newly passed FISA Amendments Act of 2008. “This compromise does what is necessary to allow our troops to operate in the field, allow our national security professionals to help prevent a terrorist attack at home all the while making sure American citizens here at home and overseas are protected with the Constitutional rights that they are given,” Thornberry said. “The new FISA legislation provides strong civil liberties protections. Republicans and Democrats worked together to guarantee that constitutional rights would not be compromised. In this video Congressman Mac Thornberry takes questions from Congressman John Culberson and explains how this bill provides for FISA court review of future surveillance authorizations and federal district court review of civil liability determinations.”
06.19.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement after House Democrats called for the nationalization of America’s oil and gas industries share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement after House Democrats called for the nationalization of America’s oil and gas industries: “I can think of nothing worse for the future of America’s energy independence than putting the government in charge of the oil industry as some Democrats have suggested,” Thornberry said. “My approach is to unleash the creativity and enthusiasm of America’s entrepreneurs in the private sector to develop new sources and new supplies of all types of domestic energy.” Thornberry is the sponsor of H.R. 3089, the No More Excuses Energy Act. The bill includes language to allow drilling in ANWR and offshore. It also includes tax credits to capture carbon dioxide coming up smoke stacks and use it to flush oil out of existing wells, allowing us to get more oil out of wells that we already have and, at the same time, reduce green house gas emissions. The No More Excuses Energy Act will also extend the wind energy tax credit for 10 years, and encourage investment in nuclear power plants, and in new refineries. “High energy prices have placed a real burden on America’s families, farmers, ranchers and businesses. As energy prices rise, the cost of just about everything we buy goes up as well. It is particularly difficult for folks who live in rural areas where the agricultural economy depends on energy intensive equipment and travel distances between communities are significant. H.R. 3089, the ‘No More Excuses Energy Act,’ would get the federal government to stop tying our hands on energy production, take some common sense steps to encourage more American energy production, and provide consumers relief they deserve at the gas pump,” Thornberry concluded. For more information on H.R. 3089, the No More Excuses Energy Act, go to /index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=125&Itemid=57 For quotes from House Democrats advocating nationalization of the oil industry go to http://www.foxnews.com/urgent_queue/index.html#a54ef44,2008-06-18.
06.12.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement on a discharge petition filed by Representative Tim Walberg (R-MI) to force a vote on H.R. 3089, the No More Excuses Energy Act. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-Clarendon) issued the following statement on a discharge petition filed by Representative Tim Walberg (R-MI) to force a vote on H.R. 3089, the No More Excuses Energy Act. The bill, of which Thornberry is the author, includes language to allow drilling in ANWR and offshore. It also includes tax credits to capture carbon dioxide coming up smoke stacks and use it to flush oil out of existing wells, allowing us to get more oil out of wells that we already have and, at the same time, reduce green house gas emissions. The No More Excuses Energy Act will also extend the wind energy tax credit for 10 years, and encourage investment in nuclear power plants by, and in new refineries. “The approach of the No More Excuses Energy Act is that we need to produce more energy of all kinds here at home,’’ Thornberry said at a news conference on Tuesday. “We need to do more of everything here at home because every bit of energy we can produce at here is one less barrel we have to buy from foreign countries.” A discharge petition is a means of forcing a bill to the floor for a vote. In order to be successful, the petition must obtain the signatures of 218 members. The No More Excuses Energy Act was introduced in July of 2007. This week, House Republicans filed a discharge petition which, if successful, will force a vote on the bill. “Some things we can’t control, but some things we can, and I think its time for no more excuses about why this Congress doesn’t take more action to produce more energy of all kinds here at home,” concluded Congressman Thornberry. For more information on the No More Excuses Energy Act go to /index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=125&Itemid=57
06.11.2008	WASHINGTON — A Democratic proposal to impose heavier taxes on big oil companies stalled in the Senate on Tuesday as Republicans and Democrats offered different ideas on how to deal with soaring energy costs. share: f t WASHINGTON — A Democratic proposal to impose heavier taxes on big oil companies stalled in the Senate on Tuesday as Republicans and Democrats offered different ideas on how to deal with soaring energy costs. A bill that would have rolled back some $17 billion in tax breaks on Big Oil and pressured the companies to invest in new energy sources by hitting them with a windfall-profits tax if they did not failed to get enough votes to move forward. Fifty-one senators voted to bring the measure up for consideration, but that was nine short of the number needed under Senate rules. Forty-three senators, most of them Republicans, voted “no.” The oil-tax proposal was one of two energy-related bills that failed to advance. The other was a proposal to amend the Internal Revenue Code by providing “incentives for energy production and conservation, to extend certain expiring provisions, to provide individual income tax relief, and for other purposes,” as the measure to promote new energy sources was officially described. The vote to take up that legislation was 50-44, or 10 “yes” votes fewer than necessary. The votes were against a backdrop of $4-a-gallon gasoline and oil prices that have gone over $139 a barrel just at the start of the summer vacation season. “I remember when gas was about a buck, 40 cents,” Senator Jon Tester, a Montana Democrat whose constituents often have to drive long distances, lamented before the votes. Republican opponents of the oil-tax measure have argued that higher taxes on Big Oil would backfire, driving up gasoline prices and discouraging new domestic oil production and exploration. If the bill were approved, the American people “will get exactly what they don’t want,” said Senator Pete Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, who predicted higher prices and more reliance on imports. As for the alternative-energy bill that was sidelined, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican minority leader, summed up the argument of most of his party colleagues by asserting that “those who think we can tax our way out of this problem” are wrong. The White House said the United States was “paying a price today for decades of Democratic opposition and regulatory obstacles to increasing domestic oil production,” as President Bush’s spokesman Tony Fratto put it. “Instead of populist votes that would do nothing for gas prices, we need to allow domestic oil production in environmentally sensitive ways,” Mr. Fratto said, in an apparent allusion to the idea of exploring in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.. Senate Democratic leaders were reportedly resigned to defeat on the oil-tax bill and did not ask Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Barack Obama of Illinois, who just completed their months-long competition for the presidential nomination, to show up for the vote. The other four absentees were John McCain of Arizona, the presumptive Republican nominee for president; Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, and Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, Democrats who have been ill. Six Republicans voted “yes” on the oil-tax bill. They were Norm Coleman of Minnesota, Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, John W. Warner of Virginia, Gordon Smith of Oregon and Susan M. Collins and Olympia J. Snowe, both of Maine. Only two Democrats voted “no,” Mary Landrieu of Louisiana and Harry Reid of Nevada. Mr. Reid, the majority leader, may have voted “no” in a parliamentary move to preserve his right to bring up the proposal again. In the House, meanwhile, Republicans pushed for consideration of a bill offered by Representative Mac Thornberry of Texas that Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican minority leader, said would offer real solutions to the country’s energy problems. Mr. Boehner said the Thornberry bill “will open new American oil refineries, invest in alternative energy sources and increase environmentally safe exploration of untapped oil resources in the United States.” Mr. Boehner was apparently referring to the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. “Where Democrats refuse to lead, Republicans will,” Mr. Boehner said, saying that Republicans would offer a series of petitions to try to force the Democratic House leadership to move on Republican proposals.
05.27.2008	Washington, DC – “For too long the federal government has been trying to balance the sky rocketing cost of Medicare and Medicaid on the backs of our doctors and medical professionals,” said Congressman Mac Thornberry. “If we want the medical profession fully in the fight against rising health care costs, the government needs to recognize the value of the donated services they provide and reduce the bureaucratic cost burden government imposes on our health care providers. That is why I have introduced the “Patient Fairness and Indigent Care Promotion Act of 2008” and the “Health Care Paperwork Reduction Act and Fraud Prevention Act of 2008.” share: f t Washington, DC – “For too long the federal government has been trying to balance the sky rocketing cost of Medicare and Medicaid on the backs of our doctors and medical professionals,” said Congressman Mac Thornberry. “If we want the medical profession fully in the fight against rising health care costs, the government needs to recognize the value of the donated services they provide and reduce the bureaucratic cost burden government imposes on our health care providers. That is why I have introduced the “Patient Fairness and Indigent Care Promotion Act of 2008” and the “Health Care Paperwork Reduction Act and Fraud Prevention Act of 2008.” The “Patient Fairness and Indigent Care Promotion Act of 2008” would encourage doctors to treat low-income patients by allowing them to deduct the costs of treatment as a bad debt write-off from their federal taxes. While this measure does not solve every problem, it is a fair and common sense measure that will help reduce overall health care costs and provide a needed community service. This measure may also help relieve the strain on emergency rooms by providing a fair business solution for doctors who have long been willing to provide care to indigent patients, but who have had no way of recognizing that expense on the business side of their practice. A 2004 study done by Harvard Medical School and Public Citizen found that health care bureaucracy cost the United States $399.4 billion in 2003. This amount of money would be enough to cover all of the uninsured and provide full prescription drug coverage to everyone in the United States. The “Health Care Paperwork Reduction Act and Fraud Prevention Act of 2008” would establish a Commission on Billing Codes and Forms Simplification which would make recommendations to Medicare and private insurance on uniform billing practices that would limit the amount of burdensome paperwork and also protect privacy. The Commission would also study electronic forms and billing practices with the same goal in mind. “It would be great to just pass a bill to cut health care paperwork,” observed Thornberry, “but it is a complex subject that does not easily lend itself to a solution imposed by Congress. That is why we need the first step of a Commission to bring Medicare and the private sector together to identify the best practices and find consensus on how to get them adopted across the entire health care delivery and health insurance system.” “These two bills are another part of what I call my ‘No Excuses’ agenda,” concluded Congressman Thornberry. “Congress must stop blaming others for the high cost of health care and energy. It is time to recognize that government-imposed costs are a big part of the problem. These bills are simple, commonsense steps to cut costs by treating doctors fairly and reducing unproductive government-imposed costs on doctors and patients.”
05.23.2008	The American Conservative Union (ACU) has named Representative Mac Thornberry (R-TX) one of the “Best and Brightest” members of the 110th Congress by scoring 100% on its ratings for 2007. “The rating of 100% Representative Thornberry received reflects consistent support for conservative principles across a broad range of issues,” said Larry Hart, ACU’s Director of Government Relations. “By comparison, the average score for members of the House for 2007 was 43%. Representative Thornberry is someone who grassroots conservatives in Texas and across the country will continue to look to for leadership.” ACU is America’s oldest and largest grassroots conservative organization. For 37 years, its annual ratings have been widely regarded as the “gold standard,” the definitive conservative assessment of the federal legislative branch. A complete listing of the ACU ratings for this and past congresses can be found at www.acuratings.org.
05.23.2008	Energy is not only critical for U.S. national security, economic well-being, and stability, but also important to the folks driving to work to provide for their families. For too long we have grown ever more dependent on unreliable foreign sources of energy. We have made it too difficult to build refineries and new power plants, and we have put much of the country off-limits to energy development. Dependence on unreliable foreign sources…. • U.S. consumes nearly 22% of the world’s energy but produces less than 70% of what we use. • We import 60% of our total oil and around 16% of our natural gas.i • Annually, the U.S. consumes about 7.55 billion barrels of petroleum products and 23 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. • Our 2nd and 4th largest suppliers of petroleum are Saudi Arabia and Venezuela. Tying our hands on energy…. • Federal lands are estimated to contain 31 billion barrels of oil and 231 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. 60% of these lands are closed to leasing making 62% of the oil and 41% of the gas inaccessible. • There are over 570 million acres in the Outer Continental Shelf that are off-limits to oil and gas leasing and development. The Minerals Management Service estimates this amounts to 17.84 billion barrels of oil and 76.47 trillion cubic feet of natural gas that we cannot produce. • Opening up ANWR could produce an estimated 780,000 barrels per day, over half of what we import per day from Saudi Arabia.iv • Regulations made it too difficult to build refineries – 301 operating in 1982, only 149 today. • No nuclear power plants have been ordered in the United States since 1978, and more than 100 reactors have been canceled, including all ordered after 1973. • The latest extension of the Production Tax Credit (PTC) for wind energy is only one year. More and more people recognize that conservation has it place, but until we produce more energy of all kinds here at home, we are only dealing with half the answer to our energy crisis. I have introduced H.R. 3089, the “No More Excuses Energy Act,” that takes some common sense steps to responsibly increase domestic energy production. H.R. 3089 will produce more energy at home by…. • Creating a competitive leasing program to responsibly drill on federal lands in Alaska and removing the congressional moratoria on drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf. • Encouraging construction of new refineries by requiring the IRS to implement provisions from the Energy Policy Act of 2005, allowing tax exempt bonds to be used for construction, and making use of federal lands for new refineries. • Expanding electricity generation by encouraging investment into building new nuclear power plants and boosting alternative energy development through wind power by extending the PTC for ten years. • Offering a tax credit for CO2 captured for use in enhanced oil recovery. This will not only reduce greenhouse gas emissions but also allow us to fully utilize our reserves. There is no quick or easy fix to our energy problem, but we can start here at home. Everyone understands supply and demand. In the past year, Congress has passed a bill to raise taxes on energy and to make production of domestic energy resources more expensive. Saudi Arabia has announced a hold on plans to further increase long-term production capacity from its vast oil fields, and unrest in Nigeria and other oil producing countries has shown how vulnerable supplies from those areas can be. In short, our own government and world politics are making supplies tight and artificially more expensive. We must unleash the creative power of Americans and unlock the energy resources we have here at home.
05.22.2008	As of 6:15 PM DC time, on Thursday evening, it is still not entirely clear how the parliamentary mess holding up the Farm Bill will be resolved. When Congressman Mac Thornberry was asked about this earlier today he responded: “Of course, everyone can make a mistake. What’s disturbing about this episode is that there was an attempt by the Democratic leadership in Congress to hide from the mistake, rather than stand up and fix it. Unfortunately, farmers, ranchers, and others involved in agriculture have to suffer the consequences.”
05.16.2008	Wichita Falls, Texas - Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today announced that the House Armed Services Committee has approved a defense authorization bill that includes funding for Sheppard Air Force Base. The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (H.R. 5658) was approved by the Armed Services Committee on a unanimous 61 to 0 vote after a day-long hearing that ended after 1:00 a.m. Thursday morning. The bill authorizes spending totaling $531.4 billion for the Department of Defense and the national security programs of the Department of Energy. share: f t Wichita Falls, Texas - Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today announced that the House Armed Services Committee has approved a defense authorization bill that includes funding for Sheppard Air Force Base. The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (H.R. 5658) was approved by the Armed Services Committee on a unanimous 61 to 0 vote after a day-long hearing that ended after 1:00 a.m. Thursday morning. The bill authorizes spending totaling $531.4 billion for the Department of Defense and the national security programs of the Department of Energy. An additional $70 billion in supplemental funding to support the operational costs of the war against Islamist terrorists and in Afghanistan and Iraq, as well as personnel expenses and procurement of new equipment for first few months of Fiscal Year 2009. $2.6 billion was authorized for state-of-the-art Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles; $947 million for Up-Armored HMMWV’s; and $2.2 billion for Abrams tank, Bradley fighting vehicle, and Stryker vehicle upgrades to further protect our troops from roadside bombs and ambushes. The bill provides a 3.9 percent pay raise for all members of the Armed Forces in 2009 and scheduled pay raises in 2010, 2011 and 2012 to reduce the military-civilian pay disparity. The bill also extends the prohibition the Committee enacted last year on retail pharmacy cost share increases for the TRICARE military retiree medical program. "People are our most important national defense resource. The pay and benefits authorized in this bill will allow us to continue to attract America's best and brightest to volunteer for our armed forces," said Congressman Thornberry, a Ranking Republican member of the Armed Services Committee, "and maintain the quality of life for our military retirees." Funding for Sheppard Air Force Base’s new $7 million base operations ramp was authorized and appropriated last fiscal year and is not affected by this year’s bill. When completed, the new ramp will improve safety and reduce the mixing of commercial and military aircraft operations. "Sheppard Air Force Base is one of America's premier military training facilities. The Sheppard community, both active duty and retired, will directly benefit from the pay increases and the retiree medical programs included in this bill,” concluded Thornberry, "In a year when much of the funding was focused on Army and Marine Corps replenishment we were able authorize an additional $3.9 billion for new airlift which should be good for the training mission at Sheppard." Thornberry said he was hopeful the House Leadership would bring H.R. 5658 to a vote by the full House before the Memorial Day recess.
05.16.2008	Amarillo, Texas - Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today announced that the House Armed Services Committee has approved a defense authorization bill that includes funding for Pantex and Bell Helicopter purchases. The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (H.R. 5658) was approved by the Armed Services Committee on a unanimous 61 to 0 vote after a day-long hearing that ended after 1:00 a.m. Thursday morning. The bill authorizes spending totaling $531.4 billion for the Department of Defense and the national security programs of the Department of Energy. share: f t Amarillo, Texas - Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today announced that the House Armed Services Committee has approved a defense authorization bill that includes funding for Pantex and Bell Helicopter purchases. The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (H.R. 5658) was approved by the Armed Services Committee on a unanimous 61 to 0 vote after a day-long hearing that ended after 1:00 a.m. Thursday morning. The bill authorizes spending totaling $531.4 billion for the Department of Defense and the national security programs of the Department of Energy. Bell Helicopter projects funded in the bill include a total of $2.8 billion for the V-22 Osprey, $645.5 million for updating the Marines' H-1 helicopters, and $271.0 million to continue research and development of the new Presidential helicopter. Bell Helicopter's Amarillo plant is the primary location for work conducted on the Osprey program. The bill calls for purchasing, per the President’s budget request for the V-22, roughly $2.512 billion in procurement for 30MVs / 6CVs and $ 365.3 million for research, development, test, and evaluation of the Osprey. The bill authorizes funding for the Marines' H-1 program at the President’s budget request for the H-1 program, roughly $474.1 million for procurement of 20 aircraft and $3.8 million for research and development. The Defense Authorization Act also provides $504 million for Pantex. That total includes an additional $10 million above the President's request added by the Strategic Forces Subcommittee, of which Congressman Thornberry is a member, to address urgent maintenance needs at the plant. "The highly skilled workforces at Pantex and Bell Helicopter Textron provide unique contributions to our national defense. I am pleased that I was once again able to convince my colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee that Amarillo is the only place in the nation where this work can be done," said Thornberry. An additional $70 billion in supplemental funding to support the operational costs of the war against Islamist terrorists and in Afghanistan and Iraq, as well as personnel expenses and procurement of new equipment for first few months of Fiscal Year 2009. $2.6 billion was authorized for state-of-the-art Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles; $947 million for Up-Armored HMMWV’s; and $2.2 billion for Abrams tank, Bradley fighting vehicle, and Stryker vehicle upgrades to further protect our troops from roadside bombs and ambushes. The bill provides a 3.9 percent pay raise for all members of the Armed Forces in 2009 and scheduled pay raises in 2010, 2011 and 2012 to reduce the military-civilian pay disparity. The bill also extends the prohibition the Committee enacted last year on retail pharmacy cost share increases for the TRICARE military retiree medical program. "People are our most important national defense resource. The pay and benefits authorized in this bill will allow us to continue to attract America's best and brightest to volunteer for our Armed Forces," said Congressman Thornberry, a Ranking Republican member of the Armed Services Committee, "and maintain the quality of life for our military retirees." Thornberry said he was hopeful the House Leadership would bring H.R. 5658 to a vote by the full House before the Memorial Day recess.
05.14.2008	Washington, DC – Congressman Mac Thornberry today voted in favor of the 2008 Farm Bill. “A year after this bill should have been passed the Democratic Leadership in the House finally allowed the bill to come to a vote,” said Thornberry. “This is clearly not the Farm Bill I would have written, but with crops already in the ground producers deserve the certainty this bill provides.” share: f t Washington, DC – Congressman Mac Thornberry today voted in favor of the 2008 Farm Bill. “A year after this bill should have been passed the Democratic Leadership in the House finally allowed the bill to come to a vote,” said Thornberry. “This is clearly not the Farm Bill I would have written, but with crops already in the ground producers deserve the certainty this bill provides.” Thornberry, a rancher from Donley County, noted that, “As fewer and fewer Members of Congress are personally involved in agriculture, or represent Districts where agriculture is the dominant industry in the economy, more provisions that have nothing to do with production agriculture have crept into the Farm Bill. This is a bad precedent for future Farm Bills.” Thornberry cited special interest earmarks benefiting the salmon fishing industry, a ski resort in Vermont, and other non-agricultural interests as problems with the conference committee report on the bill. “We had a good group of Members from Texas and Oklahoma working on this bill, producers by-and-large favored it and I think given the election year politics in Washington this was as good a bill as we were going to be able to pass,” concluded Thornberry. “This bill will help give farmers and ranchers the tools they need to stay on their land to keep producing America’s food and fiber in a very competitive world market. However, I remain concerned that, despite today’s high commodity prices, farm margins remain tight due to skyrocketing input costs, particularly costs related to oil and energy. The House Leadership must take action on energy; getting gas prices down will help farmers, ranchers and all of us who live in rural America.”
05.08.2008	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities marked up the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009, legislation which authorizes budget authority for the Department of Defense and the national security programs within the Department of Energy. Subcommittee Ranking Republican Mac Thornberry (R-TX) released the following opening statement: share: f t Opening Statement for Subcommittee Markup of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities marked up the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009, legislation which authorizes budget authority for the Department of Defense and the national security programs within the Department of Energy. Subcommittee Ranking Republican Mac Thornberry (R-TX) released the following opening statement: “Thank you Mr. Chairman. I appreciate and would like to thank you for the bipartisanship you have fostered on this subcommittee. I realize there are not as many partisan differences on this subcommittee as elsewhere, but I still believe that if the rest of Congress operated more like this subcommittee operates that Congress and the country would be better off. “I too appreciate the work of all the subcommittee members—each of whom brings unique insights and, I think, a similar commitment to our country’s security. As you mentioned, whether in briefings and hearings here in Washington or traveling in Iraq, Afghanistan or elsewhere around the world, I think each Member makes a contribution, and each Member tries to put the country’s interest first. “Like you Mr. Chairman, I appreciate very much the capable staff who works with us and for us in meeting our responsibilities. “I want to take a moment just to acknowledge, as well, that this is the last markup for the person I consider the father of this subcommittee, the gentleman from New Jersey, Mr. Saxton. His leadership, foresight and commitment in pushing to create this subcommittee to begin with, as well as leading it for the first four years of its existence, blazed a trail that the rest of us can only hope to follow. And, we in this subcommittee and in this Congress are certainly going to miss him. “I also appreciate you and the staff in the hearings that we had. Recognizing that we cannot defeat terrorists with bullets alone, we’ve explored strategic communications as a tool to help fight the war of ideas. Acknowledging that we must be prepared for a wide variety of security challenges, we focused on science and technology for irregular warfare. Knowing that we confront new domains on warfare, we pushed forward on cyber security. Wanting to give our troops every tool and advantage, we learned more about human terrain activities that could have an impact, as you mentioned. “We had a number of classified briefings as well, but I think the substance of the information we had gathered one way or another has been tremendously helpful to this subcommittee. “Coming to the mark, I support this mark for what it does for our troops and our country. As you mentioned, it enables the Special Operations Command Forces to remain on the cutting edge of our fight against terrorists with the equipment, resources and authorities they need. It supports the research activities of DARPA and the services, which are the foundation for our future military, and thus the foundation of our future security. It makes decisions in a host of other areas from information technology, chem-bio defense, force protection and homeland defense that I think are good and responsible decisions. “All in all Mr. Chairman, I think you and the staff have done an excellent job, and all members, have done an excellent job in putting this mark together. I think it deserves our support.”
04.28.2008	Normally I wouldn’t quote CBS News, but with oil closing at over $119.00 per barrel it is worth noting a recent CBS report on gas prices. How fast are gas prices rising? Well, according to CBS they’ve now nearly doubled in just over three years. A lot of folks in our part of Texas have been asking what Congress is going to do about high gas prices. Unfortunately it seems to me Congress is doing exactly the opposite of what it should be doing to lower energy prices generally and gas prices in particular. share: f t Normally I wouldn’t quote CBS News, but with oil closing at over $119.00 per barrel it is worth noting a recent CBS report on gas prices. How fast are gas prices rising? Well, according to CBS they’ve now nearly doubled in just over three years. A lot of folks in our part of Texas have been asking what Congress is going to do about high gas prices. Unfortunately it seems to me Congress is doing exactly the opposite of what it should be doing to lower energy prices generally and gas prices in particular. Everyone understands supply and demand. In the past year Congress has passed a bill, which I opposed, to raise taxes on energy and to make production of domestic energy resources more expensive. Just this week another Member of Congress announced a plan to make drilling in parts of the Gulf of Mexico off limits. Saudi Arabia has announced a hold on plans to further increase long-term production capacity from its vast oil fields, and unrest in Nigeria and other oil producing countries has shown how vulnerable supplies from those areas can be. In short, our own government and world politics are making supplies tight and artificially more expensive. Between price and the use of alternative fuels U.S. oil consumption is projected to fall by as much as 2% over the next year, but world demand during the next five years is projected to rise about 30%. Meaning that while supplies are going down or suffering from artificial inflation through new taxes, demand due to the growing energy consumption of such nations as China and India is increasing, despite our efforts to reduce consumption here in America. The result is a "perfect storm" of falling world supply, rising world demand, and rising taxes driving prices up for average Americans. What’s worse there are some who appear to be quietly happy with this situation believing that rising prices in America will discourage fossil fuel consumption and reduce global warming. My approach to solving our energy supply problem is to increase production of ALL types of energy here in America. Until we produce more energy of all kinds here at home we will be at the mercy of unstable overseas producers and in daily competition with the emerging economies of China and India. I’ve written to you before about the "No Excuses Energy Act" and I’m honored to report that slowly, but surely, this approach is gaining support. To-date 23 Members of Congress have signed on as cosponsors of the bill and there continues to be media attention as more and more people recognize that conservation has its place, but until we increase domestic supply of ALL types of energy we are only dealing with half the answer to our energy crisis.
04.18.2008	Thornberry says U.S. ranchers and beef producers, who have been eager to provide high quality U.S. beef to Korean consumers, will again have access to the Korean beef market. According to the office of the U.S. Trade Representative, prior to discovery of BSE in the U.S. in December 2003, South Korea was the third-largest market for U.S. beef and beef variety meat exports, valued annually at $815 million; about 60% of it was bone-in product - beef ribs. On April 18, 2008 the United States and the Republic of Korea concluded an agreement to fully reopen South Korea's market to all U.S. beef and beef products consistent with international standards and the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE) guidelines. The agreement will also put U.S. beef in a preferential competitive position relative to third country beef exports to South Korea. George Rasley FACT SHEET ON KOREA BEEF PROTOCOL The United States and Korea concluded an agreement on April 18, 2008 to fully reopen South Korea's market to all U.S. beef and beef products consistent with international standards and the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE) guidelines. Click here for more from the office of the U.S. Trade Representative Before the Korean market was closed to U.S. beef and beef products in December 2003, following the detection of a case of BSE in Washington State, Korea was the third largest - and growing - export market for U.S. beef and beef products with annual sales of $815 million in 2003. Once the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA) is ratified and implemented and the current 40 percent tariff on U.S. beef is fully lifted, the FTA is expected to generate annual tariff savings of approximately $500 million a year for U.S beef exporters based on 2003 trade volumes alone. In addition, KORUS will put U.S. beef in a preferential competitive position relative to third country beef exports to South Korea. Benefits to American Ranchers • U.S. ranchers and beef producers, who have been eager to provide high quality U.S. beef to Korean consumers, will again have access to the Korean beef market. Benefits for Korean Consumers • Korean consumers will again have access to safe, affordable, high-quality U.S. beef at a time when global commodity prices are increasing. Major Obstacle to KORUS FTA Removed • With this full resumption of U.S. beef exports to South Korea, the major obstacle to Congressional consideration of the KORUS FTA has been removed. • The resolution of this long-standing trade issue will lay the groundwork for benefits to the U.S. beef industry due to the tariff cuts and increased market access provided for under the KORUS FTA. The International Trade Commission estimates that under the KORUS FTA, U.S. beef exports to Korea could increase by $0.6-1.8 billion (58-165 percent). Main Provisions of the Protocol • OIE-consistent: The protocol establishes clearly-defined, predictable conditions based upon science and international standards. • The protocol should open trade in all U.S. beef and beef products from animals of all ages, including deboned beef, bone-in beef, offals and variety meats, and processed beef products. • The list of Specified Risk Material (SRM) to be removed is OIE-consistent, and includes tonsils and distal ileum from cattle of all ages and also the brain, eyes, spinal cord, skull, dorsal root ganglia (DRG), and vertebral column from cattle 30 months of age and over. This list excludes vertebrae of the tail, transverse processes, and spinous processes of the cervical, thoracic and lumbar vertebrae, median crest, and wings of the sacrum. • Under the protocol, Korea will reopen its market to U.S. beef from cattle 30 months and under, and will reopen its market to U.S. beef from cattle over 30 months upon U.S. publication of the enhanced feed ban rule, which has been under consideration in the United States for some time. • The protocol is designed to ensure both human health and commercial viability. The protocol establishes proportional responses to instances of non- compliance with the terms of the protocol. • Non-food safety hazards do not result in plant closure or suspension. • No market closures as a result of individual plant violations - only the plant responsible for violations will be impacted. • No "one strike and you're out" for individual plants. • Appropriate penalties for instances of food safety hazards ranging from rejection of a product lot to blocking the exports from a particular plant depending on the severity of the problem and the plant's previous track record. • Equivalence: Korea becomes the 63rd country to recognize the equivalence of the U.S. meat inspection system, which will simplify the regulatory burden on our meat-packing industry, with smoother and more streamlined import procedures. • Under the protocol, certain transitional confidence building measures are included. • During the first 90 days that the protocol is in effect, Korea has the option to audit and/or reject U.S. decisions regarding the listing of new plants or re-listing of previously de-listed plants. • During the first 180 days that the protocol is in effect, exports of T-bone and Porterhouse steaks need to include a notation on the box indicating that these cuts of beef come from cows under 30 months. • Consultative Mechanism: The protocol also establishes a consultative mechanism that will ensure that both countries will meet promptly to address and resolve differences that may arise in the implementation of the protocol. • Beef and beef products from all Mexican cattle, both direct slaughter and feeder cattle, is allowed under the protocol (Korea already imports beef from Mexico directly). • Beef and beef products from Canadian feeder cattle are allowed under the protocol if they are fed in the United States for 100 days. • Product that has been in the shipment pipeline will enter under the new protocol. Specifically, U.S. deboned beef produced for the Korean market under the previous and more limited protocol and slaughtered before October 5, 2007 that remains at Korea's port of entry or in storage in the United States will be eligible for inspection by Korean inspectors. • With this protocol Korea joins a growing group of countries, such as the Philippines, Indonesia, Canada, Peru, Colombia, Panama, Guatemala, Honduras, Jamaica, Barbados, Jordan, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates that have implemented OIE-consistent import requirements for U.S. beef and beef products with regard to Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE).
04.17.2008	Texas Lawmaker Recognized for Support of Key Business Issues share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C.—The United States Chamber of Commerce today presented Representative Mac Thornberry (R-TX-13) with its prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award for his support of pro-growth legislation during the second session of the 110th Congress. “Representative Thornberry has proven to be an effective ally to the business community, supporting legislation that helps grow the economy and creates new jobs for hardworking Americans,” said Tom Donohue, Chamber president and CEO. “The Chamber is grateful for Mac’s commitment to these important issues and is proud to present him with this award.” Click to read the entire letter from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in PDF format.
04.16.2008	Washington, DC – Congressman Mac Thornberry today announced that the House has passed H.R. 5813 to provide a clean extension to the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 through April 25, 2008. “The new Majority in Congress has made a habit of waiting until past the last minute to pass important legislation and apparently this year’s Farm Bill will be no exception,” said Thornberry. share: f t Washington, DC – Congressman Mac Thornberry today announced that the House has passed H.R. 5813 to provide a clean extension to the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 through April 25, 2008. “The new Majority in Congress has made a habit of waiting until past the last minute to pass important legislation and apparently this year’s Farm Bill will be no exception,” said Thornberry. “For many farmers in Texas crops are already in the ground or important business decisions are ready to be made, they need to know the rules of the game,” noted Congressman Thornberry. “We are fortunate to have good Texas representation on the Conference Committee, but time is clearly running out for any of the new or controversial aspects of the various Farm Bill proposals to be resolved.” “I would like to be optimistic that between now and April 25 this will get settled,” concluded Thornberry. “But too often in this Congress what could be a good bipartisan bill has been sacrificed to satisfy the Majority’s appetite for more taxes or some partisan agenda.”
04.15.2008	"Unfortunately, the new Majority in Congress is not interested in real tax reform. Last month, House Democrats passed a budget that would increase taxes a record $683-billion on workers, parents, married couples, seniors, small business entrepreneurs, farmers and ranchers," concluded Congressman Thornberry. "I have a different approach. I have sponsored or cosponsored a dozen bills to rein in spending, hold the line on taxes and balance the federal budget. The people are demanding change and the Democratic Leadership in Congress needs to give these bills a vote to enact real budget, spending, and tax reforms." Thornberry Says Real Tax Reform Not On Congressional Democrats' Agenda Congressman Sponsors Tax Relief Bills Washington, DC - Congressman Mac Thornberry today marked April 15, Tax Day, by issuing the following statement, "In 2005 individuals, businesses and nonprofits will spend an estimated 6 billion hours complying with the federal income tax code, with an estimated compliance cost of over $265.1 billion. This amounts to imposing a 22-cent tax compliance surcharge for every dollar the income tax system collects. Projections show that by 2015 the compliance cost will grow to $482.7 billion." "American taxpayers are fed-up with the complexity and inefficiency of the current tax code," said Thornberry. "In fact a recent study indicated that 69% of Americans think the present tax system is unfair, 82% of Americans think we should have a single rate system that could be filed on just one sheet of paper and 65% of Americans think the Death Tax should be abolished." Thornberry is the sponsor or co-sponsor of the following budget, spending and tax reform bills: Balanced Budget Reform H.J. RES. 1, The Balanced Budget Amendment - Constitutional Amendment requiring the federal government to balance the budget annually; Spending Reform H.R. 689, the Legislative Line Item Veto Act - Allows the President to propose wasteful earmarks for elimination with the up or down approval of Congress; H.CON.RES.263, Establishes the Joint Select Committee on Earmark Reform; H.R.3654, Establishes a commission to develop legislation designed to reform tax policy and entitlement benefit programs and ensure a sound fiscal future for the United States, and for other purposes; Tax Relief and Reform H.R. 510, the Tax Code Termination Act - Sunsets the entire federal tax code; forcing Congress to debate and act upon a new tax code that is fairer and more equitable; H.R. 411, Permanently extends successful 2001 and 2003 tax relief measures like the teacher tax credit, child tax credit, state sales tax credit, and marriage penalty relief; H.R.25, The FAIR Tax promotes freedom, fairness, and economic opportunity by repealing the income tax and other taxes, abolishing the Internal Revenue Service, and enacting a national sales tax to be administered primarily by the States; H.R. 1586, a bill to permanently repeal the death tax; H.R.1366, Amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the alternative minimum tax on individuals; H.R.2158, Amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the 1993 income tax increase on Social Security benefits; H.R.3818, Amends amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the alternative minimum tax on individuals and replace it with an alternative tax individuals may choose; H.R.5109, Amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for permanent tax incentives for economic growth. "Unfortunately, the new Majority in Congress is not interested in real tax reform. Last month, House Democrats passed a budget that would increase taxes a record $683-billion on workers, parents, married couples, seniors, small business entrepreneurs, farmers and ranchers," concluded Congressman Thornberry. "I have a different approach. I have sponsored or cosponsored a dozen bills to rein in spending, hold the line on taxes and balance the federal budget. The people are demanding change and the Democratic Leadership in Congress needs to give these bills a vote to enact real budget, spending, and tax reforms."
04.09.2008	House Armed Services Committee Hearing On Iraq, Transcript of House Armed Services Committee Hearing On Iraq General Petraeus Testimony Ambassador Crocker Senate Testimony, Part 1 Ambassador Crocker Senate Testimony, Part 2 Hearing Charts Maps Congressman Mac Thornberry gets to the point at the April 8, 2008 House Armed Services Committee hearing on Iraq, "General, in your testimony, you talked about -- the gradual establishment of sustainable security in Iraq is vitally important to the citizens of the United States. And Ambassador, in your testimony, you said we have to be clear with ourselves about what failure would mean. The American people don't hear that sort of talk very much. What they hear is what happened today on the ground with this bombing or this suicide bomber, and that's if something happened on the ground. If it's relatively quiet, they don't get any news. And I think it's important for them to hear from each of you why Iraq is important, what we have at stake, not just what we're doing for them, but why it's important for us..."
04.08.2008	Transcript of the questions posed by Congressman Mac Thornberry, Ranking Member on the House Armed Services Committee Subcommittee on Terrorism and Unconventional Threats, to General David Petraeus, commander of Multi-National Forces-Iraq, and U.S. Ambassador to Iraq Ryan Crocker during the House Armed Services Committee April 8, 2008 briefing. THORNBERRY: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. General, today and some yesterday, there have been calls to declassify recent intelligence community assessment. And kind of left hanging is this implication that there's something radically different in this assessment than in your public testimony today. So I guess I'd just like to ask briefly, do you take intelligence community products into account in writing your public testimony? And is there's thing substantially different in that particular assessment from the thrust of your public testimony that you've given today? PETRAEUS: We do take it into account. In fact, you know, we draw very heavily, obviously, on our own intelligence assessments as well, but certain take it into account, and there is not any difference that I'm aware of, having looked at that fairly quickly, between what that says and what we have said. And I'm not the one who does declassification of intelligence documents. THORNBERRY: I understand. Let me go to, I think, maybe a larger point. General, in your testimony, you talked about -- the gradual establishment of sustainable security in Iraq is vitally important to the citizens of the United States. And Ambassador, in your testimony, you said we have to be clear with ourselves about what failure would mean. The American people don't hear that sort of talk very much. What they hear is what happened today on the ground with this bombing or this suicide bomber, and that's if something happened on the ground. If it's relatively quiet, they don't get any news. And I think it's important for them to hear from each of you why Iraq is important, what we have at stake, not just what we're doing for them, but why it's important for us. So I would invite you both to elaborate on the comments that you made in your written testimony. PETRAEUS: Well, again, Congressman, I think we have an enormous national interest in the security and stability of Iraq, with respect, as I've mentioned, to Al Qaida Iraq and Al Qaida in that particular area, the possible resumption of sectarian conflict that could not only engulf Iraq once again, but also potentially spread over Iraq's borders. Some of your members have rightly noted that there is already a humanitarian crisis in Iraq. There are already, by most accounts, somewhere around two million internally displaced and two million others displaced out of the country. That could get far, far worse. In fact, we have seen some signs of reversal of that, of the security conditions allowing some citizens to return to their homes and their families. Again, there is certainly a regional stability issue and there's, obviously, an issue in terms of the global economy, with Iraq being the second or third most -- the country with the second or third most oil resources in the world. CROCKER: Congressman, both General Petraeus and I have spoken about the costs of failure. I'd like to spend just a moment on how a stable and secure Iraq could transform the region. For most of Iraq's modern history, since the 1958 revolution, Iraq has been a negative factor for regional stability. And indeed, that revolution in '58 and our concerns over where it was going is what triggered the decision to send Marines to Lebanon. So over the course of the years, we saw the Iran-Iraq war. We saw the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, the threat to Saudi Arabia, Iraqi subversion in Syria, in Jordan, in Lebanon. We have an unbroken saga of destabilizing actions or outright military invasions. A stable Iraq, in my judgment -- and I've spent a lot of time in this region -- could be an anchor in the Arab world and the broader Middle East, and we could have a positive dynamic throughout the region that we really haven't seen for decades. I can't predict, you know, what the specific consequences of that would be, but it would be a far more positive dynamic than we have seen in literally decades.
03.25.2008	Amarillo - Congressman Mac Thornberry will host Service Academy Forums in Amarillo and Wichita Falls to provide information to interested students and their parents about attending the United States service academies. The Wichita Falls Forum will take place on Saturday, April 5 and the Amarillo Forum will take place on Saturday, April 19. share: f t Representatives from West Point, the Naval Academy, and the Air Force Academy will give presentations and answer questions. Staff members from Thornberry's office will also be on hand to explain the application process. The Forum is designed for potential nominees in their junior or senior year of high school, but all students, parents, and counselors are invited to attend. "Graduates of the service academies are essential to the continued strength of our Armed Services. As we fight terror at home and abroad, we must remember that the officers produced by the academies will be the future leaders of our troops. This is one of the reasons I consider nominating young people to our service academies to be a very important part of my job," Thornberry said. As a member of Congress, Thornberry is allowed to nominate a limited number of students for each service academy. Applications for nomination must be submitted to Thornberry's office by December 1 of a student's senior year. After reviewing Congressional nominations, final selections and offers of acceptance are made by the service academies. Nominees who are accepted by the academies receive a free education. In return, they agree to serve in the military for a minimum of five years after graduation. The schedule for the Forums is as follows: Saturday, April 5, 2008 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. Midwestern State University J.S. Bridewell Hall - Rm 108 Wichita Falls Saturday, April 19, 2008 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. Amarillo Public Library - Southwest Branch 6801 Southwest 45th Avenue Amarillo The news media are invited to attend. For more information please call Amarillo 806-371-8844 or Wichita Falls 940-692-1700.
03.19.2008	By Nancy Young “This congress ain’t doing much,” said 13th Congressional District Representative Mac Thornberry as he spoke to Hutchinson County residents at a Town Hall meeting in Borger Monday afternoon. Representative Thornberry is currently on spring break and he has returned to his home district to visit with his constituents. He expressed frustration at the lack of progress made by the U.S. House during the first 15 months of the current session. He said only 197 bills have been passed during the current session, and said many were inconsequential. Thornberry said that about 40 percent of the bills named a federal building, about 80 percent were so non-controversial that 10 or fewer people voted against them. “This tells you Congress isn’t doing much,” said Thornberry.
03.13.2008	Washington, DC – “The House Democrats’ budget is business as usual in Washington,” said Congressman Mac Thornberry. “The Democrat budget is full of promises that can’t be kept without the money to pay for them, and it uses the gimmick of ‘reserve funds’ to hide the truth that the only way to get that money is to raise taxes.” share: f t Washington, DC – “The House Democrats’ budget is business as usual in Washington,” said Congressman Mac Thornberry. “The Democrat budget is full of promises that can’t be kept without the money to pay for them, and it uses the gimmick of ‘reserve funds’ to hide the truth that the only way to get that money is to raise taxes.” Thornberry noted that according to the House Republican Budget Committee the Democrat budget contains 16 “reserve funds” that call for an unspecified total in spending increases, if offset with commensurate savings or – as is far more likely – higher taxes. The only identified spending amount is a proposed $50-billion increase for the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). None of the reserve funds accommodates the health care proposals of the two Democratic presidential candidates. “We need to be serious about confronting our budget and economic problems, not play more Washington games,” said Thornberry. “The Democratic budget fails to address our energy supply problems, fails to fully budget for Iraq and Afghanistan, fails to rescue Social Security and Medicare, and proposes a record-setting ($82 billion) 1-year appropriations increase.” Congressman Thornberry, sponsor of H.R. 1586, a bill to permanently repeal the death tax, said “I have sponsored or cosponsored a dozen bills to rein in spending, hold the line on taxes and balance the federal budget. The people are demanding change and the Democratic Leadership in Congress needs to give these bills a vote to enact real budget, spending, and tax reforms.” Thornberry is the sponsor or co-sponsor of the following budget, spending and tax reform bills: Balanced Budget Reform H.J. RES. 1, The Balanced Budget Amendment – Constitutional Amendment requiring the federal government to balance the budget annually; Spending Reform H.R. 689, the Legislative Line Item Veto Act – Allows the President to propose wasteful earmarks for elimination with the up or down approval of Congress; H.CON.RES.263, Establishes the Joint Select Committee on Earmark Reform; H.R.3654, Establishes a commission to develop legislation designed to reform tax policy and entitlement benefit programs and ensure a sound fiscal future for the United States, and for other purposes; Tax Relief and Reform H.R. 510, the Tax Code Termination Act – Sunsets the entire federal tax code; forcing Congress to debate and act upon a new tax code that is fairer and more equitable; H.R. 411, Permanently extends successful 2001 and 2003 tax relief measures like the teacher tax credit, child tax credit, state sales tax credit, and marriage penalty relief; H.R.25, The FAIR Tax promotes freedom, fairness, and economic opportunity by repealing the income tax and other taxes, abolishing the Internal Revenue Service, and enacting a national sales tax to be administered primarily by the States; H.R. 1586, a bill to permanently repeal the death tax; H.R.1366, Amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the alternative minimum tax on individuals; H.R.2158, Amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the 1993 income tax increase on Social Security benefits; H.R.3818, Amends amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the alternative minimum tax on individuals and replace it with an alternative tax individuals may choose; H.R.5109, Amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for permanent tax incentives for economic growth. “The federal government should only tax what is necessary to perform its constitutional functions. When the budget comes up I always try to remember that every dollar spent by the federal government is taken out of the wallet or purse of an American who earned it – a taxpayer who is also trying to feed a family, pay for health care, or send a child to college,” Thornberry concluded.
03.13.2008	Washington, DC - "Senior Citizens need to know how the tax rebates, passed to help shore up the economy, will apply to them. Social Security and veterans benefits recipients may face some unique requirements to qualify for the tax rebate. The update I'm sending out contains information from the Internal Revenue Service on how to receive your rebate," announced Congressman Mac Thornberry. share: f t Washington, DC - "Senior Citizens need to know how the tax rebates, passed to help shore up the economy, will apply to them. Social Security and veterans benefits recipients may face some unique requirements to qualify for the tax rebate. The update I'm sending out contains information from the Internal Revenue Service on how to receive your rebate," announced Congressman Mac Thornberry. Quick Overview of the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 H.R. 5140, the Economic Stimulus Act of 2008, provides temporary tax relief to many working Americans and Seniors. Most taxpaying Americans will receive $600 if they are single or $1,200 if they file a joint return, assuming they paid at least that much in federal income tax in 2007. Anyone who made at least $3,000 in income will receive a flat rebate of $300 if single or $600 if married, even if they don't owe income tax. If your 2007 Federal tax liability is between $300 and $600 (single) or $600 and $1,200 (married), your rebate will be equal to whatever you paid in tax. Anyone who gets a rebate will get an additional $300 for each child eligible for the child tax credit in 2008. To qualify, the child must be younger than 17 on December 31, 2008. When Will I Receive My Rebate? You must file a 2007 tax return in order to receive a rebate. The IRS will use your 2007 tax return to determine who receives a rebate and how much. The IRS will begin issuing rebates in May 2008, but if you don't file your 2007 taxes until the October 15 extended deadline your rebate will be delayed until the end of the year.
02.27.2008	Washington, DC - “At a time when energy costs are straining family budgets already, raising gas prices by raising taxes is the wrong thing to do,” said Congressman Mac Thornberry. “Raising taxes on energy will inevitably show up in the family budget as higher food prices, higher transportation costs and fewer dollars to invest in the local economy.” share: f t Washington, DC - “At a time when energy costs are straining family budgets already, raising gas prices by raising taxes is the wrong thing to do,” said Congressman Mac Thornberry. “Raising taxes on energy will inevitably show up in the family budget as higher food prices, higher transportation costs and fewer dollars to invest in the local economy.” “Everyone understands supply and demand, and adding taxes to something simply makes it more expensive to produce. Rather than taxing domestic energy production, as today’s bill (H.R. 5351) does, my approach is to increase the supply of all forms of energy produced right here at home. Growing our domestic energy production will reduce our dependence on unreliable foreign sources of energy, create American jobs, and grow our economy,” noted Thornberry. “The Democratic majority’s approach fails to produce any new American energy for American consumers. That means no new American-produced oil, natural gas, or coal; no new nuclear or hydro-electric power; and no new American gasoline refineries or power plants.” Thornberry is the author of H.R. 3089 the “No More Excuses Act of 2007” which includes provisions that: Encourage new refinery construction by requiring IRS to take action to allow tax exempt bonds to be used for construction of certain refineries, and make federal lands available for refinery construction. Reduce green house emissions by offering a tax credit for CO2 captured for use in marginal oil wells. Boost alternative energy development by extending the Wind Production Tax Credit for 10 years. Lift the Congressional Moratoria on drilling in along the Outer Continental Shelf potentially providing 17 billion barrels of oil. Open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to responsible drilling, potentially producing nearly a million barrels per day for several decades. Encourage investment in a much-needed industrial base for building new nuclear power plants by reducing the tax burden on that industry. “It is time for Congress to quit trying to blame other countries, or the oil companies, or anyone else for the decisions Congress itself has made. No more excuses! Rather than punishing American consumers with new taxes and regulations we need to act today to increase energy production here at home,” concluded Congressman Thornberry.
02.14.2008	Washington, DC - Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today introduced H.R. 5439 to strengthen and reform the federal civil service system. "The country is fed up with inefficient, ineffective government," said Congressman Thornberry. "The legislation establishing the federal civil service is over 100 years old. We will never be able to meet the needs of the 21st century and give Americans the service they deserve with a personnel system stuck in the 19th century." share: f t Washington, DC - Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) today introduced H.R. 5439 to strengthen and reform the federal civil service system. "The country is fed up with inefficient, ineffective government," said Congressman Thornberry. "The legislation establishing the federal civil service is over 100 years old. We will never be able to meet the needs of the 21st century and give Americans the service they deserve with a personnel system stuck in the 19th century." "Now is the time to act," observed Congressman Thornberry. "Half of all federal civil service employees are eligible for retirement within the next five years. That gives us an enormous challenge, but also a significant opportunity. Now is the time to reform the way we hire, fire, and manage federal employees for the good of the country. My bill will make it more likely that the 21st century federal government will attract America's best and brightest into careers of public service." Thornberry's bill is unique in that it creates a commission of experts to assist Congress in crafting a new civil service system and then propose that new system in a bill that Congress must vote up or down, in much the same way that the Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC) has managed the military base reform and closure process. Thornberry's bill includes provisions to allow the federal government to: Maintain high standards for employee merit and fitness Develop a fair management system linking pay to performance Have the ability to attract and rapidly hire highly qualified experts Develop a competitive system of recruitment that emphasizes filling skill gaps Focus on retention of high-quality personnel Conduct continuing education to maintain the quality of the workforce Have the flexibility to terminate inefficient or underperforming workers "We have a lot of good people in the federal government who work hard and are very frustrated. We have some others who are just biding their time," concluded Congressman Thornberry. "With a payroll of some $107 billion and a civilian workforce of over 2.7 million employees it is essential for the stability and prosperity of our country that the federal government attracts and keeps top quality employees and then is able to manage them effectively." (Footnoted copy of background attached in .PDF format) -30- What Others Say About the Need for Civil Service Reform "The organization of the federal government and the operation of public programs are not good enough: Not good enough for the American people, not good enough to meet the extraordinary challenges of the century just beginning, and not good enough for the hundreds of thousands of talented federal workers who hate the constraints that keep them from serving their country with the full measure of their talents and energy." "We have grown too accustomed to government reorganization occurring piecemeal. The government of the 21st century demands fast action and implementation..." Former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volker, Chairman of the National Commission on the Public Service, 2003 "This problem derives from multiple sources-ample private sector opportunities with good pay and fewer bureaucratic frustrations, rigid governmental personnel procedures, the absence of a single overarching threat like the Cold War to entice service, cynicism about the worthiness of government service, and perceptions of government as a plodding bureaucracy falling behind in a technological age of speed and accuracy." Senators Gary Hart and Warren Rudman, Co-Chairmen, U.S. Commission on National Security/21st Century, 2001 "Unfortunately, the federal government is not configured to offer the work young Americans want.... Agencies are struggling just to hold the talent they already have, let alone imagining a new public service in which expertise moves freely among the government, private and nonprofit sectors." "The federal government is losing the talent war on two fronts. Its personnel system is slow in hiring, almost useless in firing, overly permissive in promoting, out of touch with performance and penurious in training. And it lacks any system at all for managing the government's vast, hidden workforce of contractors and consultants who work side-by-side with civil servants." Paul C. Light, Nonresident Senior Fellow, The Brookings Institution, The New Public Service Civil Service Facts and Background Brief History The U.S. Code defines the Federal Civil Service as "all appointive positions in the executive, judicial, and legislative branches of the Government of the United States, except positions in the uniformed services." Today's civil service system was created in 1883 by the Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act. Prior to this Act, government jobs were given on the basis of a spoils system. Presidents and political parties hired government employees based on patronage, and an employee could be fired at any time. The 1883 Act ended this patronage system and began to award government jobs based on merit and qualifications. Now only certain senior civil service positions, such as high-level diplomats and heads of executive agencies, are filled by political appointees. In the Classification Acts of 1923 and 1949 developed the General Schedule (GS) pay scale for white collar personnel. In 1978 the Civil Service Reform Act brought modest reforms to the system, such as replacing the Commission on Civil Service Reform with the Office of Personnel Management and creating the Senior Executive Service and the Merit Systems Protection Board Report. However, almost 30 years later, much work remains to be done in updating the cumbersome, burdensome personnel system created in the 19th century. We must act to address the fundamental problems of our civil service system so that it operates with the flexibility and speed needed to meet employment needs within the government and effectively serve the American people. General Statistics Total federal civilian employees: 2,713,200 1.3% of the nation's workforce Average age: 46.8 years Average length of service: 16.6 years Bachelor's degree or higher: 42% Average salary: $61,714 DC metro: $$79,695 Average GS grade: 9.8 DC metro: 11.7 Executive Branch employs 96% of all federal civilian employees GS 1-4: 86,092 employees - below $29,769 GS 5-8: 389,544 employees GS 9-12: 575,678 employees GS 13-15: 364,785 employees - $66,951 and up Annual payroll: $107 billion Monthly payroll: $9 billion Half of the federal work force will be eligible for retirement in the next 5 years Failures of the Present System Slow HR Processes President in 2002 said it can take 5 months to hire a new employee and 18 months to terminate an poor performer Some agencies estimate it can take up to a year from application to hire OPM does not even track how long it takes to terminate a poor performer 3 months to fill a vacancy 6 months to promote from within based on performance 1 year for Top Secret clearance 5 months for Secret/Confidential clearance Poor Job of Recruitment Only 1/4 of 18-30 year olds say they would prefer to work in the public sector 54% of people would not recommend young people start their careers in government Difficulty with Retention Low turnover among middle- and upper-management But front-line worker quit rate is 10% Increased Dependence on Contractors 2005: over half of total government employees were contractors - 7.6 mil jobs Past 6 years: over 2.5 million new federal government contractors 1995-2005: the number of individual contract actions increased 600% More than half of all contract actions are no-bid
