01.25.2019	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after Speaker Pelosi, Majority Leader McConnell, and President Trump reached a deal that reopens the federal government by extending Fiscal Year 2018 funding levels through February 15. The agreement does not include funding for the border wall. “Ending the government shutdown is exactly what I, and House Democrats, have been suggesting for the last 35 days. I’m relieved federal employees will be paid—including backpay—and that critical government services and agencies will be at full operation. Now, Congress can have a discussion about real border security: effective, fact-based solutions that reflect our American values,” said Rep. Peters. Rep. Peters detailed what real border security looks like during the Weekly Democratic Address on January 11. Rep. Peters continued, “We’ve always had the solution: House Republicans could have brought the Senate-passed bill to a vote in December. Instead, they chose to hold the government hostage to Trump’s wasteful wall. We can never allow government funding to lapse again because of a debate over a border wall. I hope we can continue the constructive dialogue that yielded this deal as the House, Senate, and president negotiate funding for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2019. Ideally, we would return to responsible yearly budgeting to give certainty to federal agencies, government workers, and the American people.” The agreement includes the creation of a conference committee to determine what resources may be needed to bolster the southern border. Rep. Peters voted eleven times to reopen the government before this agreement.
01.23.2019	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted to reopen the government on the 33rd day of the partial government shutdown. The first bill provides short-term funding for all shuttered agencies through February 28th. The second bill funds shuttered agencies through the fiscal year at spending levels negotiated by the House and Senate, but does not include funding for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The House expects to vote on another short-term spending bill for DHS tomorrow. “When President Trump says Democrats are not interested in protecting the American people, he’s wrong. Today we funded agencies and programs critical to our national security and public safety: the FBI, the Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence, local police grants, the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area program, and more. These agencies are unfunded because our president is ‘proud’ of a shutdown and refuses to accept our solutions to get the government working again—even ones that invest in security. Federal workers are about to miss their second paycheck and the American people are not able to access federal programs and services they need. Hardworking Americans should not have to worry about feeding their families, finding housing, filing their taxes, or accessing the Internet. They should expect clean water, access to National Parks, fire management, and infrastructure investments from their government. It’s time for the Senate and president to put the American people first—as they were elected to do—and end the shutdown,” said Rep. Peters. Agencies and programs funded by the spending bills include: SNAP program Rural broadband expansion Land and Water Conservation Fund Water and waste disposal infrastructure Food and Drug Administration food inspections Flood insurance Humanitarian and disaster assistance Refugee assistance
01.22.2019	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted to reaffirm the United States’ membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and to prohibit the Trump Administration from withdrawing from the alliance. The bipartisan NATO Support Act reaffirms the importance of the nearly seven decades old alliance that has ushered in peace and stability across the Atlantic Ocean, and underscores congressional support for NATO. “When President Trump was first inaugurated, I highlighted where I would draw the line during his administration, including any attempts to weaken our national strength abroad. Alarmingly, President Trump has repeatedly threatened to withdraw the United States from NATO, undermining our nation’s global standing, a move which would cede American leadership abroad. This vote is as much about American security as it is about European security. “I am committed to our NATO allies, who have fostered international security, trade, and innovation. The House will continue to fight as the president contemplates abandoning our international partnerships,” said Rep. Peters. In 2017, Rep. Peters wrote an op-ed in the San Diego Union-Tribune highlighting how he would engage with the Trump Administration. He remains committed to these principles.
01.16.2019	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted to fund emergency relief for disasters that ravaged communities across the country in 2017 and 2018, including wildfires, which devastated parts of California. The bill allocates more than $12 billion to address the damage from natural disasters, including $1.7 billion for the Department of Transportation to repair federal highway and bridge damages, $447 million to repair and reconstruct Coast Guard facilities, and $128 million for the Department of the Interior to repair damages to national parks. The bill also includes $720 million for the U.S. Forest Service to replenish funds that were redirected from other priorities to fight fires. “California just experienced the worst wildfires in our state’s history. Across the nation, other natural disasters have damaged communities, wrecked livelihoods, and harmed some of our nation’s most pristine national parks. Today, we helped California and other states plagued by wildfires to have tools to implement mitigation plans—not just borrow money intended to prevent future fires to fight today’s fires. This funding ensures our coasts, inlands, and communities are resilient and directs planning to make them stronger in the face of these natural disasters. “We also voted to reopen the government—once again—so all federal agencies can get back to work serving the American people, especially the communities that need this disaster funding. My Democratic colleagues and I continue to provide options to open the government while Republicans have let the shutdown continue for 26 days. The White House and the Senate must come to the table for reasonable negotiations and quit holding the paychecks of federal workers hostage,” said Rep. Peters. Earlier this week, Rep. Peters recommitted to ending the shutdown and provide funding to government agencies still unfunded. On the first day of the 116th Congress, Rep. Peters voted to reopen the government and fund the Department of Homeland Security until February 8. He also voted to reopen the government with individual spending bills for the unfunded agencies. The Senate has not considered any of these funding bills.
01.15.2019	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after declining President Trump’s invitation to the White House amid the ongoing government shutdown: “Our priority should be to re-open the government, so it can fully serve the American people. Then, we can have a serious discussion about real solutions to border security. I’m not interested in a photo op while Americans are hurting from the longest shutdown in our nation’s history. I’ve met with President Trump before to advocate for San Diego’s border economy, defend Dreamers, and explain that technology upgrades are the best investment in border security—but that wasn’t during a month-long government shutdown. The shutdown can end with a vote in the Senate and a signature by the president. The House has presented multiple options to get furloughed employees back to work and open shuttered agencies. Republicans are out of excuses. Until they act, they own this.” Rep. Peters also sent a letter to the president to officially decline the invitation until the government shutdown ends.
01.14.2019	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) returned to Washington, D.C, recommitted to ending the destructive government shutdown as the one year anniversary of the three-day Republican shutdown in January 2018 nears. House Democrats voted to reopen the government multiple times since the new session of Congress began, providing full fiscal year funding to the agencies shuttered by the lapse in government funding. The House also passed a short-term spending bill for the Department of Homeland Security, funding the agency through February 8. “It’s Day 24 of the shutdown and I’ve returned to Washington to get the government working again. In last week’s Weekly Democratic Address, I called on President Trump and Senator McConnell to reopen the government, talk about sensible, cost-effective border security measures supported by both parties, and quit holding the paychecks of 800,000 federal workers hostage to a wall that is never going to get built. “Democrats continue to provide reasonable options to reopen the government. Republicans are voting to keep the shutdown in place—or, in the case of Majority Leader McConnell, doing nothing at all. “The Trump Shutdown has hurt hardworking families and it is only getting worse: The IRS is not operating at full capacity as we enter tax season, airports are closing security lines as TSA agents call out sick, millions of families are getting their last SNAP benefits for the foreseeable future, the FDA is stopping routine food inspections, and our National Parks are becoming unsanitary and dangerous. “President Trump’s temper tantrum has gone on for too long and the American people are the ones suffering. I will continue to do what’s right and vote to re-open the government however many times it takes—without irresponsibility spending billions on a borderline crazy wall. Now, it’s time for the Senate and White House to come to the table,” said Rep. Peters. Last week, Rep. Peters delivered the Weekly Democratic Address, remarking that both Republicans and Democrats agree on border security measures, but calling for the focus to remain on reopening the government. On the first day of the 116th Congress, Rep. Peters voted to reopen the government and fund the Department of Homeland Security until February 8. The Senate has not considered either funding bill. This week, the House is expected to vote on additional funding bills to immediately reopen the government without funding the border wall. Rep. Peters intends to support those measures.
01.11.2019	Congressman Scott Peters of California delivered the Weekly Democratic Address. In this week’s address, the Congressman discussed Democrats’ support for smart, effective border security solutions and called on President Trump and Senator McConnell to re-open government now. Video and audio of the Weekly Democratic Address can be downloaded here. Below is a full transcript of the address: “Hi, I’m Scott Peters and I represent San Diego, California in the United States Congress. “When I first came to Congress in 2013, I asked the president of the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce in San Diego – who also happens to be the city’s Republican former Mayor and Police Chief – what’s the number one thing the federal government could do to promote job growth in our region. He said we needed to make a federal investment in critical infrastructure at our border with Mexico. “But this former Police Chief wasn’t asking for a wall. “He was asking for a gateway – a bridge, and improved customs facilities at the San Ysidro Port of Entry because long delays at the vehicle crossing were costing our region billions of dollars in economic activity and 60,000 jobs per year. “Working together, San Diego’s Congressional delegation, Republicans and Democrats, secured the additional $442-million in federal investment to modernize the San Ysidro Port of Entry. It is the busiest land border crossing in the Western Hemisphere, where commercial trade between San Diego and Tijuana is valued at $2.1 million per day. “Our nation’s investments in Ports of Entry support a thriving international economy. They also provide critical border security. Customs agents inspect, weigh and x-ray vehicles and bags. They make sure travelers have proper identification and valid visas – that they are properly vetted and screened before entering the United States. “215,000 tons of hard drugs were intercepted at ports of entry from 2012 to 2016. Agents at our ports everyday arrest criminals, seize narcotics and guns and deny admission to people they identify as a threat to national security. “That’s what real border security looks like, and I can tell you that San Diegans want that border security. But we do not want a wall. “In the last Congress, my colleagues Pete Aguilar of California, a Democrat, and Will Hurd of Texas, a Republican, proposed legislation with wide bipartisan support that included border security measures we could all agree on. “It would have directed Homeland Security to perform a mile-by-mile assessment of our entire southern border to determine the most practical and effective way to secure it, and to offer Congress a strategy for each section of the border. “It might be state-of-the-art technologies to detect tunnels because even in places where we have a fence, as we do in San Diego, it’s easy to dig tunnels underneath. “It might be sensors and radar to spot moving people and objects in any weather or time of day. “It might be cameras mounted on drones to surveil places where the terrain is tough to monitor. “Or, it might be, a physical barrier, such as a levee or fence if that makes sense in some places. But if Homeland Security wanted to recommend something as expensive as a wall in a particular place, they’d have to justify the extra expense against other less costly tools. “In the last Congress, 193 Congressional Democrats and 23 Republicans acted to force a vote on these smart approaches to border security. But unfortunately, Republican leadership did not allow a vote on our bipartisan bill, but I bet most Democrats would support these measures in this Congress this year. “So, when President Trump says Democrats are against border security and for open borders, he’s lying. “We do not support a multi-billion dollar wall that will destroy sensitive lands, take private property, and can be tunneled under, climbed over or cut through, all while illegal border crossings have steadily declined over the past two decades. No. That’s not border security. That’s borderline crazy. “The one truth the President did state is that there is a crisis at the border. “There is a humanitarian crisis created by him. “It’s a crisis when the President threatens to shut down the nation’s legal immigration and asylum process over a border wall that is really just a campaign gimmick. “It a crisis when the President spends 72 million of your tax dollars to send our military to the border to confront a threat that didn’t exist, like he did in November, as a political stunt to rally the base. “It’s a crisis when this Administration is allowing women and children – babies – to be dumped on American streets in the middle of the night with nothing more than the clothes on their back, without food, money, health screenings, or plans to get them to their destinations. “And there is a crisis when a government shutdown means that 800,000 federal workers are denied a paycheck this week, and now can’t pay their mortgage or rent, student loans, or medical expenses, hurting their credit rating because our President won’t budge on his impossible wall. “And by the way, this shutdown includes the Coast Guard, which is a cornerstone of our border security. How stupid is that? “Mr. President, Senator McConnell – Democrats have laid out for you several border security measures we can all get behind. Let’s re-open the government and talk about these ideas and quit holding the paychecks of 800,000 federal workers hostage to a wall that is never going to get built.”
01.09.2019	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted to protect the Affordable Care Act and coverage of preexisting conditions following the Texas v. United States court ruling, which declared the Affordable Care Act (ACA) unconstitutional. The measure, which passed the House today, explicitly allows the Speaker of the House to intervene in all court cases challenging the constitutionality of the ACA by highlighting the intent of the law according to Congress. The House’s Office of General Counsel can now represent lawmakers in litigation or hire outside counsel as this case continues through federal courts. “Over the last decade, Republicans have voted dozens of times to repeal the Affordable Care Act and rip away health care from millions of Americans. Now, with a new majority, the House can take action to protect the ACA—and protect coverage for hardworking Americans—while we work to stabilize the markets and ensure they are sustainable,” said Rep. Peters. Rep. Peters continued, “Republicans failed to pass their empty alternatives to the ACA, which the Congressional Budget Office said would cause 22 million Americans to lose their insurance, lead to skyrocketing premiums, and force seniors and veterans to pay more for worse coverage. When that failed, they turned to the court system, but we will not let them succeed. I will continue to oppose any efforts that rip health care from San Diegans and fight for more affordable and accessible health care, instead.”
01.04.2019	Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted to pass new rules for the operation of the 116th session of Congress. These rules will allow for more open debate, advance widely bipartisan bills to the floor, require bills to be published 72 hours before they are brought to the House floor, fast-track overwhelmingly bipartisan legislation, and prohibit members of Congress or staff from serving on corporate boards. It also bans discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity. “Congress works for the American people and we need rules to support that directive. That’s why I worked with the New Dem Coalition and Problem Solvers Caucus to negotiate rules that encourage open debate, give members time to read legislation we will vote on, and lessen the influence that politics has on policy. Voters clearly want change in Washington, and this package shows that Democrats are ready to hold the Trump administration accountable and get Congress working for the people again,” said Rep. Peters.
01.03.2019	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted to reopen the government by funding six appropriations bills through the end of Fiscal Year 2019, and funding the Department of Homeland Security until February 8, 2019. The bill would put 380,000 federal employees back to work, and ensure the 420,000 federal government workers who were working without pay will be reimbursed for the duration of the shutdown. “President Trump has held nearly a quarter of the federal government hostage in his ill-advised quest to build a wasteful border wall. That’s why on the first day of the Democratic-controlled House in the 116th Congress, I voted to pass a bill to reopen the government, and continue the conversation on border security with a bill that funds Homeland Security through February 8. “It’s a terrible disservice to this nation that the President has gone back on his word, and now refuses to negotiate at all. The only disagreement we have is on one item - the wall - in the budget for Homeland Security. Let’s fund the other departments through next September with the bipartisan agreements we already have, fund the Department of Homeland Security into February at current levels and reopen the government while we negotiate a solution to border security. The obstruction coming from the White House must not stand,” said Rep. Peters. The six spending bills fund the Departments of Agriculture, Justice, Commerce, Interior, State, Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, the Environmental Protection Agency, and other related agencies. Congress also considered a bill funding the Department of Homeland Security until February 8. The bill includes funding for various San Diego priorities: $15 million to address water and wastewater management at the US-Mexico border and may mitigate the Tijuana sewage spill $7.8 billion for Humanitarian and Disaster Assistance, which could be used for providing relief to families that may otherwise flee to America in the midst of tragedy $3.4 billion for Refugee Assistance, a boost of $73 million from last year’s spending levels $40 million for HUD-VA Supportive Housing (VASH) vouchers to address veteran homelessness $17.7 billion for the Federal Aviation Administration, including $750 million for infrastructure investments at airports for which San Diego can compete $2.6 billion for Homeless Assistance Grants $160 million for National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) climate-focused research $2.9 billion for state and local law enforcement, including $182 million to address the rape victim test kit backlog $100 million for the STOP School Violence Act to address school shootings $75 million for grants to improve firearm purchasing background checks $498 million for the Violence Against Women Act, funding programs that assist survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault $8.1 billion for the National Science Foundation $699 million for the Small Business Administration, including $241.6 million for Entrepreneurial Development Programs, whose funds support women- and veteran-owned small businesses across the country $4.36 billion for Wildland Fire Management, including wildfire prevention and suppression efforts $3.22 billion for the National Park Service, benefitting Cabrillo National Monument $425 million for the Land and Water Conservation Fund In December, Rep. Peters blasted Congressional Republicans for their willingness to shut down the government over a border wall. He remains committed to bipartisan governing solutions that are fiscally responsible and wisely use American taxpayer dollars.
12.21.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) opposed Congressional Republicans’ vote to spend more than $5 billion on a senseless border wall, jeopardizing government funding and operations. This reckless move could force 420,000 federal employees, including 54,000 Customs and Border Patrol Agents, 53,000 TSA employees, 42,000 Coast Guard employees, and as many as 6,000 Forest Service Firefighters, to work without pay during the holidays. The Senate is expected to consider this funding package tomorrow. “Tonight’s vote proves the spinelessness of Congressional Republicans, unwilling to say no to the President. President Trump is jeopardizing government funding over the construction of a wasteful monument to himself. “Last fiscal year, congressional Republicans brought five short-term spending bills to a vote, which failed to provide certainty to our military, research institutions, and federal agencies—and we still had a government shutdown in January. “Today, we find ourselves on the brink of disaster again. This President and his lemmings in Congress want to shut down the government and force 420,000 federal employees to go without pay during the holidays, all because Rush Limbaugh said so. “Every day I come to work ready to work with my colleagues to forge consensus and make government work. Today, I am horribly disappointed in my GOP colleagues who knew this was wrong but caved to this ridiculous President,” said Rep. Peters. Last year, Rep. Peters penned an op-ed in Pomerado News on how continued short-term funding bills of the federal government hurt San Diego, especially its military and defense sectors.
12.20.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) demanded answers from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) on why nearly $5 million budgeted for suicide prevention outreach was left unspent in Fiscal Year 2018, according to a new Government Accountability Office report. “The VA left millions of dollars on the table for suicide prevention outreach when 20 veterans die by suicide every day. How many lives might have been saved had they done what they were supposed to do with this money Congress provided? “President Trump has touted his administration’s commitment to reducing veteran suicide. He must hold his administration accountable for this callous dismissal of their sacred duty to care for our veterans. “As a member of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I call on the president and his administration to answer for the irresponsible findings detailed in this report,” said Rep. Peters. Rep. Peters called for more outreach and resources to prevent veteran suicide in a Veterans’ Affairs Committee meeting earlier this year, given the connection between veterans experiencing homelessness and suicide. Rep. Peters voted to provide the VA $206 million for suicide prevention outreach in Fiscal Year 2019. The VA recently started a suicide prevention program for veterans who have less-than-honorable discharges. However, a report from KPBS earlier this fall found the program had low enrollment nationally. Some San Diego veteran service organizations blame the program’s lack of exposure and promotion as a reason for low participation.
12.13.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) applauded the Farm Bill, which passed the House yesterday and invests in San Diego clean energy priorities including algae innovation and carbon capture technology. The bill included language from Rep. Peters’ Algae Agriculture Act, which makes algae eligible for the same investment opportunities as other agricultural products. Specifically, it directs USDA to include algae in its BioPreferred Program, which certifies and creates federal mandatory purchasing requirements for products made from algae, plants, forestry, agricultural, and marine materials. In addition, the Farm Bill provides technical assistance to accelerate research and investment for carbon capture technology, which uses algae to convert carbon dioxide and methane into electricity, heat, or fuel. The language mirrors Rep. Peters’ Carbon Utilization Act, a bipartisan bill he introduced earlier this year. “The investments made in algae and carbon capture technology today boost research and technology advancements happening in San Diego. Researchers at UC San Diego and Scripps Institution of Oceanography are leading advancements that deploy algae for carbon capture, sustainable manufacturing, and even therapeutic drugs. Now, scientists have even more opportunities to drive their discoveries. “Traditionally, the Farm Bill passes with broad bipartisan support and demonstrates that Congress can come together on issues that benefit Americans across the country. As a co-chair of the Congressional Algae Caucus, I advocated for algae research and innovation to support San Diego’s economy. This bill rightfully provides a vision for our future clean energy production,” said Rep. Peters. The Farm Bill also maintains current SNAP benefit funding levels, expands funding for food banks, and maintains conservation funding at current levels.
12.12.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) reflected on the third anniversary of participants reaching the Paris Climate Agreement: “Three years ago, the United States joined an ambitious global vision to combat the worst effects of climate change. Unfortunately, President Trump ceded America’s global leadership by withdrawing from the Paris Climate Agreement last year, abandoning our allies and ceding future jobs, opportunities, and innovation in renewable energy to other nations—especially China. “President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the agreement is still morally wrong and monumentally stupid. Other nations are discussing full implementation of the agreement and scientific reports continue to find we have limited time to make unprecedented changes and avoid extreme weather, rising sea levels, and ocean acidification. “Last year, I attended a global climate conference convened at the Vatican with Governor Brown and Scripps Institution of Oceanography’s Dr. Veerabhadran Ramanathan, where I urged the Catholic Church, and all faith leaders, to use their influence to convince lawmakers, like President Trump, there is an urgent need to act on climate. Clearly, we still have work to do, but I’m thankful House Democrats can make climate change a priority in the next session of Congress.” Rep. Peters, a former environmental lawyer and Environmental Protection Agency economist, was a featured speaker at the Vatican conference on climate last year and part of a Congressional Delegation selected to attend the Paris negotiations in 2015. He serves on the Energy and Commerce Committee, and is a member of the bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus and the Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition.
12.06.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) introduced a bill to help ensure that the federal government gets what it pays for on federal construction contracts. The Stop Unfair Bid Shopping Act (SUBS Act) would require general or lead contractors on projects valued at $1.5 million or more to list those subcontractors proposed to perform work valued at more than $100,000 as part of their original bid. If modifications are made to that original list after the contract is awarded, the lead contractor must notify the federal government of the modifications and disclose whether the change results in a change in project cost. This bill does not impede businesses from changing subcontractors after they are awarded a federal construction contract, but if the cost decreases as a result of that change, it enables the federal government to collect the savings. “Like any well-run business, the federal government needs to enforce our contracts and agreements. We also need to ensure taxpayer dollars are used responsibly. Private contractors should not be pocketing taxpayer dollars from a federal construction contract and increased transparency will help us be more accountable to San Diegans and Americans,” said Rep. Peters. Bid shopping happens when a business is awarded a federal construction contract based on a negotiated price that covers the labor and materials. However, after winning the contract, some businesses have swapped out to cheaper subcontractors and pocketed the difference. The bill ensures companies honor their contract with the federal government and don’t misuse taxpayer dollars. The bill does not apply to contracts awarded within the Department of Defense, but does include the Army Corps of Engineers. It is supported by the Sheet Metal and Air Conditioning Contractors National Association (SMACNA), National Electrical Contractors Association (NECA), and Mechanical Contractors Association of America (MCAA). “The officers and members of SMACNA of San Diego are proud to be the first local subcontractors association to support Congressman Scott Peters’ ‘Stop Unfair Bid Shopping Act of 2018, the ‘SUBS Act.’’ We believe it is time for Congress to take action to ensure fairness in the federal construction procurement bidding process. Many states, including California, have already taken similar steps to improve government-funded construction project procurement and SMACNA of San Diego is pleased to strongly support Rep. Peters’ SUBS Act,” said Linda Jennings, Executive Vice President of SMACNA of San Diego. “The Mechanical Contractors Association of America (MCAA) commends Congressman Peters for his discerning stewardship of government contracting resources - prudent private sector construction project owners have long been cognizant that guarding against prevalent abuses in prime contractor and major subcontractor selection procedures pay big dividends on their construction program investments. Minimum controls against bid shopping, bid chopping, and bid peddling are long overdue, and prudent ways to ensure top-quality project delivery, while staunching one of the prominent causes for ongoing projects disputes, claims, and delays - with consequent detriment to the Federal agency construction program mission,” said John McNerney, General Counsel for MCAA. “On behalf of the 4,000 member companies of the National Electrical Contractors Association (NECA), we are pleased to offer our strong support for Rep. Peters’ legislation, ‘Stop Unfair Bid Shopping Act (SUBS ACT).’ The legislation aims at addressing an abhorrent and unfair practice that is known all too well by our contractors, bid shopping. The reforms offered in this legislation are realistic, achievable, and fair to both the federal government and to specialty contractors. They do so while remaining equitable and reasonable to those acting in good faith. I commend Rep. Peters for his leadership and support on this issue and look forward to swift enactment of the legislation in the coming months,” said John Grau, Chief Executive Officer of NECA.
11.30.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) was elected as a New Democrat Coalition Vice Chair. The Coalition’s solutions-oriented mentality drives their commitment to collaboration and working across the political spectrum to find common ground. The New Democrat Coalition grew significantly with the election of dozens of new members this year and will be an important coalition as Democrats take the majority next session. “The American people spoke during this election—they want Congress to stop bickering and find solutions to our nation’s most pressing concerns. The New Democrat Coalition played a big role in flipping the House and as a newly-elected Vice Chair, I will help ensure that our focus remains on the people we represent. While we promote policies and legislation that boost economic opportunities, spur innovation, incentivize smart trade, and provide for our national defense, we must also keep in mind what those policies mean for the people back home. I look forward to energized conversations with my colleagues on how we can best deliver for our constituents,” said Rep. Peters. Rep. Peters will be one of five leadership members and one of four Vice Chairs. Read more about the New Democrat Coalition’s new leadership and members-elect here. The New Democrat Coalition is a group of more than 90 members of Congress who focus on economic growth, innovation, and fiscally responsible policies.
11.29.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) demanded the Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA) give certainty to veterans who received incorrect GI Bill payments after implementation of their new IT system caused delays. During a meeting of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, Rep. Peters questioned members of the Veterans Benefits Administration about recent reports that the VA would not reimburse veterans who were underpaid. Earlier this month, the VA assured the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee that they would retroactively pay veterans if they received less than what they were owed, which is contradictory to these reports. Rep. Peters pressed the panel, including Under Secretary for Benefits Paul Lawrence, about how the VA plans to ensure student veterans get the full GI benefits they earned under the Forever GI Bill. Under current law that took effect August 1, 2018, student veterans must be paid housing allowances based on where they take the majority of their classes. However, the VA did not implement these funding changes by that deadline and the VA has made conflicting statements about whether it would provide retroactive payments if students were shortchanged. Rep. Peters asked Under Secretary Lawrence: “Are you testifying right now that after VA finally implements [these reforms] in the law, and if [students] were underpaid, [you will] pay them the difference to make them whole?” After an exchange, Under Secretary Lawrence responded, that the difference between payments could be significant or minimal, and fixing the discrepancies could be more costly than the retroactive payments. Rep. Peters responded, “It sounds to me like you’re leaving yourself some flexibility whether to do that or not. Maybe you’re assessing whether it’s worth the trouble to go back and follow the law as written, but we’d like to know whether these people will be made whole by that formula, and I’m having trouble getting that answer out of you.” At the end of October, Rep. Peters joined his Democratic colleagues sent a letter to Secretary Wilkie demanding answers for the delays of implementations for the VA. Rep. Peters plans to send the VA specific follow-up questions in a letter with his colleagues that includes a deadline for the VA to respond no later than next month. Click HERE to watch Rep. Peters question the Veterans Benefits Administration.
11.28.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) announced an additional $80.02 million in FY2018 Capital Investment Grant (CIG) funding to San Diego’s Mid-Coast Light Rail Project. “I have been a strong advocate for public transit in San Diego and securing federal funding for the Mid-Coast Trolley extension from my time on City Council to today. This additional funding helps keep construction on track and the light rail on pace to begin service by its 2021 goal. Once completed, the new rail line will provide a backbone transportation service through the 52nd Congressional District, linking northern communities and Downtown San Diego, which is expected to attract 20,000 new riders per day. It will improve connectivity in our region, accommodate San Diego’s projected growth, and help us meet our Climate Action Plan goals. This cash infusion is the result of valuable teamwork among our office and the Department of Transportation, Senator Feinstein, SANDAG, and other partners in San Diego and Washington, D.C. I look forward to continuing our partnership and working together to ensure Mid-Coast’s success. We will keep fighting every year to see that San Diego gets the money we’re owed and the federal government honors their agreement.” Since 2015, Rep. Peters supported an agreement between the San Diego Association of Governments (SANDAG) and the Department of Transportation, which matches local funding provided by TransNet, with federal funding each year. The additional funding corrects a shortfall in the FY2017 appropriations funding, which was $74 million less than anticipated, and saves SANDAG $25 million in financing costs. The Mid-Coast project previously received $100 million in March of this year.
11.27.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement on the November 25 closure of the San Ysidro Port of Entry and the treatment of immigrants approaching the border: “I was extremely alarmed at the use of tear gas by United States border forces on families – including small children – fleeing violence and seeking a better life. This militarization, coupled with threats by the President to unlawfully bar asylum seekers, fueled the hostilities and confrontations over the Thanksgiving weekend which ultimately led to putting many, including our law enforcement officers, in danger. The $72 million spent on sending troops to the San Diego border would have been much better spent preparing for asylum processing and working with our allies in Mexico to manage the intake and sheltering of these refugees in a safe, humane, and compassionate way. “This chaos also underscores the need for comprehensive immigration reform to fix our broken immigration system. That would provide a legislative solution to the challenges we’ve seen over the last few months, like Dreamers, family separation, and border security, that is consistent with the rule of law. “We also must address the root causes of unrest and instability in Central America that lead families to flee their homes. Foreign aid investments to Central American countries are critical to improving economic conditions and lessening the political unrest and violence that drive people to our borders; they are also far more cost-effective than the billions proposed for an archaic wall.”
11.08.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement on the tragic mass shooting in Thousand Oaks, California: “I don’t have any more words to express the sadness of yet another community torn apart by gun violence. San Diego tragically lost one of our own last night: Justin Meek, a Coronado High School graduate. I’m thankful for the bravery of Justin Meek and first responders, like Ventura County Sheriff Deputy Ron Helus, who laid down their lives to save others. My deepest condolences go out to the all victims’ families and the entire Thousand Oaks community. For too long, these tragedies have been followed by silence; Republican leadership refused to let Congress act to curb gun violence. In January, the House has the opportunity to finally pass common-sense measures, like background checks. The Senate should do the right thing and also pass these safety measures that have the support of 90 percent of Americans and 80 percent of gun owners. Americans agree we need to protect our children at school, seniors at church, and fellow Americans in public spaces. We can’t stop every instance of gun violence, but if we save one life, it would be worth it.”
10.29.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released a statement following the devastating shooting in Pittsburgh, as communities across the country come together to mourn: “As our nation mourns the loss of eleven Americans killed in a senseless act of gun violence this weekend, we must all take a moment to reflect on how we can promote kindness, tolerance, respect, and dignity. We all must stand together in the face of hateful rhetoric, prejudice, and anti-Semitism. Whether you join a vigil like I am this evening, or take a moment for personal reflection, I encourage San Diegans and all Americans to consider what role they play in our nation’s dialogue. And I urge the president to consider his own role in creating an atmosphere of hatred, mistrust of others, and anger that incubates these horrific actions. The tragedy in Pittsburgh was motivated by anti-refugee rhetoric, and yet, the president is dispatching more than 5,000 troops to our border with Mexico, well over the number of men, women, and children who are believed to be in the first caravan, literally running for their lives. This action is more about politics than national security and it was exactly the wrong thing to do to diffuse hostilities. I call on every political leader — Republicans in particular — to urge the President to encourage calm, instead of inciting rage.” Rep. Peters will attend tonight’s Standing Together Against Hate vigil at Congregation Beth Israel at 7pm.
10.25.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) reacted to reports of explosive devices sent to Democratic political leaders and CNN in New York: “As Americans, we value civil disagreement as one of our country’s founding principles, but acts of violence are never the answer to ideological differences. The President has encouraged violence towards journalists, calling them enemies of the people, he’s refused to defend journalists abroad, and all but ignored the alarming murder of Jamal Khashoggi. Today’s attempted violence and threats to journalists and public figures are alarming for our safety and for the future of our country. We can have vigorous disagreements, without escalation to threats or violence, and still treat each other with respect. I call on the President to take responsibility for the words he has used which have likely provoked these attacks, I call on him to stop the irresponsible, reckless rhetoric at rallies and on Twitter that fuels these tensions and I urge all elected leaders—Republican and Democrat—to do the same.”
10.24.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) slammed President Trump’s announcement that he is considering pulling foreign aid from Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador in response to migrants currently in Mexico making a months-long journey toward the American border: “I learned U.S. foreign aid is essential to promoting stability, economic growth, and prosperity when I visited Central and South America in August and met with high-ranking Honduran diplomats and members of USAID; it is clear that cuts to U.S. foreign aid will only exacerbate the economic conditions that lead to unemployment and criminal activity that drive people to our borders. “The president has spent months demanding billions for a border wall, which will not fix our broken immigration system. Instead, we need to address the reasons women and children flee their homes in search of a better life. President Trump doesn’t have the power to unilaterally cut aid; only Congress can make funding decisions. I will continue to fight for the U.S. to support these important investments in the region,” said Rep. Peters. In Fiscal Year 2017, the United States foreign aid dedicated $538 million to Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala combined. The president’s border wall is estimated to cost upwards of $21.6 billion.
10.23.2018	Today, on the 32nd anniversary of the Tax Reform Act, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced he was named a 2018 Fiscal Hero by the Campaign to Fix the Debt, a non-partisan group affiliated with the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, for his commitment to fiscal responsibility in government. Peters is one of just ten members of Congress to receive this award. “Our national debt is too high to ignore. High debt levels shrink the economy, decrease budget flexibility, and increase the chances of a financial crisis. If we continue to make fiscally irresponsible choices, we will create a crisis for the next generation. San Diegans expect responsible stewardship of their tax dollars and I will continue to ensure Congress doesn’t sacrifice long-term economic prosperity for short-term political gains. Instead of passing reckless tax bills that explode the debt, Congress should use the creation of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 as a model of fiscal responsibility and collaboration. Today should be a reminder that real, bipartisan reform is possible,” said Rep. Peters. “Representative Scott Peters is one of the few members of Congress who is willing to stand up for fiscally responsible policymaking. It’s always easy to pass legislation with no regards for the cost or effect on the national debt, but Congressman Peters has shown real leadership by repeatedly continuing to press for policies that don’t dig our debt hole deeper,” said Maya MacGuineas, President of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. According to Fix the Debt, Fiscal Heroes “have distinguished themselves by taking fiscally responsible votes, participating in fiscally focused events, pushing their party leaders to make debt a priority, leading bipartisan efforts to work through policy options to fix the debt, using their town hall meetings to engage and educate constituents, delivering floor speeches to raise awareness about the issue, advocating to keep tough choices on the table, and introducing legislation to improve the nation's fiscal position.” Last year, Rep. Peters opposed the Republican tax bill, which is projected to add $1.5 trillion to the national debt. Since coming to Congress, he has called on both Republicans and Democrats to have a serious review of spending levels to reduce the national debt over time.
10.23.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced that portions of a clean energy incentive bill he introduced are now law as part of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), which approves and funds water infrastructure projects. WRDA included language from Peters’ Hydropower Permit Extension (HYPE) Act, which encourages greater investment in clean energy by giving already-approved hydropower projects a four-year extension if there are delays on breaking ground. “Hydropower is a clean, baseload source of energy that can help us meet our clean energy goals for decades to come. One project from San Diego’s cleantech sector is generating renewable energy to power more than 300,000 homes in our region, and developing innovative storage solutions. Giving hydropower projects flexibility ensures more approved hydropower projects, that already met high environmental standards, actually get built. Investing in hydropower is key to meeting our clean energy goals, and reducing harmful emissions that contribute to climate change. The bill also includes a section that directs the government to issue a feasibility study of the Tijuana River flood mitigation and environmental restoration, which Rep. Peters supported and helped pass in June. “This bill also includes a long-overdue study of the Tijuana River’s flood risk management and ecosystem restoration. It is huge step forward in addressing the environmental harm the spills caused San Diego and Mexico,” said Rep. Peters. Previously, hydropower project permits could only be extended by an act of Congress. The change will provide greater certainty for power supply and construction work for communities across the country.
10.10.2018	Last month, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) was named a “2018 Congressional Biosecurity Champion” by the Alliance for Biosecurity for his leadership on calling attention to the nation’s biosecurity threats, promoting health security, and enhancing federal preparedness and response programs. “We don’t know when public health emergencies will happen, but we know that they will. We need to close current gaps in preparedness that risk public health and national security in the event of chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear threats or a pandemic outbreak. San Diego just experienced deadly Hepatitis A and flu outbreaks that claimed hundreds of lives. As a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, I’m leading efforts to ensure we have the technology and resources to protect Americans from existing and emerging bio threats,” said Rep. Peters. In July, Peters offered an amendment in the Energy and Commerce Committee to restore funding for the Public Health Emergency Fund, which helps the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) detect, prepare, and respond to public health emergencies. Rep. Peters is a member of the Congressional Biodefense Caucus, which is dedicated to strengthening our nation’s biodefense enterprise and national security.
10.03.2018	Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) introduced H.R. 7022, a bipartisan bill with Representatives John Katko (NY-24), Mark Takano (CA-41), and Mike Coffman (CO-6) that will increase transparency within the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) HUD-VA Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) voucher program which provides eligible veterans with supportive services. “We need to better understand, and quantify, the challenges veterans face as they seek to use HUD-VASH vouchers for housing, particularly in high-cost regions like San Diego; to do that, we need greater transparency about the program from both HUD and the VA. Equipped with that data, Congress can make better policy decisions that get our veterans the housing and care they need,” said Rep. Peters. While some cities and states have declared an end to homelessness, defined as homelessness as rare, brief, and non-recurring, others have had less success. Last year was the first year that the number of homeless veterans rose since 2010. The Homes for Our Heroes Act guarantees that Congress receives reports on who receives HUD-VASH vouchers, studies the use of HUD-VASH vouchers in high-cost housing markets, and discloses how vouchers are allocated. Mental health care and other supportive services accompany rental assistance vouchers, providing wraparound services for veterans who use these vouchers. The bill is supported by the National Alliance to End Homelessness and the National Coalition for Homeless Veterans. “Over the past few years, our country has made tremendous strides in protecting our veterans from homelessness. However, overworked VA employees and a higher cost-of-living have led to certain programs becoming less effective. I’m proud to support this piece of legislation with my colleague, Rep. Scott Peters, to ensure that Congress and the VA have the necessary information to continue the fight against veterans homelessness,” said Rep. Katko. “Many cities, including Riverside, California in my district, are making great strides to combat veteran homelessness with support from programs funded by Congress. However, veterans across the country continue struggling to find affordable housing,” said Rep. Takano. “With veteran homelessness on the rise, I’m working with Rep. Peters and Rep. Katko to introduce the Home for Our Heroes Act to study the barriers that our veterans face to utilizing HUD-VASH and ensure that the HUD-VASH program can be an effective resource for every veteran in need.” “Helping homeless veterans is the right thing to do and caring for homeless veterans is an issue I have focused since my time in Congress. VASH supported veteran housing, adjacent to the new VA hospital in my Congressional District, will soon become a reality so I appreciate how important it is for us in Congress to better understand how, where, and when the VASH program currently operates so we can identify ways to make it more effective in helping homeless veterans,” said Rep. Coffman. “HUD-VASH has been integral to the progress made toward ending Veteran homelessness nationwide. This bill would provide important information to understand how HUD-VASH is distributed and implemented,” said Nan Roman, President and CEO of the National Alliance to End Homelessness. "HUD-VASH is one of the most effective tools we have to end veteran homelessness," said Kathryn Monet, CEO of the National Coalition for Homeless Veterans (NCHV). "Finding out where we can improve this key program is crucial to the long-term success of national efforts to place veterans experiencing homelessness into housing."
09.28.2018	Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) called for additional efforts to prevent veteran suicide and homelessness during a meeting of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee. Rep. Peters asked for more collaboration between the Department of Veterans’ (VA) and Department of Defense (DOD) to identify signs of trauma or suicide sooner and suggested improved outreach to veterans on suicide prevention programs, including veterans with an other than honorable discharge. “In San Diego, we know the challenges of getting veterans the care they deserve. We have the third largest population of veterans in the country—more than 235,000 call our region home. Veterans experiencing homelessness are particularly at risk of suicide—and most homeless veterans have suicidal ideation before the onset of homelessness. If we prevent veteran homelessness, we can prevent veteran suicide. “We should not make it harder to access care. Instead, we should be actively working to reducing the stigma to get help. I am committed to getting veterans the help they need, and I thank the Chair and Ranking Member for their attention to this deeply concerning issue,” said Rep. Peters. Rep. Peters was joined by the Somers family, who lost their son, Daniel, to suicide after serving in Iraq following post-traumatic brain injury. They are now tireless advocates for fixing and reforming the broken health care system at the Department of Veterans Affairs. Watch Rep. Peters make remarks before the Veterans’ Committee HERE. In the past year, Rep. Peters has passed two pieces of legislation that have become law, including one that boosts veteran peer mentoring that was included in the Veterans’ Affairs MISSION Act. He also passed an amendment that prohibits the redirection of funds intended to support veterans experiencing homelessness, which became law as part of the VA spending bill package. Since becoming a member of Congress, Rep. Peters has introduced legislation each Congress that would make June National Post Traumatic Stress Injury Awareness Month.
09.26.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass a bill to fund the Departments of Defense, Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education for Fiscal Year 2019. The bill also included a continuing resolution, which will fund the government through December 7. “Today, we funded programs and priorities important to San Diego that provide critical investments to boost our economy, support our military and servicemembers, and promote higher education. It provides a pay raise and increased funding for health research for our servicemembers, higher Pell Grant awards, and added money for new Littoral Combat Ships, F-18s, and F-35s. “I supported this package today to keep the government open because we’ve seen how government shutdowns devastate our economy, our military, and the American people. However, I still strongly believe that Congress must stop relying on these short-term fixes. They hurt our ability to plan for the long term, and in particular, it limits the ability of our Defense Department to carry out their mission. Last year, Navy Secretary Richard Spencer remarked that continuing resolutions have caused the Navy to waste billions since 2011: ‘We have put $4 billion in a trash can, poured lighter fluid on it, and burned it.’ This is not responsible stewardship of resources.” “Predictable budgeting ensures taxpayer money is well spent. Congress must provide certainty to the American public, our military, and our economy.” Rep. Peters voted to fund these San Diego priorities: $43 billion for new aircraft, including 93 F-35s and 24 F-18s $24.2 billion for 13 new Navy ships, including 3 Littoral Combat Ships and a new carrier 2.6 percent pay raise for servicemembers $34.4 billion for defense-related health programs, including $125 million for traumatic brain injury research $318 million for Sexual Assault Prevention and implementation of the Special Victims’ Counsel program $12.4 billion for special education state grants, $87 million more than Fiscal Year 2018 $1.3 billion for career and technical education, a $70 million boost from Fiscal Year 2018 $100 increase per student for maximum Pell grant award $3.78 billion, overall for opioids and mental health, an increase of $2.7 billion from Fiscal Year 2018 $5.3 billion for Child Care and Development Block Grants, $50 million more than Fiscal Year 2018 $39.1 billion for the National Institute of Health, a $2 billion boost over Fiscal Year 2018 levels, including $3.1 billion for Alzheimer’s research, $5.5 billion for infectious disease research, and $86 million for the Precision Medicine Initiative $725 million for Community Services Block Grant $7.1 billion for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
09.25.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released a statement following additional allegations of sexual assault against Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh: “The American public deserves the truth about the very serious allegations of sexual assault multiple women have brought against Brett Kavanaugh. These claims should be investigated by the body uniquely capable of providing that scrutiny: the FBI. The FBI should reopen its investigation to vet these serious allegations just as it did when Anita Hill came forward against then-nominee Justice Clarence Thomas. Judge Kavanaugh should welcome this non-political inquiry and be eager for the FBI to reveal the facts. “I joined my colleagues last week to send a letter to the Senate Judiciary Committee calling for a full investigation, and for the vote to be postponed until all the facts are known. This is a lifetime appointment and it should not be rushed. ”
09.21.2018	Earlier this week, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) visited Mira Mesa High School to share how Congress has evolved since our Founding Fathers established the Constitution and how it shapes our laws today. He was invited to participate as part of the school’s Constitution Day programming. Constitution Day celebrates the day the U.S. Constitution was signed by the Constitutional Convention in 1787. “As legislators, we have the privilege of working every day to make our nation better and continue the work of our Founding Fathers, who envisioned a country that strived for a more perfect union,” said Rep. Peters. “Throughout our history, we have fought to ensure every American is granted equal protection under the law.” Rep. Peters highlighted the inequalities still present, despite the equal dignity granted to every American by the Constitution. He spoke about the fight in Congress to reform our criminal justice system, defend marriage equality, and end gender discrimination. Rep. Peters also discussed his work on the Energy and Commerce Committee to define civil liberties on social media, including Facebook and Twitter. “We know now that a lot of Facebook ads were funded by Russia, who also had access to users’ personal information, so we asked Mr. Zuckerberg about this. Congress is wrestling with whether we should pass regulations for Facebook and Twitter, to protect the civil liberty and privacy rights of Americans,” said Rep. Peters. Finally, Rep. Peters shared how the Constitution is shaping the debate on divisive issues. He continued, “The Constitution allows California to lead the nation in environmental protections, gun safety, health care, and more. There are significant differences in the needs of urban and rural communities. California is not looking to export our gun laws to another state, but we don’t want their laws imposed on us either.” Rep. Peters speaks with Mira Mesa High School students about the Constitution and Congress.
09.19.2018	Earlier this month, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) was named a National Retail Federation 2018 Hero of Main Street, an award given to lawmakers who support policies that encourage innovation and a vibrant retail sector. The American retail sector supports one in four American jobs, and contributes more than $2.5 trillion to our country’s GDP. “In San Diego, we know that local businesses contribute to our lively economy and employ thousands of our families, friends, and neighbors. During my time in Congress, I’ve worked to empower businesses to innovate and continue to provide opportunities to promote the entrepreneurial spirit. Receiving the Hero of Main Street Award is a great honor, and I will continue to work with organizations like the National Retail Federation to support businesses and their employees across the country.” Rep. Peters has championed businesses during his entire public service career. During his time in Congress, he has introduced legislation that studies incubators at universities, visited businesses across San Diego, and advocated for changes to protect businesses against excessive lawsuits.
09.17.2018	Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted to fund critical programs as part of the Fiscal Year 2019 Energy and Water Development, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Legislative Appropriations spending bill. The bill includes an amendment introduced by Rep. Peters to prohibit funding for homeless veterans services from being redirected or used for any other purpose. The bill now heads to the President’s desk for a signature. “Yesterday, we funded programs and priorities that matter to San Diego, like funding for veterans homelessness and energy innovation. A bipartisan majority of Members also supported the bill, demonstrating that Congress can rise above the gridlock that has stalled important priorities. I am glad the Senate restored funding to renewable energy programs, like the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy and the Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy program, which were initially cut by House Republicans. This package will boost our local economy, fund energy innovation, and support veterans, servicemembers, and their families across the country,” said Rep. Peters. Funding and programs for the San Diego region include: $1.82 billion for homelessness assistance programs, including $380 million for supportive services for veterans and families, a $40 million increase from Fiscal Year 2018 Instructing the VA to work with nonprofits to more efficiently fund housing units for homeless veterans using HUD-VASH vouchers $8.62 billion for the VA’s mental health programs, including $206 million for suicide prevention outreach $1.1 billion for the new VA electronic health record system $20,000 for intern compensation for each House and Senate office over the calendar year $2.38 billion for the Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EERE), a $57 million increase from Fiscal Year 2018. EERE is a division of the Department of Energy that focuses on transitioning America to clean energy economy $366 million for the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E). The Trump Administration’s budget would have eliminated this program $1.583 billion for military family housing, including $401 million in military construction for San Diego County
09.17.2018	Last week, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) called attention to the ongoing government efforts to prevent and fight wildfires during a meeting of the Energy and Commerce Environment subcommittee on the effect of wildfires on air quality. Rep. Peters also asked the witnesses about the use of long-term plans for wildfire management, and what can be done to mitigate these deadly events. “Climate change continues to wreak havoc on communities across the country, including in California where wildfires are causing historic devastation. I’ve worked to stop the federal government from using money for fire prevention for fire suppression, which prompts a dangerous cycle because we are not as prepared as we could be. I asked the National Wildlife Federation how they would prioritize wildfire funding, and what can be done to moderate these ongoing threats,” said Rep. Peters. Watch Rep. Peters question Collin O’Mara, President of the National Wildlife Federation HERE. In August, Rep. Peters held a fire prevention and preparedness workshop with local officials, encouraging San Diegans to create fire plans and take measures to reduce fire risk.
09.13.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) joined his colleagues at the first meeting of the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Technology Modernization. The committee is tasked with a bipartisan review of the Veterans Administration’s (VA) transition to electronic health records and the facilitation of collaboration between the Department of Defense (DoD) and the VA, as active servicemembers transition to being veterans. “San Diego has one of the largest populations of veterans in the country who will benefit from health data shared among the DoD, the VA, and community partners," said Rep. Peters. "Bickering between the DoD and the VA and a weak governance body like the Interagency Program Office (IPO) means there is no one to break the ties or resolve the differences to move this project forward. That’s why as a member of this new subcommittee, I am dedicated to holding the VA and DoD accountable. Our country needs to get this right for service members and veterans. The right people need to be at the table to make sure veterans receive quality and timely care from two of the largest health care providers in the nation. “This new subcommittee gives the Veterans’ Committee an opportunity to devote more attention to overseeing this transition to electronic health records, spurring innovation in telehealth, and using new, smart technology in healthcare. I look forward to bipartisan collaboration and oversight as this committee continues its work.” Watch Rep. Peters speak at the first hearing of the subcommittee HERE. The subcommittee was established on July 12, 2018, and provides oversight and guidance as the electronic overhaul of these systems continue.
09.12.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) reacted to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) proposal to roll back a methane capture rule issued under the Obama Administration for the oil and gas industry: “The Trump Administration’s plan to relax regulations on a super pollutant that causes some of the most damage to our environment is particularly alarming as we continue to develop innovative solutions to keep our air clean. Instead of making it easier for these short-lived climate pollutants to enter our atmosphere, we should coordinate efforts between multiple levels of governments to prevent methane emissions or use them to generate new energy,” said Rep. Peters. “In San Diego, we know methane capture technology can be expanded and used to reduce emissions. Marine Corps Air Station Miramar is using methane from the City of San Diego’s solid waste landfill to generate much of its power. We need to apply this forward-thinking approach across the country. Sadly, this latest move by the Trump Admiration is a step backward.” Methane is significantly more potent than other greenhouse gases, like carbon dioxide. The Obama Administration’s guidance would have decreased methane emissions from the oil and gas industry 40 percent from 2012 levels by 2025. Methane is likely to escape at distribution places and connection points. Benefits of capturing greenhouse gases can be lost without capturing methane gases before they reach the atmosphere. During his time in Congress, Rep. Peters has advocated for methane capture and a greater investment in these technologies. Rep. Peters and Rep. Carlos Curbelo (FL-26) introduced the bipartisan Super Pollutant Emissions Reduction (SUPER) Act, and Rep. Peters and Rep. David Young (IA-3) introduced the bipartisan Carbon Utilization Act. Both of these bills would address methane levels in earth’s atmosphere.
09.11.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) reflected on the 17th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks: “Like millions of Americans, I still remember exactly where I was and what I was doing on the morning of September 11, 2001. Seventeen years later, the events of that day and the heroism shown by first responders are still etched in my memory. The American spirit of perseverance was visible in the bravery and sacrifice of firefighters and police officers who rushed to help their fellow citizens. Americans courageously joined our military in the weeks that followed and defended our freedom in the years after. “Today, we remember thousands of lives lost and the countless ones forever changed. We thank our law enforcement, armed services, and intelligence community who were vigilant and poised and remain so today, for which our nation is grateful. Our nation’s commitment to promoting peace and prosperity around the world should always be centered around democracy and our rejection of hate. Our resilience and determination shown in that tragic day and its aftermath demonstrate our tested values. This day is a reminder of our commitment to each other and our country and a call that we still need to live by those values.”
09.10.2018	Last week, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) was named a “2018 Beer Champion” by the Beer Institute for championing policies that support brewers and beer importers. Rep. Peters has called on the Department of Justice to investigate irregularities in aluminum prices that drive up costs for both beer makers and consumers. “San Diego is home to more than 130 brew houses and one of the most concentrated regions for craft brewing in the country. It’s how we earned the title ‘Craft Beer Capital of America’,” said Rep. Peters. “I have worked to eliminate barriers that prevent brewers and beer importers from expanding their businesses and creating jobs in our region. I will continue to support this industry that makes San Diego a great place to live, work, and visit— and ensure people across the country and around the world can enjoy delicious San Diego beer.” Last year, Rep. Peters supported the Craft Beverage Modernization and Tax Reform Act, which provided temporary tax relief to brewers and beer importers.
09.10.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted against the Community Safety and Security Act, legislation that expands the definition of “crime of violence” in the criminal code, making it easier for the Department of Homeland Security to deport legal immigrants for crimes that may not be violent or serious, such as fleeing and piracy. Legal permanent residents can already be deported under current law for committing a number of offenses, including aggravated felonies such as murder, rape, drug trafficking, money laundering, or theft. “This legislation expands the definition of a ‘crime of violence’ to offenses that are generally not violent, like fleeing or piracy. Under existing law, Immigrants who commit violent crimes like murder, rape, and aggravated assault already lose their privilege to be in this country, and are deported. I agree that would should clarify the definition of ‘crime of violence’; however, changing it to include non-violent offenses does not make us safer,” said Rep. Peters. “In addition, the GOP majority pushed through this legislation through without holding any committee hearings to examine unintended consequences that extend beyond immigration. Congress should return to regular order, allow members to propose amendments, and have robust debate about the serious policy challenges we face.”
09.07.2018	This week, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) joined his colleagues to pass the Empowering Students Through Enhanced Financial Counseling Act, legislation that ensures that students borrowing federal loans have the information they need to manage their student loan debt. Under this legislation, students would receive entrance counseling before they take out a loan, and annual counseling until the student’s graduation. “The burden of skyrocketing student debt is crippling young people trying to embark on their careers, their families and America’s economy. More and more young adults forgo investing in their first home, or buying a car, or taking a risk on new start-ups because they are saddled with tens of thousands of dollars in student loan debt,” Peters said. “This bill empowers students with the fiscal awareness they need to make smart choices and better manage their finances. I urge my colleagues also to consider a bipartisan Higher Education Act Reauthorization and act on other vital higher education bills that will help young people get the skills they need to fill the jobs of the future being created by the innovators of today. “While I’m pleased with its passage, I’m deeply disappointed that the GOP majority voted down an amendment I introduced with Rep. Conor Lamb that would have required the Department of Education to specifically address loan counseling for veterans trying to use the GI benefits they earned with their service to transition into the civilian workforce. Veterans are disproportionately targeted by predatory lenders and it’s shocking to me that my Republican colleagues weren’t willing to do more to protect the men and women who bravely served this country.”
09.05.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement one year after President Trump ended the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program without a legislative substitute: “It has been one year since President Trump ended DACA and we are no closer to passing any solution for Dreamers. He abandoned nearly 800,000 immigrants, including 38,000 San Diegans, who are our friends, neighbors, and coworkers by ending DACA. Dreamers still face uncertainty because Republicans in Congress have failed to offer and pass a solution. The Trump Administration’s disgraceful hatred and bigotry have plunged our nation’s immigration system into chaos and continues to hurt Dreamers and their families. In the last year, the Trump Administration has demolished these young people’s American Dreams. They banned immigrants seeking refuge in the U.S. based on their religion. They ripped children from their parents’ arms—hundreds of whom are still not reunited with their parents. They are threatening to deport immigrant parents if their children—U.S. citizens—access their federal benefits. Everyone agrees our immigration system is broken. Yet, Republicans have repeatedly failed to demonstrate leadership or willingness to work with Democrats and they tried to jam through partisan immigration bills that had no chance of passing. Congress needs to vote on common-sense, bipartisan bills, like the USA Act, which is a step forward to fix the immediate problems—protecting Dreamers and modernizing our border security. Then, we need to have larger conversations and work together pass the comprehensive immigration reform we need. America is founded on the promise that if you work hard and play by the rules, then we will have a place for you. We must keep that promise.”
09.04.2018	Last week, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) returned from travel with a congressional delegation to Guyana, Suriname, Honduras, and Brazil. He reflected on the trip’s main focuses, centering on climate change, immigration, and national defense. Rep. Peters joined Reps. Bob Goodlatte (VA), Steve Cohen (TN), John Rutherford (FL), Mark Sanford (SC), John Curtis (UT), Todd Rokita (IN), Richard Hudson (VA), and Darrell Issa (CA). “During my travels to Guyana, Suriname, Honduras, and Brazil, I met with political leaders and military officers, and visited military installations and historical sites, to better understand the vital relationship between the United States and each nation. Guyana and Suriname are covered with 77% and 94% virgin rainforest, respectively. As these countries continue to seek ways to gain economic power, they are working to balance economic growth with environmental protections, particularly since the discovery of a large oil reserve near Guyana’s shores. During our meetings with Suriname’s vice president, Ashwin Adhin, and Guyana’s president, David Granger, we discussed the global need to preserve rainforests and other diverse natural habitats, and expressed America’s desire serve as a partner and leader in international conservation. During the visit to Honduras, we discussed USAID and State Department-funded projects that provide essential economic opportunities to the region. America has a stake in seeing Honduras and other Latin American countries tackle the economic strife that leads to unemployment, illicit drug use and criminal activity that drives mass migration to our southern borders. The delegation met with the Honduran president, Juan Orlando Hernández, where we highlighted the importance of creating business-friendly policies that will allow United States-based companies have long-term, predictable investments in the region. We also discussed the importance of the Temporary Protected Status program, and the significance of U.S. foreign aid as a stabilizing force in this region. As our nation considers how best to address immigration, I urge my colleagues to consider investments to help address the problems in these countries that lead to people fleeing for their safety and well-being. This delegation’s travel provided an opportunity to discuss some of America’s most pressing problems, strengthen international alliances, and demonstrate American leadership. As Congress comes back in session, I am grateful for the opportunity to represent the United States, and to engage in important conversations that will shape the future of engagement in these countries.” For security reasons, the members did not disclose their travel before the trip was complete.
08.29.2018	This week, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) joined a bipartisan group of his colleagues to demand that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) address its failure to appropriately review the cases of veterans who reported Military Sexual Trauma (MST). The letter follows an Office of Inspector General (OIG) report that found the Veterans Benefits Administration mishandled nearly half of the sexual assault claims it rejected last year. “Our veterans deserve the highest quality of care provided by the Veterans Administration. Sexual assault survivors, who bravely come forward, deserve to be heard. Sadly, this report indicates gross negligence and could prevent veterans from coming forward in the future,” said Rep. Peters. “The VA must fully investigate the previously denied military sexual assault claims, and ensure that survivors do not experience additional trauma at the hands of a faulty system,” Rep. Peters continued. “Congress must get all the facts and then take action to address the shortfalls that failed our veterans. I hope Chairman Roe will allow the Veterans’ Affairs Committee to hold a hearing to get justice for MST survivors and ensure this does not happen to any more veterans.” Rep. Peters also joined a bipartisan group of his colleagues to send a separate letter to the Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman Phil Roe, calling for a full committee hearing to address these reports. The text of the letter sent to the VA is available here and below. August 27, 2018 The Honorable Robert Wilkie Secretary U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs810 Vermont Avenue NW Washington, DC 20420 Dear Secretary Wilkie: We write with alarm that veterans experiencing post-traumatic stress (PTS) due to military sexual trauma (MST) are seeing their claims inadequately adjudicated and inappropriately denied by the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). As Under Secretary for Personnel and Readiness, you spearheaded some of the Department of Defense’s (DoD) recent reforms regarding sexual violence in the military. Your work firmly established a comprehensive and modern sexual harassment policy within DoD, and you worked diligently to improve DoD’s sexual assault prevention efforts. We know that ensuring survivors of MST receive health care and benefits is a high priority for you. In a recent Fox News interview, you acknowledged that the military has changed dramatically since the Vietnam War era, stating: “…[T]he world has changed, and we need to change to meet those needs.” Ensuring veterans have their MST-related claims fairly and appropriately considered is one of the most important services you can reform to “meet those needs.” As you are aware, the August 21, 2018 OIG report detailed a series of serious errors with VBA’s adjudication of MST-related PTSD claims, errors that led almost half of all MST claims denied.[1] The errors found by the OIG review included failure to request a medical examination despite evidentiary sufficiency; evidence-gathering issues; failure of MST Coordinators and Veterans Service Representatives (VSR) to properly contact veterans by phone or letter for the report of a sexual assault to prove the traumatic event; and, VSR denials based on contradictory or otherwise insufficient medical opinions. This report indicates a widespread failure by VBA to follow-through on its 2011 promise to “liberalize” evidentiary standards for MST-related claims. OIG reported that these errors were in large-part due to a loss of specialization through the elimination of the Segmented Lanes Organizational Model, which put MST-related claims before special operations teams for appropriate consideration. MST-related claims often require examiners to review service records in addition to medical records. Additionally, OIG found the lack of quality control measures, such as an additional level of review or the elimination of special focused quality improvement reviews, negatively affected outcomes. While we are encouraged by VBA’s concurrence to OIG recommendations, we broadly request you take immediate action to ensure all process and procedures are veteran-centric and conform to current DoD policy—paying focused attention and consideration of immediately returning to the Segmented Lanes Organizational Model. We also worry that there is a fundamental error with VBA’s M21-1 Adjudication Procedure Manual, which provides VBA national guidance on determination of all claims. The M21-1 states erroneous Department of Defense (DoD) policy on the retainment of restricted reports, records crucial for processing MST-related claims: In restricted reporting cases, DoD stores the evidence, including results from the SAFE, for one year following the date of the victim’s report of sexual assault. If the victim does not claim the evidence or elect an unrestricted report within one year, DoD destroys it.[2] It is our understanding that this is inaccurate and not current DoD policy. Current DoD policy was published as a rule in the Federal Register on September 27, 2016, pursuant to federal law, and requires the “Victim Reporting Preference Statement” and the “DoD Sexual Assault Forensic Examination (SAFE) Report” to be retained for 50 years, regardless of the reporting disposition being restricted or unrestricted.[3][4] Further, DoD made a 2012 announcement that it changed its retainment policy for restricted reports to5 years, as required by law.[5][6] It is unclear how or why VBA policy continues to misstate military policy on the retainment of sexual assault records. This error may have created adverse outcomes for veterans that were not part of the OIG review. The M21-1 states that VBA reviewers may deny an MST-related claim without a medical examination only if there is no evidence of the stressor, no evidence of a behavioral marker, or no evidence of symptoms of a mental disorder.[7] There is real concern that the rate of inappropriate denials is higher than found by the OIG due to the misperception that key evidence needed to prove the stressor or a behavioral marker is no longer available. These failures cannot accomplish anything more than dissuade veterans from filing claims for benefits and seeking needed mental health services. In an environment where survivors often refuse to report sexual assaults for fear of retaliation, the VA’s apparent inability to fairly treat these claims risks revictimizing survivors. You must instill confidence for survivors by immediately working to resolve these issues. Consequently, we request you take the following actions: Immediately review all denied MST-related PTS claims as far back as 2012, when DoD revised its record retention practices. Provide an action plan to the congressional Committees on Veterans’ Affairs within 30 days of the date of this letter detailing VBA’s process for fairly and appropriately adjudicating previously denied MST-related claims and future MST-related claims, including incorporation of appropriate review of MST-related claims as part of the Rapid Appeals Modernization Program (RAMP). Immediately correct the records retainment error in the M21-1 and ensure VBA employees are appropriately informed/trained on the correction. Require VBA to revert to its previous claims processing model known as the Segmented Lanes Organizational Model. We recommend as part of the transition to this model that you immediately facilitate a national best practices summit (with mandatory attendance by all directors of VA regional offices) taught by your best performing claims processors. Create an additional level of review such as those found with complex claims similar to the traumatic brain injury model. Review the impact of quotas, timeliness standards, or other standards on the outcomes of MST-related claims. Establish practices that empower MST coordinators and VSRs to take the initiative and contact veterans to ensure they are aware of the evidence needed to prove their claim, rather than rely on supervisors to accomplish this important outreach. Provide additional training for call centers to further assist veterans pursuing MST-related disability claims. Consider an immediate VBA-wide stand-down to review practices and outcomes at each of VBA’s Regional Offices. Provide the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs the same information provided to the OIG as agreed to in the August 21st OIG report. Evaluate and develop a plan to improve VBA’s TEMs module to ensure effective adjudication of MST-related claims. Enter all necessary agreements with DoD to ensure compliance with the information sharing requirement found in the FY2012 NDAA intended to improve transition to health care and treatment by the VA.[8] Your actions as Under Secretary of Defense and your public recognition of the changing needs of veterans give us confidence that you will act swiftly to resolve the high rate of denied MST claims and ensure each claim is accurately adjudicated. We remain ready to assist you in resolving this issue. Thank you for consideration of our request. Sincerely, Ann McLane Kuster Jackie Walorski Elizabeth Esty Don Young Jackie Speier Mia Love Julia Brownley Niki Tsongas Scott H. Peters Daniel T. Kildee Derek Kilmer Beto O’Rourke Members of Congress
08.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) joined Americans in mourning the death of Senator John McCain: “In his final letter to Americans, John McCain urged Americans to remember that ‘our identities and sense of worth are not circumscribed but enlarged by serving good causes bigger than ourselves.’ Until his last breath, he called us all to pledge allegiance to that bigger cause: our democracy. He risked his life, endured torture, and committed his entire life to serving our country. His pride in our nation, flaws and all, should inspire us. In his honor, we must live his message: ‘we weaken our greatness when we confuse our patriotism with tribal rivalries that have sown resentment and hatred and violence in all the corners of the globe. We weaken it when we hide behind walls rather than tear them down, when we doubt the power of our ideals, rather than trust them to be the great force for change they’ve always been...Do not despair of our present difficulties but believe always in the promise and greatness of America, because nothing is inevitable here. Americans never quit. We never surrender. We never hide from history. We make history.’ John McCain will continue to motivate generations of Americans who look to his model of steady leadership, calm guidance, and willingness to put party aside for the benefit of our country. I join Californians and people across the country in mourning his death, and I extend my thoughts and prayers to Senator McCain’s family and friends.”
08.23.2018	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued the following statement after it was reported that the Department of Education was considering allowing school districts to use federal funds to buy teachers guns: “Arming teachers is alarming and reckless. It is opposed by students, educators, and law enforcement officials. The gun violence epidemic will not be solved by adding more guns to our schools. As a member of the Congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, I have called for gun laws that keep our communities safe, but that also allow responsible gun ownership. Schools should continue to be gun-free zones. Federal funds should be used to better educate our students. I will continue to oppose policies that do not make our classrooms—or nation—safer. We should support teachers with the basics they need like school supplies, instead of something they don’t want—like guns. The American people demand better from their government. I remain committed to fighting for commonsense safety measures so that gun violence tragedies are no longer the norm.”
08.21.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after President Trump announced his administration is replacing the Obama Administration’s Clean Power Plan: “Once again, the president has tossed aside a carefully crafted plan to keep our air clean and protect the environment and the public from the effects of climate change. It is another step backward for energy innovation, public health, and our decades of progress combatting climate change. The Environmental Protection Agency’s own projections acknowledge that this new rule will cause up to 1,400 premature deaths per year and increased carbon emissions. Yet, the administration is choosing to ignore the increasing signs of climate change—wildfires, drought, floods, and more—to push a policy that will worsen these disasters. The Clean Power Plan was designed to allow states flexibility to develop customized plans to meet the national goals by 2030—allowing their economies to catch up in the process by encouraging development of alternative energy technologies. Nationally, it was projected to get the equivalent of between 2.7 million and 5.3 million cars off the road. San Diegans and Californians have been at the forefront of clean technology and innovation, but air quality knows no state lines. I will do everything I can to fight it—our planet and children depend on it.”
08.15.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) celebrated the opening of PedEast, the newest piece of the San Ysidro Land Port of Entry modernization that will increase pedestrian inspection capacity at the busiest land port in the Western Hemisphere. The new structure adds 22 lanes to the existing 14 lanes at PedWest, effectively doubling capacity and increasing efficiency by cutting down on individual wait times. “The San Ysidro modernization is an example of the kind of infrastructure investments we should be making at the border,” said Rep. Peters. “When I was first elected in 2013, wait times were costing thousands of jobs and millions of dollars for both the U.S. and Mexico, so the San Diego delegation—Republicans and Democrats—worked together to restore funding for San Ysidro. The pedestrian crossing opening today builds on other modernizations that have already reduced wait times and shows what we can accomplish when we work together.” The final funding for PedEast was included in an omnibus appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2014. All five Members of Congress from San Diego worked to get $226 million for the San Ysidro Land Port of Entry Expansion Project to allow Phase II and Phase III of the project to move forward. Securing full funding for the project—$741 million total—allowed all three phases to be built simultaneously, saving time and money in the long-run. Federal, state, and local cooperation with Mexico has allowed significant upgrades on both sides of the border with minimal effect on crossings. “As the Representative for the entire California/Mexico border, it has been an honor to work with a bipartisan coalition of Members of Congress, business groups, and community members to secure full funding for the San Ysidro Land Port of Entry,” said Rep. Juan Vargas (CA-53). “These positive improvements have a major impact on the border community and I look forward to working with this coalition to finalize improvements to the remaining land ports of entry on our shared border.” “As the senior member of the San Diego Congressional Delegation, I have been involved in ensuring that the San Ysidro Land Port of Entry received necessary funding for this modernization project since 2004,” said Rep. Susan Davis (CA-53). “The San Ysidro Port is not only the busiest land port in the world, but an economic engine that contributes to the economic vibrancy of the San Diego-Baja region. The opening of the new PedEast showcases not only a more efficient way to process travelers, but our continued commitment to working with Mexico.” “Investment in our border infrastructure, both in terms of security and in commerce, is an effort that will benefit our region and communities on both sides of the border,” said Rep. Duncan Hunter (CA-50). An estimated 20,000 northbound pedestrians and 70,000 northbound vehicles cross the San Ysidro Port of Entry each day. A 2007 study by the San Diego Association of Governments estimated that delays due to border wait times cost our cross-border economies $7.2 billion in gross output and more than 62,000 jobs that year.
08.14.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) introduced the Rent Relief Act to help Americans struggling to afford housing each month. The bill would provide a refundable tax credit to renters who paid more than 30 percent of their gross income on rent, including utilities, the previous year. The bill is the House companion to the bill introduced in the Senate by Senator Kamala Harris (D-CA). “In San Diego, we know that rent and housing costs are rising faster than paychecks. People are rightfully frustrated; the cost of living in San Diego is the fourth highest among major metro regions, and many people have trouble finding housing in the first place. We need to provide short-term relief for renters, while local, state and federal governments work toward long-term solutions to our nation’s housing shortage. This bill could easily be paid for by scaling back some of the tax cuts that were given to those who don’t need them. This tax credit targets the middle class and attempts to even the playing field for those who need it most. I thank Senator Harris for working on this important legislation and I look forward to continue working with her on solutions to America’s housing crisis,” said Rep. Peters. Eligibility is determined by annual income compared to annual rent, using the federal government’s already established fair market rent rates. People who live in government-subsidized rental housing could claim the value of one month’s rent as their refundable tax credit. According to a report released in April, the average rent in San Diego rose 8 percent in a year. This trend continues across the state. California’s Department of Housing and Community Development reports that half of California renters are rent burdened, meaning they pay more than 30 percent of their income on rent. As a co-chair of the New Democrat Coalition Housing Task Force, Rep. Peters joined his colleagues in June to release a preliminary findings report emphasizing the current affordable housing crisis. A full report with policy suggestions will be released later this year.
08.08.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) highlighted a change to base access procedures for Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton, which could cause visitors to be denied access—a particular concern for recreational bikers, who would be forced to bike on the I-5. Camp Pendleton recently acquired a Defense Biometric Identification System, a new Physical Access Control System developed by the Department of Defense to give bases and military installations a secure system to monitor personnel and visitors, while keeping servicemembers and their families safe. “We want to ensure the safety of both our servicemembers and bikers as this new system is implemented at San Diego bases and installations,” said Rep. Peters. “Active modes of transportation, like bikes and biking infrastructure, can help San Diego meet our Climate Action Plan goals and provide more transit choices for our communities. We also want to ensure everyone can take advantage of our beautiful region and all the recreation opportunities San Diego offers.” San Diego’s biking community expressed concern that bicycle travelers would be turned away from base gates because they were unaware of the changes and could not re-register their access passes. “We want to be sure to get the word out to all cyclists in the region about this new requirement, so they can be prepared,” said Andy Henshaw, Executive Director of the San Diego Bike Coalition. “We'd also like to engage in renewed calls for a long-term solution of a separated bike path along I-5 to accommodate bicyclists traveling up and down the coast. This is an extremely popular route, especially for bicycle travelers that should be safe and accessible.” An estimated 13,500 bikers ride through Camp Pendleton as part of a popular route from Oceanside to San Clemente. Rep. Peters has consistently supported expanding access to alternative forms of transportation, including bike infrastructure, and paths, lanes, and trails. Cyclists have until October 1, 2018 to re-register with the new system. Information about the changes and instructions on how to pre-enroll are available on the Camp Pendleton website here. To pre-enroll click here.
08.02.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) blasted the Trump Administration’s announcement that it will roll back fuel efficiency standards for American vehicles through 2026. California and 17 other states are waging a legal battle to ensure the state can continue to implement its own higher standards to protect our air and water from pollution. “This regulatory rollback by the Trump Administration completely disregards Americans’ health and undermines our work to keep our air and water clean. It also stifles innovation and competition that has created more efficient, cleaner engines that can power our future,” said Rep. Peters. “California has consistently led the way with bold clean energy goals and developed innovative solutions to address air pollution before the Clean Air Act passed; multiple states followed our lead. The Trump Administration wants to jeopardize future progress that consumers demand. I will continue to push Congress to consider long-term consequences of this rollback, and support policies that combat climate change, incentivize innovation, and provide consumers with more options.” Rep. Peters joined a coalition of 60 Democrats to introduce a resolution opposing the Administration’s rollbacks. Senator Kamala Harris (D-CA) has also introduced a companion bill. In 2016, Rep. Peters wrote an op-ed in the Washington Post calling on Congress to support fuel efficiency standards.
07.31.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced changes to veteran education benefits, which became law as part of the Forever GI Bill, will go into effect tomorrow, August 1, 2018. The Forever GI Bill also included a provision written by Rep. Peters to make all Purple Heart recipients eligible for full education benefits, regardless of how long they served active-duty. “One of Congress’s most important jobs is to ensure veterans can access the benefits they have earned. Tomorrow, we keep that promise by implementing the Forever GI Bill. This includes my provision that gives service members and veterans awarded the Purple Heart on or after September 11, 2001 full education benefits for up to 36 months. As a member of the Veterans’ Affairs committee, I will continue to advocate for veterans’ needs in San Diego and beyond,” said Rep. Peters. Approximately 3,000 Purple Heart veterans will now be able to access their full benefits. Other provisions that will go live on August 1, 2018 include: Eligibility for reservists to use post-9/11 GI Bill benefits Adjustment to monthly housing allowance Development of pilot programs for high-tech skill education Additional information about implementation of the Forever GI Bill can be found here. Veterans in need of VA educational assistance following changes to GI Bill benefits can contact Rep. Peters’ San Diego office by calling 858-455-5550. Applications for VA benefits can be found here.
07.26.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) supported the final version of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of Fiscal Year 2019, as agreed upon by both the House and Senate. It is expected to be signed into law by the President. “This legislation will provide necessary funding to make sure that our military can continue to protect our nation. I supported the House version of this legislation because it furthered the military’s investment in San Diego. The final version we passed today includes important funding boosts that prioritize San Diego interests,” said Rep. Peters. “The bill also permits a land transfer from the Department of Defense to UC San Diego, which will give UCSD greater flexibility to expand and meet the evolving needs of its students and community. “It also provides increased access to commissaries for disabled veterans, $11.3 billion for military construction projects, and a 2.6 percent pay raise for servicemembers. These defense-related investments drive one-fifth of our region’s economy, and incentivize innovation and job creation.”
07.24.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters’ (CA-52) bipartisan bill to extend education and career counseling to all deployed servicemembers passed the House. The Reserve Component Vocational Rehabilitation Parity Act extends Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E) services provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to reservists and guardsmen who are called to serve during times of war or national emergency. “Our veterans served our country, and it’s our duty to make sure they can access the resources and full benefits they earned—regardless of how and when they served. America should support them as they transition into civilian life, and this overdue fix helps guardsmen and reservists go to school, join the workforce, and become integrated and self-sufficient members of our communities,” said Rep. Scott Peters. Under current law, two reservists serving side-by-side on active duty may not receive the same vocational rehab benefits simply because of the authority under which they were mobilized. Upon separation from active duty, months or years spent deployed as a reservist can count against the 12 years that veterans have to access their benefits. Veterans lose eligibility to access these benefits 12 years after they separate from active military service or after the VA notifies them of a service-related disability rating. Watch Rep. Peters speak on the House Floor in support of his bill HERE. Rep. Peters and Chairman Bergman (MI-01) introduced the bill in April with the support of their Veterans’ Affairs Committee colleagues, and in May spoke before the full Veterans’ Affairs Committee in support of sending the bill to the House floor. The Veterans’ Affairs Committee passed the bill earlier in July. Since being named to the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee during 115th Congress, Rep. Peters has introduced and passed several bills that have become law. These include a bill that extends post-9/11 GI benefits to all Purple Heart recipients and a bill that boosts veteran peer mentoring that was included in the Veterans’ Affairs MISSION Act. He also has introduced an amendment to prohibit the redirection of funds intended to address veterans experiencing homelessness, and legislation that promotes VA health care transparency and competition, both of which passed the House.
07.20.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement on the departure of Colonel Jason G. Woodworth as commanding officer of Marine Corps Air Station Miramar: “I first met Col. Woodworth in 2015, just days before he officially assumed command of MCAS Miramar. Since then, his steadfast leadership has been a tremendous benefit to San Diego, MCAS Miramar, and the Marine Corps. He led with foresight and a clear vision for the future of the Marine Corps that matched San Diego’s forward-thinking approach to defense innovation and more. He understood that smart energy technology and conservation makes for better warfighters. I was honored to support Miramar’s grant application for their permanent microgrid—one of the largest defense-related microgrids in the world—that significantly increased the base’s resiliency. These actions rightfully earned Col. Woodworth a 2018 Installation Excellence Award from Secretary Mattis for his leadership in deploying renewable energy sources and providing service members and military families with a high quality of life. He will truly be missed, but I am glad we will have another champion for these initiatives—and San Diego—in the Pentagon. I look forward to working with Colonel Dockery to ensure the continued success of MCAS Miramar.”
07.19.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued this statement following his opposition to a House resolution that claims a carbon tax would be detrimental to the American economy: “Republicans don’t have a solution to address climate change. Instead of coming up with one, they slated another political vote on a resolution that does not reflect the interests of the American people. Worse, the resolution makes the false claim that a carbon tax would be bad for the economy. “The resolution also presents a false choice between a clean environment and a prosperous economy. Several efforts around the country include initiatives to create refundable carbon taxes. A carbon tax would not necessarily raise the cost of energy, and could greatly benefit both producers and consumers. This vote does nothing to put America on a path to energy resilience. We should be investing in comprehensive energy strategies that both grow our economy and protect our environment. “I will continue to fight for the right investments that help us meet clean energy goals that benefit our environment and our economy.” Economic modeling shows that some carbon taxes could increase GDP. For example, a recent Columbia University study concludes that GDP could increase by nearly half a percent depending on how revenue raised from the tax is spent.
07.19.2018	Today, U.S. Congressmen Scott Peters (CA-52) and David Young (IA-3) introduced the bipartisan Carbon Utilization Act of 2018, which promotes biogas and carbon capture utilization and sequestration (CCUS) technologies to increase biogas production as part of a diverse mix of energy sources, from natural gas to nuclear, to wind and solar, and even algae, to meet our future energy needs. Biogas is created from organic waste material from food, crops, livestock, and wastewater that is converted into carbon dioxide, methane or other carbon products. The carbon dioxide or methane produced by the breakdown of those organic materials is captured using CCUS technologies, and then used as electricity, heat, or fuel—or even fertilizer or soil. This bill incentivizes the use of this innovative technology for farmers, ranchers, biotech, and small businesses by broadening United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) loan guarantees, rural development loans, and research programs to include CCUS technologies. The bill also promotes collaboration between government agencies and creates education programs highlighting carbon capture technology. Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) introduced a similar bill in the Senate. “The future of energy depends on innovation. In San Diego, our clean energy sector is capitalizing on new energy sources, like biogas, which produces more efficient energy and creates jobs in the process. Investing in carbon capture technology is an investment in the future of energy that reduces our dependence on foreign oil, cuts greenhouse gas emissions, and helps grow our economy. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues and key industries to foster groundbreaking energy programs,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “Across Iowa, farms, ethanol and biodiesel plants, and other rural businesses hold the potential to help the United States become more energy independent by putting their byproducts to use. Carbon capture technology will help reduce the amount of harmful gasses in the air, bring us closer to energy independence, and continue to grow our economy. Working in a bipartisan way, we can increase investment in our rural communities and I look forward to working with Congressman Peters and my colleagues to advance this legislation,” said Rep. David Young. “Algae and other emerging technologies are transforming carbon emissions from environmental challenge to economic opportunity. The Carbon Utilization Act recognizes the important role USDA can and must play in supporting farmers, small businesses, and rural utilities in the deployment of carbon capture and use and the development of value-added products from recycled carbon. ABO thanks Congressmen Peters and Young for their leadership in this important work,” said Matt Carr, Executive Director of Algae Biomass Organization. “American prosperity benefits from a strong biogas industry. Just as biogas systems help our nation’s farms and rural economies, the Carbon Utilization Act, introduced by Congressmen Scott Peters (D-CA-52) and David Young (R-IA-03) will strengthen farming operations, increase sustainability and create new revenue streams to help protect family farm operations, especially during commodity price swings. Provisions which were similar to this bill were included in the Senate version of the Farm Bill. We remain very hopeful that the important policy will be incorporated into the final harmonized Farm Bill," said Patrick Serfass, Executive Director of the American Biogas Council. “The Carbon Capture Coalition endorses the Carbon Utilization Act introduced in the U.S. House today by Rep. David Young (R-IA) and Rep. Scott Peters (D-CA). The diverse industry, labor, environmental, agricultural and other participants in the Coalition welcome key provisions in this legislation that will expand the capture, beneficial use and geologic storage of CO2 in the production of renewable fuels, chemicals and biobased products, which will benefit agriculture, rural economies and communities while reducing carbon emissions. We support the efforts of Representatives Young and Peters to secure passage of this important legislation as part of the broader 2018 Farm Bill,” said Brad Crabtree, vice president for fossil energy at the Great Plains Institute and co-director of the Carbon Capture Coalition.
07.18.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued the following statement after voting present on H. Res. 990, a resolution supporting Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). This resolution does not address America’s need for comprehensive immigration reform. “I do not support abolishing ICE. I support the men and women who serve in Immigration and Customs Enforcement who are focused on the agency's original mission—our national security. “However, I strongly oppose the anti-immigrant policy direction of the Trump Administration and congressional Republicans that has, among other things, ripped children away from their parents while they seek asylum. “The language of this resolution is unnecessarily antagonistic toward immigrants, and does not reflect the true American spirit or attitudes of families seeking better lives for their children. “Rather than enacting political statements, Congress should address the country's real need for broader immigration reform to protect Dreamers, enhance cargo screening at the border, and combat drug trafficking. These are consistent with securing our border and keeping our nation safe.”
07.16.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued the following statement after the conclusion of President Trump’s meeting with Vladimir Putin in Helsinki: “President Trump’s disgraceful remarks in Helsinki betray our American democracy in the face of its most dangerous adversary. His alarming dismissal of the American intelligence community’s unanimous assessment that Russia waged cyberwarfare on America and his decision instead to stand with an autocratic tyrant diminish America’s world standing. We must stand up to the President’s refusal to defend our country. Today, I call on both Democratic and Republican leadership in the House and Senate to introduce a formal joint resolution censuring the President for his egregious comments. This should not be a partisan issue. It is an American issue. It arises at a time when Russia and other countries are planning the next attacks on U.S. elections. We must take immediate action to defend and strengthen our election system while we can still prevent damage to future elections.”
07.13.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement on the LGBT Pride Festival celebration this weekend in San Diego: “Each Pride Month, we have a lot to celebrate in San Diego. Our city has historically been a leader in LGBT rights and has helped our region and state advance equality for all. This year, we made history again when our own State Senator Toni Atkins became the first woman and first lesbian State Senate President Pro Tem. Pride is also a chance to unite around the challenges yet to be won. As part of the LGBT Equality Caucus, I’m fighting to ensure no one faces discrimination or harassment because of who they are or who they love; that no brave, qualified American who wants to enlist in our military is turned away because of their gender identity; and that the personal convictions of a store or business don’t supersede the civil rights of LGBT customers. Until then, I know our LGBT community and their allies will show strength in the face of hate and determination in the fight for justice and equality for all. Happy Pride, San Diego!” As City Council President, Rep. Peters led the San Diego City Council to oppose Prop. 8. He later served on the San Diego LGBT Center Board of Directors. In Congress, Rep. Peters is part of a coalition leading efforts to strengthen federal non-discrimination laws by supporting the Equality Act. He also passed legislation to outlaw discrimination against LGBT federal workers and contractors, and last year he filed an amendment to block the Trump Administration’s attempt to ban the service of transgender individuals in the U.S. military.
07.13.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced a $7.94 million Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) grant awarded to the San Diego Regional Task Force on the Homeless (RTFH) to help them identify homeless youth in San Diego and connect them to housing services, as part of their ongoing effort to prevent and end youth homelessness. “Youth are often hidden among San Diego’s homeless population, which makes it challenging to connect them with resources like education, health care, employment, and housing. This grant will help the Regional Task Force expand their work to reach and serve this vulnerable population,” said Rep. Peters. “I’ve fought to increase the overall funding San Diego receives through the Continuum of Care formula, but until we achieve that fix, federal grants and support are crucial as San Diego works to reduce our housing and homelessness crisis.” The announcement follows a letter sent by Rep. Peters in support of the Regional Task Force’s application for the grant. The letter stressed the Regional Task Force’s invaluable role in ensuring San Diego’s public, private, and nonprofit organizations put forward a coordinated effort to address the unique challenges of homeless youth, who are traditionally more difficult to find, survey, and effectively help. Earlier this year, Rep. Peters fought to secure funding for San Diego Unified School District’s Education for Homeless Youth Program, which connects homeless youth with community resources so they can succeed in school. The grant was awarded through HUD’s Youth Homelessness Demonstration Program (YHDP), which supports a wide range of housing programs including rehousing, permanent supportive housing, transitional housing, and host homes. San Diego was one of 11 communities awarded the grant, receiving the most money out of all the awardees.
07.12.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters’ (CA-52) bipartisan bill to provide guardsmen and reservists the same educational and employment benefits, regardless of how they were called to serve, passed the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee. Currently, two reservists serving side-by-side on active duty may not receive the same vocational-rehab benefits simply because of the authority under which they were mobilized. Upon separation from active duty, months or years spent deployed as a reservist can count against the 12 years that veterans have to access their benefits. “Our guardsmen and reservists serve honorably in support of combat missions. They have earned the same employment and education benefits as any other reservist through their service, regardless of the authority under which they were deployed. My bill, the Reserve Component Vocational Rehabilitation Parity Act, will ensure reservists and guardsmen have access to the full 12-year window for vocational-rehab benefits by pausing the clock when they are called to serve our country. I look forward to seeing my bill come to the House floor soon.” said Rep. Peters. The bill is supported by National Guard Association of the United States and the Reserve Officers Association. Rep. Peters continues to be a strong advocate for veterans’ issues. Since being named to the House Veterans’ Committee during 115th Congress, Rep. Peters has introduced and passed an amendment to prohibit the redirection of funds intended to address veterans’ homelessness, a bill to boost veteran peer mentoring that was included in the Veterans’ Affairs MISSION Act, a bill that promotes VA health care transparency and competition, and a bill to extend benefits to all Purple Heart recipients access to post-9/11 GI benefits.
07.05.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) welcomed Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt’s decision to resign. “Scott Pruitt’s resignation is welcome and long overdue. As EPA Administrator, he wrongfully put personal interests over environmental stewardship and public health. Instead of focusing on protecting our land, air, and water for future generations, Pruitt filled the EPA with unqualified people, who also had enormous conflicts of interest; he wasted taxpayer money on personal expenses; and he dismantled key environmental protections,” said Rep. Peters. “I pressed Pruitt and other EPA officials on these actions and allegations because they conflict with the spirit and mission of the EPA. As a former environmental lawyer, I’ve seen the dangers to our environment and championed policies to reduce those risks throughout my entire career. Pruitt did not share those same values and I will continue to hold the entire agency accountable to the laws that protect our air, our water, and our public lands. Unfortunately, the acting head of the EPA is Andrew Wheeler, a former coal lobbyist whose sights are also set on rapid deregulation,” Rep. Peters continued. Five days after Rep. Peters called for the resignation of EPA Superfund Chief Albert Kelly, Kelly resigned. Rep. Peters also questioned Pruitt, who refused to answer questions about changes to methane rules. He also questioned EPA Air and Radiation Assistant Administrator Wehrum about the consequences of greenhouse gases on public health. Rep. Peters had also signed onto legislation calling for Pruitt’s dismissal.
06.28.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted to pass the bipartisan Department of Defense (DOD) Appropriations Act of 2019, which allocates all defense spending for the 2019 fiscal year including funding for military personnel, operations and maintenance, procurement, and research and development. “San Diegans know that a fifth of our region’s economy comes from the critical role we play in keeping our nation safe, and the contributions of our health research institutions are unmatched; this spending package provides critical boosts to both of these. Both abroad and at home, Congress is making investments that protect our nation from evolving threats, and prioritize our troops. I joined a bipartisan majority to pass this legislation, and I remain committed to investments in research and development, improved operations and procurement, and to giving better compensation to our service members who make enormous sacrifices to defend the United States,” said Rep. Peters. The defense spending bill included funding for San Diego priorities, including $22 billion for shipbuilding, funding for three Littoral Combat Ships per year and $1.6 billion for aircraft carriers. The troops will receive a much-deserved 2.6% pay raise. Aircraft procurement also receives a funding boost with $9.4 billion allocated for 93 F-35s and $1.9 billion for 24 F-18s. In addition, health care research will get expanded funding to address the special health risks and challenges our service members face. The legislation includes $374 million for cancer research, $125 million for traumatic brain injury research, and $321 million for sexual assault prevention and response. Rep. Peters also supported an amendment to the bill that would prohibit DOD facilities from housing detained immigrants, but the amendment was not made in order.
06.28.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released a statement following Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy’s announcement that he will retire effective July 31: “I thank Justice Kennedy for his independent jurisprudence and his service to the Court and his country. I hope the president will nominate a candidate who is of similar caliber and fairness and who will carefully consider the merits of each case. I urge the Senate to look for justices that will maintain independence,” said Rep. Peters.
06.27.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) joined a bipartisan majority to defeat Speaker Ryan’s immigration bill, which failed by a 121-301 vote. “Make no mistake: this bill was no compromise. We wasted two weeks on bills that had no chance of passing. Instead of holding Dreamers and detained children hostage to the border wall, we should vote on bills to give Dreamers certainty and reunite families outside of detention facilities. This country needs a real immigration fix, not a bill developed in secret between Republicans without any Democratic input. I continue to call on my Republican colleagues to work with the many Democrats who stand ready to pass a bipartisan bill like the USA Act that has been put forward,” said Rep. Peters. The Ryan bill slashes legal immigration, ends the diversity visa lottery, and cuts family-based immigration categories. It also spends $25 billion to build the border wall, with a provision to shut down DACA visas if the money is rescinded. Families and children could continue to be separated at the border. “Five years ago, the Senate addressed broader immigration concerns in a bipartisan bill that passed with 69 votes. But House politics got in the way and we never voted on that bill. Congress needs to return to those larger conversations and put in the work to produce a compromise together,” Rep. Peters continued. Rep. Peters has continually called for the House to debate and pass comprehensive bipartisan immigration reform. In March, he highlighted the need for a long-term DACA fix. He has also spoken out against family separations at the border on the House floor and joined dozens of members to introduce the Keep Families Together Act following the Trump Administration’s Executive Order allowing families to be separated at the border. In 2013, he called for immediate action in the House following the Senate’s compromise immigration legislation.
06.27.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released a statement following the 5-4 Supreme Court Janus v. AFSCME decision, upending 40 years of precedent in collective bargaining rights: “The Supreme Court Janus ruling is a blatant, ideological attack on public servants, who have fought for rights that benefit all workers. It overturns decades of precedent that ensured fair pay and safe workspaces, and creates uncertainty in the more than 20 states that have been handling fee agreements on their own. This is a blow to working families. We will keep fighting to strengthen protections to empower public servants like firefighters, teachers, law enforcement officers, and others across the country.”
06.26.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued the following statement after the Supreme Court ruled to uphold 5-4 President Trump’s Muslim travel ban in the Trump v. Hawaii decision: “I am deeply disappointed by the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold this dangerous and cruel policy. This decision emboldens the President to enact discriminatory policies, under the false guise of national security, that target immigrants based on nation of origin and religion. Barring legal travel from Muslim-majority nations does not make us safer. Instead, it robs us of talented individuals who could contribute to America’s economy and culture. The Supreme Court also reaffirmed the need for Congress to pass comprehensive immigration reform, which could serve as a constitutional check on the president’s authority. America is and should continue to be the shining beacon of opportunity for people across the world fleeing from violence and oppression. I will continue urging my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to do the right thing and pass bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform.” Rep. Peters has continued to call for an end to the travel ban, including signing onto a March 2018 amicus brief to the Supreme Court highlighting the false choice between national security and welcoming people fleeing oppression. He also issued statements in January and March 2017 calling for an end to this practice. In February 2017, he led a letter demanding the Government Accountability Office detail what input was solicited from federal agencies before the travel ban was issued.
06.26.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) joined his colleagues to pass the “Blue Water” Navy Vietnam Veterans Act, correcting a decades-old wrong and ensuring that Navy veterans who served offshore during the Vietnam War are entitled to the same benefits as other veterans exposed to Agent Orange. “Not all veterans who served in the Vietnam War have been treated with the respect and honor they deserved. This bill allows the 174,000 Blue Water Navy veterans, who served on ships that patrolled the territorial seas of Vietnam, to get the benefits they earned through their service. As a Vietnam Veteran Commemorative Partner, and a proud member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, this fix is another way I’m working to honor the tremendous sacrifices of Vietnam-era veterans,” said Rep. Peters. The bill makes Blue Water Navy veterans eligible for disability compensation and requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to alert veterans of this change and reevaluate past claims. During the Vietnam War, Blue Water Navy veterans served on ships in the waters surrounding Vietnam. That same region was exposed to Agent Orange, a powerful chemical used by U.S. forces to kill forests and crops that was later found to cause serious health issues including cancer, birth defects, and psychological damage. Previously, the Department of Veterans Affairs required Blue Water Navy veterans to prove they were directly exposed to Agent Orange before they could receive benefits, which is nearly impossible decades after the Vietnam War. The expanded eligibility also applies to veterans who served in the Korean War demilitarized zone, an area where Agent Orange was tested.
06.22.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted with a bipartisan majority to pass the Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment (SUPPORT) for Patients and Communities Act, which includes a provision written and introduced by Rep. Peters to incentivize the use of innovative, non-opioid painkillers and make them available to Medicare patients. “The opioid crisis has devastated communities across the country and a large part of addressing the epidemic is stopping addiction where it frequently begins: after surgery. The bill passed today includes my bipartisan proposal to help provide patients and doctors with alternatives to opioids for pain management following surgery. By encouraging the development of non-opioid alternatives and making them available to patients once they reach the market, we hope to prevent patients from becoming addicted to opioids in the first place,” said Rep. Peters. “I urge my colleagues in the Senate to pass this bill, or similar legislation, to support medical innovation that can curb the ongoing epidemic.” Under current law, Medicare pays hospitals a fixed amount for a procedure, like surgery, including reimbursement for painkillers. Opioids are frequently prescribed because they are Medicare’s pre-approved, lower-cost pain management option and reimbursement levels don’t cover the higher cost of alternative pain medication. To receive a higher reimbursement rate under Rep. Peters’ legislation, newly developed non-opioid painkillers must demonstrate an improvement from current market alternatives, as determined by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). The bill passed today includes Rep. Peters’ proposal that provides a market incentive to research and develop new non-opioid painkillers that will be available to Medicare recipients--and all in need of an opioid alternative--to use. In 2016, Rep. Peters helped pass more than a dozen bills aimed at a comprehensive solution to the opioid crisis, the use of new technology for U.S. Customs and Border Patrol to fight the spread of fentanyl, and the passage of the 21st Century Cures Act with significant funding boosts directed at addressing opioid abuse.
06.20.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued this statement following the Trump Administration’s Executive Order to indefinitely detain families attempting to enter the United States without a valid visa, regardless of whether they are seeking asylum. “This Order might appear to provide a short-term fix on behalf of desperate families, but it instead is seriously flawed and destined to fail. The courts have already ruled that it is against the law to detain children indefinitely, which is what is called for in this Executive Order. It will be challenged immediately. Instead of using Executive Orders to score political points, we should come up with a real plan to address the serious lack of judges that decide immigration cases, and focus on bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform,” said Rep. Peters. “While families wait for a decision on their immigration status, we can treat them with respect and dignity that demonstrates American values to the rest of the world. I stand ready to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass legislation to address this humanitarian crisis,” Rep. Peters continued. The 1993 Flores v. Reno decision held that unaccompanied minors cannot be detained for more than 20 days. It required the government to prioritize placing children with a relative or family friend without unnecessary delay, and set a standard of care for children held in detention. Any attempt to indefinitely detain children with their parents violates these court rulings. In 2016, a Ninth Circuit Court found that the Flores decision also applies to children who arrived in the country with their family. While a recent government spending bill provided funding for 100 new immigration judges, reports indicate that more than 524 judges—and their staff—are needed to process the backlog of cases in the immigration court system. Yesterday, Rep. Peters helped introduce the Keep Families Together Act, which would prohibit Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officials from separating children from their parents, except in extraordinary circumstances. Last week, he spoke out on the House floor to demand an immediate change to the separation policy. Rep. Peters joined his colleagues in early June to ask that the Appropriations Committee limit the Department of Homeland Security’s ability to use funds allocated to separate children and parents.
06.19.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped introduce the Keep Families Together Act, which would immediately halt the Trump Administration’s horrific and cruel practice of separating families who arrive at the United States border. “Ripping terrified children away from their parents’ arms at the border is horrifying and un-American. These children have endured so much already and should not suffer even more at the hands of this Administration’s cruel policies. Children are being held hostage to the Trump/Ryan border wall. To be clear, the President could end this right now with the stroke of a pen, but he won’t, so Congress must act. I urge my colleagues in the House and Senate to support and pass this bill so we can end this injustice. I remind my Republican colleagues that the world is watching us,” said Rep. Peters. The bill prohibits Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officials from separating children from their parents, except in extraordinary circumstances, like trafficking indicators or other concerns of risk to the child. It also requires DHS to develop policies and procedures allowing parents and children to locate each other and reunite if they have been separated. This announcement follows Rep. Peters’ work to oppose family separation at the border and calls for immediate action to stop the practice. Last week, Rep. Peters spoke out on the House floor to demand an immediate change to the separation policy. In early June, Rep. Peters joined his colleagues to ask that the Appropriations Committee limit the Department of Homeland Security’s ability to use funds allocated to separate children and parents. Watch Rep. Peters call for an immediate end to family separation on the House floor HERE.
06.15.2018	Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) joined his colleagues on the House floor to demand the Trump Administration end its despicable practice of separating children and their parents who come to America seeking asylum. “In our country, family is an institution. It shapes every aspect of our lives. Today, family—that concept—is being torn apart and challenged at our own borders. Screaming children are being ripped from their mother’s arms. These parents are fleeing government violence, domestic violence, religious persecution. They follow generations of people who came to America, seeking a better life,” Rep. Peters said. Rep. Peters called for an immediate change to this horrific practice, noting a San Diego judge’s refusal to dismiss a lawsuit challenging family separation, and the harm caused to children who are forcibly separated from their families. Rep. Peters’ full remarks can be viewed HERE.
06.13.2018	Today, Congressmen Mike Bishop (MI-8) and Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statements in response to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) announcement to allow Medicare beneficiaries to use smartphone technology with their continuous glucose monitors (CGM) without jeopardizing their access to Medicare services. Previously CMS could deny coverage for the use of CGM technology if the patient were to link their smartphone to the CGM. The announcement follows a bipartisan letter Reps. Bishop and Peters led to CMS Administrator Seema Verma requesting CMS consider extending coverage for this emerging innovation. “Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) technology for diabetes management has real potential to provide peace of mind and independence to patients and families living with this disease,” said Rep. Bishop. “The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ initial guidance did not allow beneficiaries to utilize their smartphones in conjunction with these devices, in conflict with how many use their CGMs. This announcement means patients will be able to use their mobile devices to share data and alerts with caregivers and loved ones – without the fear of losing Medicare coverage.” “Millions of people who have diabetes and are over 65 can now monitor their glucose levels using the technology already in their pocket: a smartphone. This is the kind of innovation we should promote across the health care system to improve patients’ quality of life. People who receive Medicare should be able to use a smartphone app to share their health data with loved ones, separately or in conjunction with their device, without fear that Medicare will deny coverage for their glucose monitoring device. This long-overdue change is welcome news for San Diegans, and people across the country trying to keep healthy and manage their disease,” said Rep. Peters. Led by Reps. Mike Bishop (R-MI) and Scott Peters (D-CA), the letter was signed by Reps. Mike Kelly (R-PA), Jason Smith (R-MO), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Michael Burgess (R-TX), Pat Meehan (R-PA), Diane Black (R-TN), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Kevin McCarthy (R-CA), David Schweikert (R-AZ), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Devin Nunes (R-CA), Gus Bilirakis (R-FL), Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Denny Heck (D-WA), Pete Sessions (R-TX), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), Peter Roskam (R-IL), Erik Paulsen (R-MN), Kenny Marchant (R-TX), Leonard Lance (R-NJ), Markwayne Mullin (R-OK), Susan Brooks (R-IN), Joe Barton (R-TX), Richard Hudson (R-NC), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Mimi Walters (R-CA), Buddy Carter (R-GA), Brett Guthrie (R-KY), and Susan Davis (D-CA). The full text of the letter can be read at this link.
06.08.2018	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed Congressman Scott Peters‘ (CA-52) amendment to prohibit the Trump Administration from gutting funding for veteran homelessness programs. The amendment was included in a larger package of appropriations bills, which Peters supported, that fund energy research, military construction, and the Department of Veterans Affairs. When signed into law, this legislation will provide funding through the end of the fiscal year. It includes funds important for San Diego, specifically $1.77 billion for homeless veterans’ assistance programs, more than $401 million in military construction funding for San Diego County, and $2.9 billion for the Veterans Benefits Administration to reduce disability backlog claims. “It’s unconscionable that this Administration even considered cutting critical funds to help get homeless vets off the streets and into housing. My amendment that passed today helps ensure our nation keeps its promises to our veterans,” said Rep. Peters. Click HERE to watch Rep. Peters deliver remarks from the House floor urging his colleagues to pass his amendment to ensure homeless veterans have access to essential resources. Since coming to Congress, and now as a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, Rep. Peters has championed programs that address veteran homelessness in San Diego and across the country. In January, Rep. Peters questioned the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) about what the agency is doing to address the gap between high housing costs and the value of vouchers for veterans. HUD acknowledged more must be done to bridge the gap between the rising housing costs across the country and the value of vouchers provided by HUD and the Veterans’ Administration. “This legislation invests in important priorities; it funds veteran homelessness programs, invests in San Diego military installations, and supports the Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository. I strongly disagree with, and argued against, the cuts it makes to our renewable energy investments like the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy and the Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy program, cuts pushed by Republicans and supported by the Trump Administration. I hope the Senate will restore this funding and that it will be part of the final bill signed by the President. In the end, however, I supported today’s package because it invests heavily in San Diego in a way that will boost our local economy and create jobs, and will go a long way toward supporting veterans in San Diego and the country,” Peters added. The legislation also included boosts to the following programs: $268 million for the Yucca Mountain Nuclear Waste Repository $1.2 billion for electronic health record systems in the Veterans’ Administration $70.9 billion for Veterans Health Administration for medical costs
06.07.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after the passage of the Water Resources Development Act, which authorizes water-related studies and projects, that includes projects to support San Diego and California’s water infrastructure and policies to support ports, waterways, and environmental protection and restoration: “Our infrastructure is crumbling. The American Society of Civil Engineers gives America’s infrastructure a D+. This bill will reinforce ports, waterways, and water infrastructure in California and across the country—an investment in resiliency and water security for our communities. It also directs the Army Corps of Engineers to expedite a study of the Tijuana River’s flood risk management and ecosystem restoration, a step forward in mitigating the Tijuana sewage spill. While this bill is not exactly what I would have written, it is good for California’s and San Diego’s long-term water security.”
06.06.2018	Last week, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52), a member of the House New Democrat Coalition leadership, helped unveil a set of policy priorities to ensure that American workers are prepared for the jobs of the future. Rep. Peters joined the Future of Work Task Force with the Coalition to develop Closing the Skills and Opportunity Gaps, the first in a series of policy plans to close the skill and opportunity gaps and empower American workers. The policy paper focuses on three principles to navigate the changing economy: Give every American access to the tools to succeed in the 21st century economy. Remove obstacles for Americans to access middle-skill jobs and close the opportunity gap. Create a culture of lifelong learning and make it easier for workers to invest in their future. “Our economy is changing and Americans need a new set of skills to compete and be successful. In San Diego, our growing innovation economy is creating a demand for STEM skills, and qualified candidates to fill positions in these emerging industries. This plan prioritizes investing in education and career training, and also makes sure businesses can keep up with changing technology and demands. It’s a broad-based plan to address our economic challenges and set our country on the right track to compete and innovate,” said Rep. Peters. The Coalition established the Future of Work Task Force this Congress to investigate trends in innovation, the workforce, and the economy that are changing the way Americans work today and in the future. The Task Force convened panels, forums, and meetings to gather information about the challenges in the future of work. Following those meetings with stakeholders from companies, labor unions, local organizations, and thought leaders, the full agenda, Economic Opportunity Agenda: A Future that Works, was first announced last month and is available here. A one-pager is also available.
05.24.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) joined a bipartisan group of his colleagues to pass the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019, a bill that authorizes defense-related spending and determines policy. The final bill, which authorizes $717 billion in defense spending, includes a 2.6 percent pay increase for service members (the largest raise in 9 years); funding three additional Littoral Combat Ships; $2.5 billion for military construction, including more than $516 million in San Diego County; nearly $420 million in family housing construction for the Navy and Marine Corps; and a new drug monitoring program specifically addressing opioid use and abuse in the military. It directs the Navy to assess the national security implications of the Tijuana sewage spill, which continues to flow into San Diego waters. “Congress’s most important job is ensuring we have a smart, robust national defense that protects Americans. Today’s vote is a chance to recommit to our nation’s mission, and better support those who serve and their families. While this bill is not perfect, it offers a real chance to make sure that America is ready to face new and emerging threats with the 21st-century military we need. The 52nd district is home to seven military installations, and defense-related investments made in our community support job creation, innovation, and drive one-fifth of our region’s economy,” said Rep. Peters. Rep. Peters continued, “This bill also takes steps to address a problem closer to home: the Tijuana sewage spill, which has threatened our coastline, our public health, and the readiness of our servicemembers. The potential threat to Navy SEAL training is a national security matter. We need to know how San Diego’s new Navy SEAL coastal campus would be affected by continued sewage spills.” The authorization bill requires the Navy to host a briefing on the impacts of the Tijuana River sewage spill, and determine how the Navy can work with the Department of State, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Homeland Security, the International Boundary Water Commission, and the Department of the Interior to mitigate the consequences to troop readiness. Rep. Peters has called for action to address these spills since they were first reported, including raising the alarm when the President’s budget proposal eliminated a grant program that funds repairs to sewage infrastructure, announcing a $1.17 million grant from the Environmental Protection Agency to address the spill, and joining Rep. Susan Davis (CA-53) to call on the Navy to study the spill’s effect on Navy SEAL training. While the bill had significant victories for the San Diego region, it also included concerning provisions like a 25 percent cut to the Department of Defense’s “Fourth Estate,” which could have alarming impacts on military readiness, specifically in logistical support and cybersecurity. The nearly 30 agencies that support the Department of Defense, commonly referred to as the Fourth Estate, play an especially pivotal role in San Diego, providing critical support to the men and women in uniform who serve our country.
05.22.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement following the unanimous passage of his bipartisan legislation to increase transparency and promote competition for Medical/Surgical Prime Vendor (MSPV) program in the Department of Veterans’ Affairs health care system: “The House moved quickly to pass this legislation to drive down health care prices for veterans. With the right people at the table to make essential clinical decisions, we can ensure that veterans are getting better access to the quality health care they deserve. I will continue to advocate for common-sense reforms like this one.” Rep. Peters introduced the legislation earlier in May and joined his Veterans’ Affairs Committee colleagues to pass a series of bipartisan bills that are being considered in the House this week.
05.21.2018	This week, Representatives Scott Peters (CA-52) and Mike Coffman (CO-06) introduced H.R. 5830, the ‘Veteran Partners’ Efforts to Enhance Reintegration (PEER) Act’. The bill authorizes the Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA) to expand the peer-to-peer counseling program to better address the complex mental health care needs of veterans. “Men and women who have served our country may come to the VA seeking care and not know where to look for mental health services. This bipartisan, bicameral bill equips veterans with the best guide to care: a fellow veteran,” said Rep. Peters. “I urge the House to consider this legislation quickly to make sure veterans can access this critical service, and combat the pervasive stigma associated with accessing mental health services.” If enacted, the bill would expand the existing peer counselor program, which was created by a 2012 Executive Order that required the VA to hire and train 800 peer specialists before 2014. Specifically, the PEER Act embeds the peer counselors into patient-aligned care teams (PACT) into an additional 25 VA healthcare sites, providing expanded access to counseling services as part of primary care and in underserved areas. “The VA’s existing peer-to-peer counseling program has already seen great success in helping veterans in their time of need, and Congress should build upon this proven foundation” said Rep. Coffman. “Integrating mental health counseling in VA’s primary care teams provides an additional entry point to engage veterans suffering from PTSD or other mental health conditions. As a Marine Corps combat veteran, I believe it is critical to ensure those who have fought in defense of our freedom get the proper access to care they deserve and the proven benefits of peer support.” The bill also requires regular reports to Congress on the effectiveness of this program. Peer specialists are identified by the VA as veterans who have recovered or are recovering from a mental health condition for at least a year and are certified by a nonprofit or a state according to a VA-determined process. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Roy Blunt (R-MO) introduced an identical bill to H.R. 5830, which passed unanimously in the Senate in January. Reps. Peters and Coffman have long championed veterans’ counseling and access to mental health services. Both serve on the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs and have worked in finding bipartisan solutions to better the care and services veterans receive nationwide.
05.18.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after the partisan Farm Bill failed to pass the House: “The Farm Bill is classic proof of why enduring legislation has to be bipartisan. Any sincere effort to reach out to Democrats would’ve resulted in a bill that easily could have had 300 votes. This is such a break from tradition, and really demonstrates the failure of Republicans and Paul Ryan in particular. Both parties have to ask for bipartisanship from their own leaders.”
05.16.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass the VA MISSION Act, legislation that improves access to health care for all veterans, by expanding the Veterans’ Administration (VA) Caregiver program to veterans of all eras, extending VA Choice funding for a year, promoting multi-state telehealth and creating a review commission to evaluate how VA medical care property can be better managed. “Our veterans deserve the best treatment and care. This bill expands the VA Caregiver program to increase funding and resources available to the loved ones of veterans who are caring for our vets in need in the comfort of their own homes,” said Rep. Peters. “This means that more veterans with serious injuries or disabilities, regardless of when they served, can continue to stay at home and avoid moving to a care facility.” This legislation also includes provisions to ensure the timely scheduling of appointments to provide greater continuity of care, and an Asset and Infrastructure Review that better evaluates the state of the VA’s existing medical care facilities. Rep. Peters voted for this bill in the Veterans’ Affairs Committee last week. Rep. Peters continues to champion the expansion of veterans’ access to mental health care, introducing legislation that was signed into law that expands eligibility requirements for marriage and family therapists, and introducing bipartisan legislation that designates June as National Post-Traumatic Stress Injury Awareness Month. Rep. Peters also joined his colleagues to pass legislation providing mental health care, expanding telehealth services and improving medical services for emergency and mental health care.
05.15.2018	Today, U.S. Congressmen Scott Peters (CA-52), and Larry Bucshon, M.D. (IN-8), introduced a bipartisan bill that would give patients greater access to innovative non-opioid alternatives for postoperative pain management. “The opioid crisis has devastated communities across the country. This bill will replace an existing incentive to prescribe opioids with an incentive to create less-expensive, less addictive painkillers,” said Rep. Peters. “In countless communities across Indiana and the nation, the opioid epidemic is leaving families broken and communities in crisis,” said Dr. Bucshon. “One of the ways to address the crisis is to prevent patients from misusing or becoming addicted to opioids in the first place by promoting the use of non-opioid alternatives to address a patient’s pain. Unfortunately, certain Medicare policies disincentivize the use of non-opioid alternatives. This, in turn, deadlocks innovation and development of new non-opioid alternatives. This common-sense legislation addresses the lack of non-opioid alternatives for post-surgical pain management and begins to move our society away from the destructive crisis raging nationwide. Physicians and patients need access to additional effective pain management options that do not come with a serious risk of dependence.” Existing rate-setting policies at the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) encourage providers to prescribe opioids, which are relatively cheap. Today, non-opioid pain medications are cost-prohibitive for hospitals and physicians, resulting in stagnation of research and innovation in non-opioid pain management options. This bill improves incentives for innovation through additional payments for non-opioid pain management alternatives. To qualify for payment under this policy, non-opioid alternatives must demonstrate a substantial clinical improvement compared to the benefits of available drugs on the market. According to the Office of the Inspector General, 1 in 3 Medicare Part D beneficiaries received a prescription opioid in 2016. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) estimates that in 2016, 11.5 million Americans misused prescription opioids and more than 2 million Americans had an opioid-use disorder. That is in part because opioids are frequently prescribed as the pre-approved, cheap pain management option for many surgical procedures. Many health care professionals and patient advocacy groups have flagged this as an issue and have asked Congress to fix it as part of any legislative initiative to fight the opioid crisis. “I want to commend Representatives Peters and Bucshon for their legislation creating new incentives for non-opioids in the post-surgical setting. As an organization representing over 4,500 interventional pain physicians across the country it is critical patients have access to new, innovative therapies to treat post-surgical pain,” said Laxmaiah Manchikanti, MD, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the American Society of Interventional Pain Physicians. “I would like to commend Congressmen Peters and Bucshon for proposing this legislation and taking an important first step toward reducing the number of people that become addicted to opioids through the surgical setting. It is my hope that, through this bill, physicians, patients and families will gain access to new effective non-opioid pain management options to address postsurgical pain, lessening exposure to opioids and stopping addiction before it starts,” said Travis Bornstein, Founder of Hope United. The legislation was introduced less than a week after Rep. Peters helped pass a package of bipartisan opioid bills out of the Energy and Commerce Committee. In 2016, he helped pass more than a dozen bills aimed at a comprehensive solution to the opioid crisis, the use of new technology for U.S. Customs and Border Patrol to fight the spread of fentanyl, and the passage of the 21st Century Cures Act with significant funding boosts directed at addressing opioid abuse. .
05.10.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) joined 339 of his colleagues to permit the Department of Energy to begin disposal of millions of pounds of nuclear waste from the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station (SONGS) in San Diego. The Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act authorizes the first transfer of nuclear waste to permanent storage in the Yucca Mountain Nuclear Waste Repository, a secure site in Nevada that would allow for safe storage. The SONGS site is sandwiched between the Pacific Ocean, one of the biggest bodies of water in the world, and Interstate 5, one of the nation’s most traveled freeways. The area is home to 8 million residents. “We need long-term solutions to nuclear waste storage, especially in San Diego, where nuclear-spent fuel is stored just yards away from the ocean,” said Rep. Peters. “For too long, Congress has stalled on ensuring our nuclear storage is secure. I advocated for the inclusion of interim storage measures in this bill because nuclear waste should not be left to accumulate near cities and environmentally sensitive areas. This bill finally takes steps to move spent fuel from sensitive areas like San Onofre to a long-term federal facility.” Rep. Peters continued, “As sea levels rise due to climate change, the risk to existing storage at SONGS will only increase. This bipartisan legislation is our best chance to mitigate a crisis.” Last year, Rep. Peters offered an amendment in the Energy and Commerce meeting on nuclear waste to direct efforts to free up spent nuclear fuel and place it in interim storage and helped pass the bill though the committee. During his time as an environmental lawyer, Rep. Peters worked to ensure that organizations were in compliance with toxic waste storage. Since becoming a member of Congress, Rep. Peters has helped pass a series of bills that enhance nuclear energy technology.
05.09.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after President Trump announced his intention to pull out of Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) between Iran, the U.S., European allies, China, and Russia: “I voted for the Iran deal because it made sure that America was at the table to negotiate. This action devastates America’s position as a reliable world leader, and emboldens Iranian political extremism. I stand ready to work with my colleagues to support international peace and security, and mitigate consequences of this irresponsible decision,” said Rep. Peters.
05.08.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52), highlighted the markup and favorable report out of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee of his bipartisan legislation requiring the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to award contracts to multiple regional providers for medical supplies. This requirement would drive health care prices down in the Medical/Surgical Prime Vendor (MSPV) program by increasing transparency and creating competition. “The Veterans’ Affairs Committee quickly moved to consider this bill because it’s an important step to increase transparency, create competition, and drive health care pricing down. It requires the VA to award contracts to at least two regional prime vendors for medical supplies, and instructs doctors, nurses, and other medical professionals to decide which supplies and devices are needed to offer the best care,” said Rep. Peters. “It makes sure the right people are at the table to make clinical decisions, so veterans get better access to the quality care they deserve.” This bill addresses problems identified in a December 2017 Government Accountability Office (GAO) report that highlighted high costs, a lack of efficiency, and a lack of competition in the current purchasing structure for medical and surgical supplies. The Veterans’ Affairs Committee also passed legislation that extends funding for the VA Choice Program for a year and expands the VA’s Post-9/11 Caregiver Program to all eras. Rep. Peters joined his colleagues to pass an additional series of bipartisan bills out of committee, including the following measures: H.R. 299, the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act of 2017 (provides long-sought disability benefits for 90,000 Vietnam Navy veterans exposed to Agent Orange) H.R. 2147, the VA Treatment Court Improvement Act of 2017 (expands Veteran Treatment Courts to promote rehabilitation and address substance abuse and post-traumatic stress disorder) H.R. 4451, the Homeless Veterans' Reintegration Programs Reauthorization Act of 2017 (clarifies that veterans who are eligible for housing assistance from the Department of Housing and Urban Development, Supportive Services for Veteran Families, or Native American Housing Assistance can also receive assistance from the Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Program) H.R. 4635, Peer 2 Peer Counseling Act (directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to increase the number of peer-to-peer counselors providing counseling for women veterans) H.R. 4958, the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2018 (provides a needed increase in compensation rates for disabled veterans) H.R. 5520, the VA Medicinal Cannabis Research Act of 2018 (promotes medical research into cannabis and its use for veterans with chronic pain and post-traumatic stress disorder) Rep. Peters has long supported efforts to provide quality health care to veterans, such as his backing of legislation passed earlier this year, and efforts to reduce the stigma surrounding mental health care for veterans. Click HERE to watch Rep. Peters discuss the MSPV bill during its introduction in the Veterans’ Affairs Committee.
05.07.2018	SAN DIEGO– Last week, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) hosted a reception for the participants of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition and their families where he announced the winning submission, “Kaitlyn,” an acrylic painting by Emily Krueger of Canyon Crest Academy. The reception, which took place at The New Children’s Museum also featured a display of all the artwork submitted by San Diego high school students this year. “Congratulations to our 2018 winner, Emily, and all the participating students. Every year, I am inspired by the creativity and skills of San Diego’s young artists,” said Rep. Peters. “We’re entering a new economic era, where art is becoming a key component of in-demand jobs and the innovation that drives economic growth. These artists represent that future workforce. We look forward to welcoming Emily and her artwork in Washington, D.C.” The winning artwork, selected by professionals from local art institutions, will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. “Kaitlyn” by winner, Emily Krueger of Canyon Crest Academy. Rep. Peters joins the winner, Emily Kruger and her art teacher with “Kaitlyn.” “It’s always an honor to serve on the judging panel for the Congressional Art Competition, which highlights the creative spirit of our region’s youth,” said Kathryn Kanjo, David C. Copley Director and CEO, Museum of Contemporary Art San Diego. “Their talent, which is fostered by teachers at school and by families at home, is impressive and the winning submission will represent San Diego well at the U.S. Capitol.” “The New Children’s Museum is proud to play a role in this year’s Congressional Art Competition and I was honored to participate as one of the judges,” said Lani Bautista Cabanilla, Manager- Visitor Programs for The New Children’s Museum. “At The New Children’s Museum, our mission is to inspire young artists by introducing them to the creative process. It’s encouraging to see that same talent and love of art in these high school students.” The fan favorite, as determined by the most ‘Likes’ of the image on Rep. Peters’ Facebook page was "Clean-Up Crew” by Victoria Li of Canyon Crest Academy. Her work will be placed on display at Rep. Peters’ District Office in UTC. View all the 2018 submissions here.
05.01.2018	Five days after U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52), a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, called for the investigation of Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) top Superfund chief Albert Kelly, Kelly has resigned his position. Following the controversy surrounding Kelly’s lifetime ban from the banking industry, lack of relevant experience, and potential conflict of interest related to a Superfund site, Congressman Peters pressed EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt in last week’s hearing to compel Kelly to come before the Committee. Rep. Peters’ questions can be viewed here. “As a former environmental attorney who helped clients ensure compliance with our nation's Superfund laws, I know how critical it is that the Superfund be overseen with expertise and integrity. Given his enormous conflicts of interest and questionable qualifications, Kelly's departure is welcome news,” said Rep. Scott Peters. Rep. Peters has long worked to promote environmental protections. As a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, he will continue to hold the administration accountable to the laws that protect our air, our water, and our public lands.
04.27.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, which reauthorizes and funds the federal aviation program for the next five years, including NextGen, FAA’s program to modernize aircraft technology nationwide. The bill also contains measures to address airplane noise including studies to better understand the effect of noise on communities, programs to address the specific subsets of noise impacts, and the funding to execute these programs. “I joined the Quiet Skies Caucus in 2016 at the urging of Point Lomans and other San Diegans concerned about airplane noise, flight paths, and other changes taking place as part of a nationwide overhaul of air traffic procedures. Working with my colleagues in the Caucus, we were able to get some significant changes in this FAA authorization bill to help resolve many of the problems raised by residents,” said Rep. Peters. “These are important modifications that will help retain the quality of life in our neighborhoods.” Below are some key provisions included in the bill to address airplane noise: Directs the FAA to study health impacts of aircraft noise in partnership with higher education institutions in certain areas, including the Southern California Metroplex region. Directs the FAA Comptroller General to study the benefits of phasing out Stage 3 aircraft, which are older and louder planes according to FAA standards. Allows funding for the Airport Improvement Program to be used for noise mitigation projects. Increases community input in airport land use compatibility planning. Rep. Peters co-sponsored an amendment by Rep. Jimmy Panetta (CA-20) that directs the FAA to evaluate alternative metrics to the Day-Night Sound Level (DNL) 65 standard, a metric for determining an airport community’s cumulative exposure to sound over a 24-hour period. Certain San Diego communities experience a higher decibel level of noise during specific hours, which is minimized by this metric when averaged over the 24-hour period. Rep. Peters added, “The updates we passed today specifically address the needs of the Southern California Metroplex region, including neighborhoods that feel flight path changes affect them more then other regions. The La Jolla community, which was not traditionally as affected by airplane noise, experienced an increase in ambient noise levels when NextGen/Metroplex was implemented in San Diego. The Point Loma community has expressed concerns with Air Traffic Control redirecting planes from standard departure paths, leading to increased noise in their community. Going forward, we have better collaboration and resources to address both communities' concerns.” Additional noise mitigation amendments supported by Rep. Peters and included in the final bill: (16- Rep. Speier) Requires a Government Accountability Office report on whether air traffic controllers and airspace designers are trained to mitigate the effects of airplane noise and its health implications; and whether over-crowded departure and arrival paths are causing air traffic control to direct flights to deviate from planned arrival paths. (13- Rep. Roskam) Directs the FAA Administrator to study the relationship between jet aircraft approach and takeoff speeds and airplane noise on communities surrounding airports and submit the results of the study in a report to Congress. As a member of the Quiet Skies Caucus, Rep. Peters has worked with other Members of Congress, whose districts are affected by airplane noise and NextGen Metroplex implementation. Rep. Peters has also worked directly with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the San Diego County Regional Airport Authority (Airport Authority) for several years, advocating on behalf of San Diego’s airplane noise concerns.
04.24.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced a $1.17 million Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) grant to address one of the wastewater collectors that failed and caused major sewage spills that continue to flow into San Diego waterways and beaches. Rep. Peters has fought to preserve the U.S.-Mexico Border Water Infrastructure Program (BWIP), which is the funding mechanism for water infrastructure projects, like the ones announced today. “Sewage flowing from the Tijuana River has closed our beaches, threatened the public health of San Diegans and our military, and hurt our economy,” said Rep. Peters. “As a bi-national region, it is going to take investments from both sides of the border to prevent spills and this partnership offers both the United States and Mexico a way to fix the wastewater collectors that failed and reduce the risk of future spills.” The grant is an agreement between the North American Development Bank (NADB), a binational financial institution funded by equal amounts of capital stock from the United States and Mexico, and the local water utility, Comisión de Servicios Públicos de Tijuana (CESPT) to fix one of the main wastewater collectors, Collector Poniente. The funds are administered by the U.S.-Mexico Border Water Infrastructure Grant Program, which Rep. Peters has fought to protect. Rep. Peters continued, “Part of the problem with these sewage spills was the breakdown in communication between Mexico and the U.S. We didn’t know for days. The national rhetoric coming from some has hurt our international relationships. In San Diego, we value our relationship with Mexico and we want to continue to work with Mexico as a valuable regional partner so we can solve this problem.” Rep. Peters has worked to support funding and programs to address the Tijuana sewage spill and strengthen our partnership with Mexico to ensure environmental and public health on both sides of the border. Last year, Rep. Peters worked with Sen. Dianne Feinstein and the entire San Diego congressional delegation to raise the alarm when the president’s budget eliminated the U.S.-Mexico Border Water Infrastructure Program. Together, they fought to protect the program. He also sent a letter to United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer asking that renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement include stronger environmental protections, including a commitment from the Mexican government to invest in wastewater infrastructure. Most recently, he advocated for $10 million in funding for the U.S.-Mexico Border Water Infrastructure Program, which was included in the omnibus spending bill passed by Congress last month. The grant announced today was funded by this $10 million.
04.19.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) was honored by the Biotechnology Innovation Organization with the “Innovator in Biotechnology” award, which recognizes Members of Congress who have championed the biotechnology and life science industries, a key economic sector for the San Diego region that is creating life-changing and life-saving advances, as well as tens of thousands of jobs of the future. “San Diego’s life science industry is creating innovative therapies, medical devices, and cures that have the potential to improve and save lives,” said Rep. Peters. “I’ve worked to support this dynamic sector during my time in Congress, so it can continue to grow and create jobs in our region. I’m honored to receive this award from the Biotechnology Innovation Organization, which has supported our shared goal to advance the game-changing discoveries happening in this industry.” Rep. Peters receives the Innovator in Biotechnology Award from Biotechnology Innovation Organization (BIO) members. Throughout his time in Congress, Rep. Peters has advocated for federal support and investment in biotechnology. Last month, Rep. Peters helped pass a $3 billion boost for basic scientific research through the National Institutes of Health. He is also working to support the development of algae in agriculture, as co-chair of the Congressional Algae Caucus. Rep. Peters was named “Legislator of the Year” by the Biotechnology Innovation Organization in 2016 and “Elected Official of the Year” by San Diego-based Biocom in 2015, 2014, and 2007. He also received the Visionary Award from California Life Sciences Association (formerly the California Healthcare Institute) in 2014.
04.18.2018	Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) introduced the Reserve Component Vocational Rehabilitation Parity Act to extend Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E) services provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to reservists and guardsmen who are called to serve during times of war or national emergency. Under current law, the Department of Defense can authorize the involuntary activation of up to 60,000 troops for up to a year to support preplanned operations of a combatant commander per 12304b authority. However, reservists involuntarily mobilized under this law do not accrue service time to become eligible for all benefits. The bill would correct this inconsistency by extending vocational rehabilitation services, including career and academic guidance on using VA benefits to achieve career goals, to all servicemembers who deploy for preplanned missions. “Our veterans bravely answered the call to serve our nation and they have earned their full benefits,” said Rep. Peters. “These men and women all deserve our support as they begin their careers or go back to school, regardless of how and when they serve. We need to ensure guardsmen and reservists have the same opportunities as the rest of our veterans.” The Reserve Component Vocational Rehabilitation Parity Act is cosponsored by fellow House Veterans Affairs Committee members Ranking Member Rep. Tim Walz (MN-01), O&I Subcommittee Chairman Jack Bergman (MI-01), Julia Brownley (CA-26), Steven Palazzo (MS-04), Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), Beto O’Rourke (TX-16), and Ann McLane Kuster (NH-02). The bill is supported by the National Guard Association of the United States and the Reserve Officers Association. “Having served in and commanded the United States Marine Corps Reserves, I know first-hand the unique and vital role that our nation’s guardsmen and reservists hold in our military,” said Rep. Bergman. “This bill will provide parity to those who have served our country as a reservist or guardsman by offering the same vocational rehab benefits as active duty personnel, allowing them to prepare for, obtain, and maintain suitable employment after their military service.” “Service members who wear the same uniform and do the same job should get the same pay and the same benefits,” said Rep. Walz. “The Reserve Component Vocational Rehabilitation Parity Act is an important step in our work to ensure fairness for our Guard members and Reservists mobilized under 12304b authority.” “We need to ensure that our veterans have access to the benefits they have earned, as well as the resources to succeed after their service – including all National Guard Members and Reservists who bravely serve our country,” said Rep. Brownley. “The Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Program provides critical job training, and there is no reason all veterans with service-connected disabilities shouldn’t be able to benefit from it. I thank Congressman Peters for introducing this bill, which is an important step forward to support our Guard and Reserve members, and I urge my colleagues in Congress to lift the time limit altogether to benefit veterans of all ages.”
04.12.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted against a proposed amendment to the Constitution that would require Congress to pass a balanced federal budget, calling it “profoundly hypocritical” for House Republicans to call for a balanced budget just weeks after they passed a tax cut plan that adds $1.8 trillion dollars to the national deficit in a decade. The bill, passed along a party line vote today, would severely hinder Congress’ ability to fund certain programs, would lead to uncertainty in the budget process, and fails to identify meaningful spending decreases and revenue increases that could actually lead to deficit reduction and a more balanced budget. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “Since coming to Congress, I’ve been calling on both sides to come to the table and have a serious discussion about new revenues and targeted spending cuts that will lead to reducing our national deficit over time. I remain committed to working with anyone to make the tough decisions we were sent here to make; this bill is not the answer and does nothing to actually fix Washington’s bad budgeting habits. Republicans seem to think this amendment will make us forget their constant attempts to blow up the national debt—their tax bill alone adds $1.8 trillion to the deficit over the next ten years. Today’s political move is profoundly hypocritical and does nothing to fix our mounting national debt. It’s astonishing that ‘the party of fiscal responsibility’ is pushing this proposal when debt is on track to overtake the size of our economy by 2028 and Congress has no plans to pass a budget this year. Our economy can’t afford for Congress to keep playing games with our national debt. We need a long-term, fiscally responsible budget—not a gimmick to compensate for irresponsible spending.”
04.11.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) called on Facebook to assure the American people they will take better steps to protect online privacy and data collection to prevent a massive breach of user information and ensure third-party apps do not misuse any data they are sold. Rep. Peters suggested that any company gathering personal information from online users must take steps to ensure that data is protected, user consent is received, and that the process adheres to federal regulations. “Would it be reasonable for Congress to define the legal duty of privacy that’s owed by private companies to their customers, with respect to their personal information?” asked Rep. Peters. Mark Zuckerberg, CEO of Facebook, responded, “I think [that] makes sense to discuss and I agree with the broader point that I think you’re making, which is that the internet and technology overall is just becoming a much more important part of all of our lives.” Rep. Peters continued, “Would it not be appropriate for us, once we define this duty, to assess financial penalties in a way that would sufficiently send a signal to the shareholders and to your employees…that the privacy you’re so concerned about is a bottom line issue at Facebook?” Mr. Zuckerberg replied that he believed there is some conflict between public and business interests. Users are looking for a social experience, but want their information to remain private; the question is which of those user interests should be weighed more. Rep. Peters concluded, “Some of this data got away from us and I’d suggest to you that if there were financial consequences—that made a difference to the business, not people dropping their Facebook accounts—that it would get more attention. It’s not so much a business model choice…but it’s that these issues aren’t getting the bottom line attention that I think would have given them a priority, with respect to Facebook.” Click here or the image above to watch Rep. Peters question Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg. Last month, it was reported that millions of Facebook profiles were harvested for Cambridge Analytica, a company headed at the time by Steve Bannon, Trump’s key advisor. The collected data was also used to micro-target political ads to U.S. voters in the 2016 election.
04.11.2018	U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after Speaker Paul Ryan announced he will retire at the end of his term: “I first met Paul Ryan in the House gym, where we used to work out together in my first term. Although he and I rarely agree on political issues, he is a decent guy who’s dedicated to his family and his country. When Paul became Speaker, I hoped he’d be unafraid to stand up to extremism, whether within his own party or later from the Trump Administration. That hasn’t happened yet, but now that Paul Ryan is unburdened by political concerns, I hope that he will try harder to work across the aisle on taxes, DACA, our national debt, the Mueller investigation and gun safety, and that he’ll stand up to Donald Trump when he surely knows that Trump is wrong. I’ve been disappointed, but hold out hope and urge him now, unburdened by politics, to do the right thing in his remaining months. He would certainly have my support. I wish Paul and his family the very best in his life after the House of Representatives.”
04.04.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) offered his prayers for the MCAS Miramar-based servicemembers, who are presumed dead, following the helicopter crash in Imperial County that occurred Tuesday afternoon. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “I want to offer my deepest condolences to the families and loved ones of our fallen heroes. My office will be closely following the Marine Corps investigation as they look into the details and causes of this tragic crash. Their report will give Congress a better idea of what we can do to prevent these crashes—whether we need to address readiness, training, oversight, or other factors—and how we can better equip our troops to ensure this won’t happen again. I stand ready to do whatever I can to help should the report identify that congressional action is needed.”
03.29.2018	U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52), a member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, released the following statement in response to the firing of Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin: “I want to thank Dr. Shulkin for his service to our country—he was supported by many of us in Congress and veterans across the country—and we accomplished a lot together from the Forever GI Bill to modernizing the appeals process. I was extremely disappointed by his misuse of taxpayer funds, but his work on behalf of our nation’s veterans was one of the few positive contributions of Trump’s Administration. The chaos and high turnover of this administration has been a disservice to the country, and now it will affect the VA and our veterans who deserve our respect and the care we promised to them in return for their service to this great nation. I have serious concerns that this firing signals misguided efforts to privatize the VA or force veterans into a for-profit health care system. Most important, I want San Diego veterans to know I will continue working to improve the quality and ease of access to care that they have earned and that I will remain vigilant in my work on their behalf to ensure that a change in leadership does not undermine these goals. While we need to expand options for veterans, privatization is not the answer. President Trump’s nominee, Adm. Jackson, must uphold our promise to veterans and show he is committed to protecting the veterans in San Diego and across the country who rely on the VA for care.”
03.29.2018	Today, on Vietnam Veterans Day, Rep. Scott Peters is honoring Vietnam-era veterans at events in San Diego by presenting them with lapel pins created as part of the United States of America Vietnam War Commemorative Partner Program. The program was created in 2008 by the Department of Defense so organizations can host events and find other ways to help “a grateful nation in thanking and honoring our Vietnam veterans and their families for their service, valor, and sacrifice.” This morning, Rep. Peters presented approximately 40 Vietnam-era veterans and their spouses with the lapel pins at a ceremony held as part of the Honoring our Vietnam Veterans 50th Anniversary War Commemoration Resource Fair hosted by the VA San Diego Regional Benefit Office. Peters stated: “After eleven years of combat, the veterans who made it back home were forever changed: many returned bearing physical scars and others returned with the invisible burden of haunting visions and other effects of post-traumatic stress. Unfortunately, they also returned to a nation who greeted them with hate and indifference, due to the controversial nature of U.S. involvement in Vietnam. That blame should have never been placed on heroes who served their country.” “This year, my office became a commemorative partner with the United States of America Vietnam War Commemoration, a program to recognize the tremendous sacrifices of Vietnam-era veterans; highlight the contributions made on the home front; and celebrate the advances made in science, technology, medicine, and military research during the war. It’s an honor to meet San Diego Vietnam veterans and their families and present commemorative lapel pins as a small token from a grateful nation.” Rep. Peters pinning San Diego Vietnam veterans and their families. Later today, he will present lapel pins to another 40 to 50 Vietnam-era veterans at a private event in Point Loma. Additionally, early this morning, Peters joined military, veteran, and community leaders for a tour of Veterans Village of San Diego to learn about what they currently need to better serve our veterans.
03.23.2018	This week, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) introduced the bipartisan Algae Agriculture Act of 2018, which would support the development of algae innovation by updating U.S. agricultural policy to ensure this new and emerging sector is eligible for the same investment opportunities as other agricultural sectors. All four co-chairs of the Congressional Algae Caucus are original sponsors. “San Diego has shown algae has the potential to change the way we look at fuel, manufactured products, and more,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “UC San Diego’s cutting-edge research is deploying algae to make products like flip-flops and surfboards, while business leaders like Cellana are using algae to capture CO2 and produce biofuels. Algae also offers significant benefits for agriculture and we need to ensure we’re maximizing innovative ways to use it.” Rep. Peters with an algae-based surfboard he purchased from UC San Diego. The Algae Agriculture Act of 2018 expands eligibility requirements for agricultural research and commodity programs to include algae, a diverse group of plant-like organisms that contain proteins and oils that can be used as biofuels and nutrition. Key eligibility expansions include: Rural Electrification Assistance: Provides explicit eligibility for Carbon Capture and Use (CCU) and other emissions mitigation projects for rural electric cooperatives. Agriculture and Food Research Priorities: Updates the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s National Institute of Food and Agriculture to include algae and its applications in agriculture. Foundation for Food and Agriculture Research: Updates research priorities for the Foundation for Food and Agriculture, a nonprofit research institute that studies the economic and environmental resilience of our food supply, to include algae. Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program: Allows producers to insure algae and receive financial assistance when low yields, loss of inventory, or prevented planting occur due to natural disasters. “Arizona’s Fifth District is home to the ASU Center for Algae and Technology Innovation, the Algae Testbed Public-Private Partnership, and Heliae Development,” said Rep. Andy Biggs (AZ-05). “Arizona’s climate and strong partnership between academia, industry, and community leaders makes the ideal environment for all algae operations.” “The Batelle Marine Science Lab in Sequim is at the forefront of research into the use of algae as a biofuel,” Rep. Derek Kilmer (WA-06) said. “That means this effort isn’t about growing algae — it’s about growing jobs. Congress should support this innovation so America can explore this green energy’s promising possibilities.” “Facilities such as the Corbion and Alluvian plants in Peoria find new ways to utilize algae every day,” Rep. Darin LaHood (IL-18) said. “That is why I am proud to co-sponsor this bill, which will ensure that algae researchers like those in my district can obtain the investments they need to continue innovating.” “Although algae look a little different from your typical row crop, they offer incredible opportunities in human health, animal feed, and industrial uses like fuels and plastics,” said Matt Carr, Executive Director of the Algae Biomass Organization. “This bipartisan bill will help accelerate commercial development of algae-based technologies, creating jobs, exportable products and ushering a new era for agriculture. We thank Congressman Peters as well as Congressmen Biggs, Kilmer and LaHood for their vision and support of this bill.” The bill also authorizes studies on other benefits of algae production and use, including its potential for ecosystem support for crops and animals, nutrient management and soil heath, production infrastructure, and other ways to deploy algae as an agricultural solution.
03.22.2018	Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass a federal spending plan that boosts investment in San Diego priorities Peters has fought for since being elected to Congress. It increases the budget for the National Institutes of Health by $3 billion, gives our troops their largest pay raise in more than 10 years, and provides $10 million to address sewer spills along the Tijuana River. The Consolidated Appropriations Act, which appropriates Federal spending for the remainder of the 2018 fiscal year, passed the House by a broad bipartisan vote of 256-167. Peters issued the following statement: “The spending package passed today funds several critical priorities I’ve fought for since coming to Congress such as keeping our kids safer from gun violence, addressing sewer spills that have plagued San Diego’s border communities, and increased assistance for homeless men, women, and children,” said Peters. “Earlier today, I opposed a procedural measure pushed by Speaker Ryan to deny a vote to give Dreamers the certainty they deserve. However, the Speaker’s measure to exclude a fix for Dreamers did pass over my objections; ultimately, I supported the overall spending package because of the many critical investments it makes in San Diego, in gun safety, and in our national defense. “The important gun and school safety measures included in the bill are a first step toward keeping our communities and our children safe from gun violence. I have long supported the Fix NICS Act to improve background check reporting and am very pleased that Concealed Carry Reciprocity was struck out of the bill. I still believe strongly that we must do more,” he added. Concealed Carry Reciprocity would have forced California to allow individuals to carry weapons without scrutiny by California law enforcement. The bill passed today also included the STOP Act which will provide schools in San Diego and around the country with money to improve security. In addition, it struck down the Dickey Amendment which for the past 20 years has banned the Centers for Disease Control from studying the public health effects of gun violence. In addition to the priorities described above, the bill funded several other priorities the Congressman has fought for on behalf of San Diego. It protects wildfire prevention funds that in previous years were being robbed to pay for emergency fire suppression. This will allow communities to take steps to prevent wildfires before they happen. Wildfires cost the United States more than $10 billion in 2017, the most expensive year on record. The bill also increases scientific and alternative energy research funding. The Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) received $47 million or 15 percent increase in its budget, the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Association (NOAA) received a $234 million or 4 percent increase, and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) received a $1 billion or 5 percent increase. This funding will support critical research activities in San Diego and around the country. Peters has consistently rejected attempts to defund or cut funds for these agencies. The spending plan includes $1.6 billion in border security for maintenance of existing structures, as well as investments in innovative border security technology, such as tunnel detection systems. Border Patrol requested this technology to stop drug and gun smugglers and human traffickers. Peters met with President Trump last year and urged him directly to spend border security funds on this technology instead of a wall. Other Highlights: Increases funding for subway/light rail systems by $232 million. Provides a $1 billion increase for TIGER grants that have supported projects such as the expansion of the 10th Ave. Marine Terminal at the Port of San Diego. Reauthorizes the Federal Aviation Administration through the end of the fiscal year. Increases the budget for the Department of Veterans Affairs by $7 billion, including an additional $2 billion for infrastructure investments. Provides $40 million in additional funding for the HUD-VASH program to support homeless veterans. Increases funding for Pell grants by $1.9 billion total, or by $175 dollars per recipient. Appropriates $3.2 billion to bolster efforts to combat opioid addiction. Supports Russia cyberattack investigation and election security funding by increasing the budget for the Federal Bureau of Investigation by $307 million. Provides $660 billion in total for the Department of Defense. Appropriates $8.1 billion for the EPA.
03.19.2018	U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced his support for the Special Counsel Independence Protection Act, which would create a judicial check on the executive branch’s ability to remove a special counsel. He released the following statement regarding protecting Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation. “We have to fight to protect our democracy every day, and it is well past time for my Republican colleagues to stand with us in bipartisan defense of our electoral process,” said Rep. Peters. “Earlier this month, I cosponsored the Special Counsel Independence Protection Act, an important step toward ensuring that Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation can continue unimpeded. The American people deserve transparency and Congress must stand together as patriots and allow Robert Mueller to finish his work. I call on Speaker Ryan to schedule this important Act for a vote. Peters additionally cosponsored the Protecting Our Democracy Act, which would create a National Commission on Foreign Interference in the 2016 Election to allow for a full Congressional investigation unimpeded by jurisdictional and partisan barriers.
03.16.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued the following statement on the passing of his colleague Louise Slaughter who succumbed to injuries she suffered after falling in her home. “Louise Slaughter will be remembered as a tireless advocate for women and for working families, and also for her kindness, resiliency, and unwavering belief in doing what’s right. She will always be a trailblazer for future generations of women leaders. I will miss her in Congress and I extend my deepest sympathies to her family, staff, and constituents of New York’s 25th district.” Louise Slaughter has served in the House of Representatives since 1987, and was the first woman to serve as the Chair of the House Rules Committee.
03.15.2018	Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted for the STOP School Violence Act, which reauthorizes the Secure Our Schools grant program to provide training for school personnel on preventing violence and technical assistance to develop threat assessment and procedures to anonymously report emergencies. The bill does not allow for taxpayers dollars to be spent on training teachers to handle firearms or for the purchase of firearms. Peters continues to be a vocal leader for congressional action to curb the terrible gun violence epidemic in the United States. Peters supports the Assault Weapons Ban of 2018, which would prohibit the sale, transfer, manufacture, and importation of assault-style weapons. As a member of the Congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, he has also cosponsored bills to improve our background check system, ban the sale of high capacity magazines, and ban individuals on the terror watch list from being able to buy guns. “Finally, Congress is taking an important step toward addressing the gun violence epidemic in schools,” said Rep. Peters. “This will help schools prepare for an emergency, but we cannot stop here. We still need commonsense, bipartisan gun safety measures. San Diegans and Americans all over the country are demanding Congress hear their voice and act. There is so much more we can do to prevent these horrific tragedies and it pains me that Republican leadership refuses to let us vote on these bills.” A recent Quinnipiac poll shows that 97 percent of gun owners support reforming our nation’s background check system, 67 percent of American voters support a nationwide ban on the sale of assault weapons, and 66 percent of American supports want stricter gun laws. Peters continued, “It’s time to make our background check system work better; to take to take weapons of war out of our schools and off our streets; and for Congress to come together and do the right thing. I will continue to raise the volume on this issue until I believe Congress has done its job.”
03.14.2018	This week, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass two bills that improve the access to health care for veterans and increase the penalty for those who defraud veterans in pursuit of their benefits. According to the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce and the U.S. Census Bureau, San Diego County has the third-largest veteran population in the nation. Every year, more than 20,000 sailors and marines stationed in San Diego leave military service and roughly a third choose to stay. “Veterans have earned our respect and they’ve earned their benefits; America owes it to them to keep our promise to support them after their service,” said Rep. Peters. “Those attempting to defraud our veterans must be held accountable and stopped.” The State Veterans Home Adult Health Care Improvement Act of 2017 allows veterans to receive adult-day medical care in a state veterans’ home, this would expand on current law that allows these same benefits in a state nursing home. The Preventing Crimes against Veterans Act of 2017 would increase penalties for those who attempt to defraud a veteran in pursuit of obtaining their veterans’ benefits. There are many organizations, including Congressional offices, that will help veterans get the benefits they’re owed free of charge. Since 2013, Peters and his San Diego office have helped recover $1.4 million in veterans benefits owed to San Diego veterans.
03.12.2018	Rep. Peters released the following statement after President Trump blocked Broadcom’s proposed buyout of San Diego-based Qualcomm, citing national security concerns: “In a letter to Treasury Secretary Mnuchin, I laid out these very same national security concerns over the hostile takeover of Qualcomm cited in the Executive Order. I requested the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) review the takeover bid for national security threats, and their latest letter to both companies said the deal would weaken Qualcomm’s leadership and give Chinese companies an edge. I’m glad the President blocked Broadcom’s bid and I’m grateful to the Administration for acting quickly before Qualcomm’s annual meeting. I’m particularly glad Broadcom’s proposed candidates are prohibited from running for election to Qualcomm’s Board of Directors. Infiltration of the Board posed a similar threat, and could have opened the U.S. to more security vulnerabilities though potential ties to the Chinese government or military. This sends a message to Broadcom and other foreign companies that this innovation is vital to national security. It also reinforces to Qualcomm that it is on the right path and it should continue innovating. Qualcomm is leading in the rollout of 5G technology across the nation and this takeover threatened San Diego’s economy, jobs, and intellectual property in addition to our national security and telecommunications infrastructure. This order rightfully shields Qualcomm from a takeover, so the U.S. can continue to compete in the global technological space and San Diego can continue to lead in the deployment of revolutionary 5G technology.”
03.07.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced he will introduce a bill with Congressman Jim Banks (IN-3) that would require the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to award contracts to multiple regional providers for medical supplies. This requirement would improve the Medical/Surgical Prime Vendor (MSPV) program by increasing transparency and creating competition to drive health care prices down. “This bill will require the VA to award contracts to at least two regional prime vendors for medical supplies, a great first step to improve the MSPV program by fostering transparency and creating competition to drive prices down,” said Rep. Peters. “It’s also critical we have doctors, nurses, and other medical professionals advising on which supplies and devices are needed to create a formulary so the VA can provide proper care. Ultimately, we want to help the VA be the better business partner we know it wants to be, and we want to give veterans the best treatment by ensuring we get the right people at the table to make these clinical decisions.” Click HERE to watch Rep. Peters discuss the bill in the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs meeting today.
03.06.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass three bills to increase transparency and accountability in government. The reforms would protect the integrity of merit-based public service positions, increase support for whistleblowers, and prohibit paying for portraits of federal officers and employees with taxpayer dollars. “I can’t believe these accountability measures aren’t already law, but I’m glad we took steps to ensure the federal government is working for the people we represent,” said Rep. Peters. “It’s not always easy to monitor fraud or abuse when there are different rules for every government agency and whistleblowers are often the first to call out wasteful spending or unethical practices.” The Political Appointee Burrowing Prevention Act prohibits political appointees from accepting a career position in the federal civil service for two years after they leave their political posts. The bill also requires the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to approve each appointee’s transition to ensure their hiring is merit-based. The Whistleblower Protection Extension Act creates a permanent program to educate federal employees about their right to report government waste, fraud, and abuse by requiring each inspector general office to have a dedicated official focused on educating and empowering whistleblowers. The Eliminating Government-Funded Oil-Painting (EGO) Act of 2017 bans using taxpayer funds to pay for portraits for the President, Vice President, Cabinet members, and Members of Congress. A commissioned portrait can cost up to $40,000.
03.05.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) underscored the importance of passing a permanent solution to protect our country’s DREAMers and encouraged them to reapply and renew their DACA status. Last September, Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced that the Trump Administration would end the DACA program and cease accepting applications to it in October. In January, a federal judge in California issued a nationwide injunction blocking the Trump Administration’s attempt to rescind DACA, and a second federal judge in Brooklyn did the same last month. Both judges, in their rulings, stated DACA recipients could continue to apply to the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services for renewals to the program. Currently, the terms of the DACA policy for renewals established by the Obama Administration remain in place. Rep. Peters released the following statement on reaching President Trump’s March 5th deadline with no resolution in sight: “Today marks six months since Trump heartlessly terminated DACA without a legislative substitute,” said Rep. Peters. “DREAMers are by definition contributors to our society who know no other country but this one; it is awful that they are faced with such fear and uncertainty. President Trump fuels this self-imposed crisis by refusing to support any of the bipartisan proposals put forth by Congress. I urge our nation’s DREAMers to renew their DACA status and I want them to know that I will keep fighting for them and that the overwhelming majority of Americans are with them. I challenge President Trump and Republican leadership to match even a fraction of their bravery and take action.” Peters is a cosponsor of the DREAM Act, and an original cosponsor of the United and Securing America (USA) Act, which offers a permanent, legislative fix for our country’s DREAMers and invests in border security through new technology and border modernization.
03.05.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) boosted his plan to reduce the burden of student loan debt at the eighth annual South by Southwest (SXSW) EDU conference, which brings together innovative stakeholders to discuss the future of education. Rep. Peters spoke on the first panel, “From DC to Memphis: Solving the #StudentDebtCrisis,” about his work to help recent graduates pay down their debt. “Our nation is facing a $1.4 trillion student debt crisis, and companies across the country are realizing that helping their employees pay down their debt allows them to recruit and maintain top talent,” said Rep. Peters. “I would not have been able to attend college without student loans and a work study program, but the rising cost of college is a larger burden for today’s graduates and puts a strain on our whole economy.” Rep. Peters speaking at the SXSW Edu student debt panel. Rep. Peters introduced the Employer Participation in Student Loan Assistance Act with Rep. Rodney Davis (IL-13), which encourages private employers to offer a tax-free benefit to help employees pay back up to $5,250 in student loans annually. Rep. Peters also introduced the Federal Student Loan Refinancing Act to lower interest rates on all federal student loans to 4 percent and allow borrowers with multiple federal student loans to consolidate and refinance to get the lowest interest rate. “Young graduates are putting off things like buying a home, starting a family, and saving for retirement—investments that help grow our economy. Employers from startups to Fortune 500 companies are offering a solution and by encouraging repayment programs across the nation, we’re closer to solving the student debt crisis, ” said Rep. Peters. The Employer Participation in Student Loan Assistance Act has 110 bipartisan cosponsors, and broad support from workers, students, and businesses across the political spectrum, including Tuition.io, which joined Rep. Peters at SXSW.
02.28.2018	This week, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted for two bills that would provide better tools for prosecutors to curb online prostitution or sex trafficking and provide training for health professionals on how to identify and treat human trafficking victims. The Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017 would increase penalties for those who deliberately support or enable online sex trafficking. The bill also amends the Communication Decency Act by clarifying that internet service providers and websites may be held liable if they allow the online promotion or facilitation of prostitution or sex trafficking. The final version of this bill included parts of the Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act of 2017, which allows victims and state attorneys to bring legal action against violators. The SOAR to Health and Wellness Act of 2017 would direct the Department of Health and Human Services to establish a training program to educate healthcare professionals to identify human trafficking victims and how to treat and care for these victims. “Human trafficking is one of the most heinous crimes and, sadly, the FBI lists San Diego as one of the ‘hot spots’ for it; we’ve got to do everything we can to stop it and protect these victims whose lives are being ruined,” said Peters. “Let’s equip law enforcement with every resource available to hold abusers and enablers accountable.” The Project Concern International (PCI), Freedom from Exploration, Free to Thrive, and Generate Hope, all San Diego advocacy organizations, strongly support this bill. In San Diego, human trafficking is the second largest underground economy after drug trafficking with an estimated $810 million in revenue. The San Diego District Attorney’s Office has stated that there are roughly 8,000 victims in San Diego alone.
02.27.2018	Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted for the Congenital Heart Futures Reauthorization Act of 2017, which authorizes $4 million in annual research grants for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) over the next four years to study the cause, diagnosis, and treatment of congenital heart disease. More than 1.3 million Americans have some form of a congenital heart defect, which can lead to heart disease without treatment. February is also American Heart Month, a federally designated event, that aims to raise awareness and educate Americans about the risks of heart disease and how to prevent it. “Most of us know someone who has been affected by heart disease, stroke, or other cardiovascular complications,” said Rep. Peters. “Investing in NIH research can help accelerate groundbreaking discoveries and improve the lives of millions of Americans and people worldwide that are affected by heart disease. San Diego also receives more NIH funding than any other metropolitan region in the country, so this boost supports the life-saving treatments developed here and fuels San Diego’s innovative research industry.” The bill also requires the NIH to report to Congress their ongoing research efforts, future research, and their areas of greatest need within one year of the bill’s enactment.
02.27.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced his support for the Assault Weapons Ban of 2018, which would prohibit the sale, transfer, manufacture, and importation of assault-style weapons. Peters has been a consistent, vocal leader in Congress calling for action to curb the deadly epidemic of mass shootings. Peters played a major role in the anti-gun violence sit-in Democratic members of Congress held in 2016 to protest the Republicans’ refusal to act on even the most straightforward gun safety measures following the massacre at the Pulse nightclub. When Republicans turned off the House cameras to deny the American people access to the action, Peters broadcast the sit in to the world via Periscope. “I’m in disbelief that even when our country is suffering from a woefully apparent gun violence epidemic, Republican leadership continues to ignore the cry from the American people to do something about it,” said Rep. Peters. “I strongly support the Second Amendment and the rights of responsible gun owners; however, there is no reason for civilians to possess these weapons of war that are being used in these mass shootings at concerts, churches and even to slaughter children at their schools. I’m angry, embarrassed, and deeply troubled by Republicans’ unwillingness to protect our children. How many more tragedies will we have to endure before Congressional Republicans decide to stand up to the gun lobby? It is well past the time for Congress to act.” Peters is a member of the Congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force and has cosponsored bills to reform our background check system, ban the sale of high capacity magazines, and ban individuals on the terror watch list from being able to buy guns. He also opposed two votes this session of Congress, brought forward by Republicans that were steps backward. The first repealed a rule instituted by the Obama administration that required the Social Security Administration to share with the National Instant Criminal Background Check System when individuals have been determined to lack the mental capacity to manage their own finances. The second would require all states to recognize concealed carry permits from every other state, even those that have weaker or no standards. According to a recent Quinnipiac poll, 97 percent of gun owners support closing the loopholes in our nation’s gun background check laws, 67 percent of American voters support a nationwide ban on the sale of assault weapons, and 66 percent of American voters support overall stricter gun laws. Peters continued, “I am ready to make our background check system work better and ready to ban bump stocks, high-capacity magazines, and deadly assault-style weapons that have caused so much sorrow throughout our nation. The American people are ready. I will not allow for these heartbreaks to become the norm and something we accept. I promise to never be silenced, to continue to be outspoken, and to continue to fight for commonsense safety measures to reduce the chances of another tragedy happening again.” Last week, Peters shared letters from San Diegans asking for Congress to take action to reduce gun violence on his Twitter and Facebook pages.
02.21.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced that he will be sharing on social media letters he received from San Diegans, many of them from students, pleading for Congress to address our country’s gun epidemic after the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, which killed 17 people. Peters is a member of the Congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force and has been a consistent, vocal advocate for Congressional action to address gun violence. Since first coming to Congress in 2013, just weeks after the mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary, Peters has cosponsored many pieces of legislation aimed at reducing gun violence. These bills include critical reforms to our background check laws, a ban on the sale of high capacity magazines, and a ban on the sale of assault-style weapons. Peters also brought transparency and heightened awareness to the Democratic anti-gun violence sit-in 2016 via Periscope when Republican Leadership refused to allow the public to witness the Democrat protest of the GOP’s refusal to act to protect our families. “Since the Parkland tragedy last week, I’ve received more than 650 letters from San Diegans – many of them students – who are hurt, scared, and angry that their national leaders refuse to act to protect them from being mowed down by gunfire in a public place,” said Rep. Peters. “It’s horrifying, maddening, and unbelievable that my Republican colleagues won’t even allow a vote on something as simple as universal background checks. It’s well past the time for Congress to act. I urge San Diegans and all Americans across the country to never be scared into silence and never accept these heartbreaks as the new norm. I stand strong by my commitment to fight for commonsense solutions to reduce gun violence. I hope these letters can persuade my Republican colleagues to do something to protect our children, families, and fellow Americans.” Peters will be sharing the letters from San Diegans asking for Congress to address gun violence on his Twitter and Facebook pages.
02.15.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) passed the ADA Education and Reform Act of 2017 in the U.S. House of Representatives, a bipartisan bill he helped introduce to increase compliance with the American’s with Disabilities Act (ADA), improve access to public and private spaces for disabled Americans, and to stop bad actors who are abusing the law for their own personal gain. The final bill also incorporated several important amendments adopted today to improve the legislation by addressing concerns that disability advocates had raised. “The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) is critical to protecting every American’s right to accessing public and private spaces. That’s why we must stop bad actors who are abusing this landmark civil rights law for their own personal financial gain and standing in the way of real improvements to access,” said Rep. Peters. “This bipartisan bill allows business owners to spend their money to fix problems and improve accessibility, rather than paying off lawyers to settle cookie cutter lawsuits.” Click HERE to watch Rep. Peters speak in support of the bill on the House floor. Peters continued, “Notice-and-cure provisions like the ones in this bill are common prerequisites for private right of action lawsuits, including in federal civil rights laws. It makes sense to give small business owners a chance to fix problems before they are dragged into court. I am open to other solutions that simultaneously eliminate this abuse and safeguard access. However, doing nothing is not the right answer.” The California legislature has already identified these lawsuits as a serious issue and took action in 2016 when Gov. Jerry Brown signed a law introduced by a Democratic State Senator and passed by the Democratic majority California State Legislature. However, even with the legislature’s attempted reform, California still accounts for 36% of all ADA lawsuits across the United States. The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) established critical rights to equal access for disabled Americans; however, under the current framework, businesses that are unintentionally out of compliance with a section (Title III) of the ADA are treated the same way as bad actors who willfully break the rules. The ADA Education and Reform Act of 2017 requires the Department of Justice to establish a program to educate state and local governments and property owners on how to ensure access to public accommodations for persons with disabilities. It also amends Title III to implement a “notice-and-cure” period that allows business owners 120 days to fix the parts of their property that are in violation of the ADA before facing lawsuits and legal fees. After hearing concerns from disability advocates, Peters helped negotiate three amendments that were accepted into the final version of the bill. The first amendment clarifies that the “cure” period is a maximum of 120 days, rather than 180 days. The second amendment clearly defines that a business can only claim “substantial progress” toward addressing a barrier to access when the business can prove it is unable to comply through no fault of its own. Finally, the third amendment allows the notice to business owners to be provided in plain language, without requiring specific citations which might prove challenging for non-lawyers. For more information on this issue, you can read: My full speech delivered during debate.Coverage from ABC 10 San Diego.Coverage from the Modesto Bee.Coverage from 60 Minutes.
02.14.2018	This week, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass a series of bills that would enhance the development of energy technologies by investing in Department of Energy (DOE) research, modernizing DOE infrastructure, and expanding STEM education programs. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “Our country’s future depends on strong investment in state-of-the-art energy technologies, modernization of our nation’s energy infrastructure, and STEM education programs that prepare the next generation to address the future of energy security,” said Rep. Peters. “Congress cannot let partisan politics get in the way of investing in energy efficiency and innovation. These bills are a step in the right direction to assuring that the United States is the world leader for years to come in innovative energy technologies and STEM research.” Below are the most significant energy and innovation bills passed by the House this week: The Department of Energy Research Infrastructure Act of 2017 authorizes upgrades to Stanford’s Linac Coherent Light Source II facility, the world’s first hard X-ray free-electron laser and the Facility for Rare Isotope Beams. The Accelerating American Leadership in Science Act of 2017 authorizes upgrades to the Advanced Photon Source and the construction of a Long Baseline Neutrino Facility to provide proton power to the Spallation Neutron Source, and construction of a second station for the Spallation Neutron Source. The Nuclear Energy Research Infrastructure Act of 2017 directs the Secretary of Energy to build a Versatile Neutron Source using funds from the DOE Office of Nuclear Energy. The Low-Dose Radiation Research Act of 2017 continues to fund Department of Energy’s Low-Dose Radiation Research Program, which focuses on the health effects of ionizing radiation in the low dose range. The Building Blocks of STEM Act instructs the National Science Foundation to consider research with a focus on early childhood when awarding grants under the Discovery Research Pre-K - 12 program.
02.06.2018	Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted for the Strengthening Protections for Social Security Beneficiaries Act of 2018. The bill improves the Social Security’s Representative Payee Program by increasing oversight and protections for beneficiaries. This program assists approximately 8 million Social Security beneficiaries with financial management when they need help managing their Social Security benefits. The bill reduces reporting requirements that can be burdensome for caretakers and takes important steps to ensure that beneficiaries are not being taken advantage of by preventing individuals with certain criminal convictions from serving as representative payees. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “Taking advantage of people who need assistance with their federal benefits is a terrible crime committed upon some of the most vulnerable Americans. Since coming to Congress, I have hosted dozens of Senior Scam Seminars to arm our seniors with the tools they need to identify when someone is trying to take advantage of them,” said Rep. Peters. “Many seniors and disabled beneficiaries need help managing their finances and rely on their family, friends, or caregivers to manage their benefits for them. This bill will help make sure that individuals who offer to help Social Security beneficiaries with financial management have the beneficiaries’ best interest in mind. I know all San Diego Social Security beneficiaries will be happy to see Congress take bipartisan action toward safeguarding their Social Security.”
02.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) praised Senators Christopher Coons (D-DE) and John McCain (R-AZ) for introducing the bipartisan Uniting and Securing America (USA) Act in the Senate and called on leadership in both chambers to schedule a vote on the bills. Peters is an original cosponsor of the House version of the USA Act. Like the House version, the Senate bill offers a permanent, legislative fix for our country’s DREAMers and invests in state-of-the-art border security technology, including a study that would allow Border Patrol to determine mile-by-mile needs along the border. “Now is the time for Congress to do its job and provide the DREAMers of our country the protection and certainty they deserve,” said Rep. Peters. “I’m thankful for the leadership demonstrated by Senators McCain and Coons who have now introduced the Senate version of the USA Act. We now have another bipartisan path forward that could pass the House and Senate today. I urge Speaker Ryan to bring this legislation to the floor for a vote immediately.”
01.31.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after hearing President Trump’s first State of the Union Address: Rep. Peters was joined at the speech by San Diego DREAMer Karen Bahena. “I was heartened when I heard early reports yesterday that the President would strike a unifying tone,” said Rep. Peters. “Sadly, things took an ugly turn pretty fast last night when he tried to paint all DREAMers as gangsters and thugs. It was insulting, hurtful, and beneath the dignity of the President of a nation built on the backs of immigrants. Republicans, Democrats, and the President himself have said they support providing Dreamers with a solution. President Trump must back his words with action. We are past the point of discussion. Time is up – we need to act now.” Peters is an original cosponsor of the United and Securing America (USA) Act, which calls for a permanent legislative fix for immigrants brought to the United States as children and would help strengthen the southern border through new technology and border modernization. Peters continued, “I’m glad the President pointed to the need to make major investments in our rapidly deteriorating infrastructure. However, paying for these investments will be a challenge since he just signed into law a tax bill that adds $1.5 trillion to the deficit. Finding a path forward on a $1.5 trillion infrastructure plan will take serious, bipartisan conversation and agreement to avoid plunging our country even further into debt. “I’ve come to know and respect a lot of my Republican colleagues and I stand at the ready to work with them and President Trump, yet their actions make me question their commitment to bipartisanship. I am part of the Problem Solvers Caucus that provided Congress with a bipartisan healthcare solution and that’s why it was hard for me to see the same Republican colleagues that supported this measure stand and cheer for the idea of ripping healthcare away from millions of working families across the nation. My commitment to bipartisanship remains strong and I call the President and my Republican friends to match this same dedication.”
01.31.2018	Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted for the Defense Appropriations Act of 2018. The bill would provide $664 billion for the Department of Defense, including an additional $1.2 billion from the last defense spending bill to support the increased troop levels in Afghanistan, and $25.3 billion for Navy shipbuilding to build additional submarines, carriers, and Littoral Combat Ships (LCS). “Funding our Department of Defense is critical to protecting the American people from emerging and dynamic threats around the globe,” said Rep. Peters. “This agreement will increase the resources for our troops around the world and strengthen national security, but first it must be sent to the President’s desk to become law and that won’t happen unless Congress moves past the serial Continuing Resolutions and gets a real long-term budget deal done. I remain committed to working with anyone at any time to making that happen and I continue to urge Speaker Ryan to work with Democrats to support our troops.” Congress has already voted on four different short-term Continuing Resolutions this fiscal year and a long-term government spending bill is five months overdue. Peters continued, “Whenever I meet with military leaders, they always tell me that funding the government through continuing resolutions cripples our military’s readiness. While this bill makes the long-term investments DoD needs to counter 21st century threats, Congressional leaders and the White House still have to come to an agreement on a long-term funding package that funds the entire government. I call upon Congressional leadership to propose a bipartisan, long-term agreement to fund our government appropriately.”
01.25.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced that San Diegan Karen Bahena will be his guest at the State of the Union. Karen lived in Cuernavaca Morelos, Mexico for eight years until 2001 when her family migrated to San Diego. Thanks to DACA, Karen has been able to graduate college with a degree in Public Health and Nutrition at San Diego State University, find work as a research coordinator at the University of California, San Diego, and pursue her dreams in the field of medicine. She hopes to one day help underprivileged communities with health care needs. “Karen is a remarkable San Diegan who embodies the American mentality that if you work hard and play by the rules, then you will have an opportunity to prosper in this country,” said Rep. Peters. “There is no reason that this American Dream should not be extended to her. Karen is a smart, dedicated college graduate who aspires to be a nurse and eventually pursue medical school. “Outstanding contributors to society like Karen should not be forced out of our country, instead, they should be embraced and celebrated for making the United States a better place. A clear path forward for Dreamers must be Congress’ top priority before it is too late. I am honored to have Karen join me at the State of the Union as my guest.” Karen Bahena has 247 days left before her work permit expires. Karen continues to spread her story and advocate for the 800,000 other DACA recipients that live in a state of uncertainty for what the future holds.
01.25.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced his support for the McKinley-Thompson bill (H.R. 4392), which would reverse a Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) rule instituted by the Trump Administration that cuts payments to the 340B Drug Pricing Program by $1.6 billion. The bill would also protect Congress’ authority to set Medicare payment policy. Peters also strongly refuted statements made in advertisements currently being run in the San Diego media market. “The 340B program is critical to provide low-income patients with access to the life-saving treatments they need,” said Rep. Peters. “The cuts made by the Trump Administration to the 340B program need to be reversed. Going forward, we also must find ways to make sure the program is viable long-term; part of that is ensuring that hospitals who participate in the program are getting these critical, discounted drugs to the people for whom they’re intended. “I want people to understand my commitment to the 340B program, as well as the work that I’m doing to make sure bad actors aren’t allowed to take advantage of the program, and to ensure that it’s solvent in the long term,” Peters said. The ad campaign was prompted by legislation Peters introduced in December with Congressman Larry Bucshon, M.D. (IN-08) called the 340B Protecting Access for the Underserved and Safety-Net Entities Act (340B PAUSE Act) to address growing concerns that some hospitals are not always passing along the savings from the 340B drug discount program to their low-income patients. A report by the New England Journal of Medicine explained why greater transparency is needed; the report states "What fuels the 340B controversy is that while eligible entities can purchase drugs at a deep discount, they are reimbursed by payers at much higher rates. ​Consequently, hospitals could earn large 'profits' by dispensing these drugs. Since the hospital is the entity that is eligible for 340B purchases, patients seen in an outpatient clinic owned by that hospital can receive discounted drugs, billed at full price to their insurer." The ads suggest that the bill is an attempt to cut or end the program. That is false. The bipartisan bill would put a temporary pause on new hospitals entering the 340B program, but does not affect hospitals that currently participate in the program, nor does it place additional burdens or restrictions on Ryan White HIV/AIDS clinics, family planning clinics, Rural Health Centers, or other program grantees. It solely prevents new entrants to the program temporarily until new accountability and transparency measures can be put into place. It also calls for existing participants to begin enhanced data collection and reporting within one year. Ryan White HIV/AIDS clinics and other grantee entities are already required to comply with this type of reporting. The two-year moratorium gives Congress and the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), the federal agency that oversees the program, an opportunity to analyze how these hospitals use 340B funds and to ensure the program is helping underserved communities gain access to healthcare services. The bill comes as a response to several Congressional hearings and government oversight reports citing the lack of data and potential abuse of the 340B program. Rep. Peters continued, “Congress needs to ensure the funds are properly allocated, that there is no abuse, and the program is being used, as intended. A temporary pause on 340B will not affect hospitals already in the program and will allow for greater data transparency, appropriate oversight, and better care for patients.” Peters’ support for H.R. 4392, the McKinley-Thompson bill, and 340B PAUSE follows a letter written by him and signed by 20 other House members that was sent to Speaker Paul Ryan (WI-01) and Leader Nancy Pelosi (CA-12) on December 20, 2017 stating their strong opposition to these cuts, and urging House leaders halt these cuts until Congress has an opportunity to make improvements that will lead to the program’s long-term sustainability. The controversial organization called the AIDS Healthcare Foundation, that began running the misleading ads against Peters earlier this month, was the subject of a New York Times Magazine investigative piece last year.
01.22.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted against another short-term Continuing Resolution that would do nothing more than extend government funding for three weeks while failing to provide our military, research institutions and employers the certainty they need to protect our national defense, public health and grow our economy. The resolution also fails to include a legislative solution to protect our country’s Dreamers, and other key priorities that demand Congress’ attention. This is the fifth short-term Continuing Resolution Republicans have brought forward in this fiscal year. Earlier today, Peters released a VIDEO in which he states his case against these short-sighted and imprudent temporary spending plans. San Diego is home to the nation’s largest concentration of military personnel with roughly 100,000 active duty service members. It is home to 60% of the ships in the fleet of the U.S. Navy, and one-third of the active duty force of the U.S. Marine Corps. The 52nd Congressional District also has the largest concentration of defense installations of any congressional district in the country, according to the San Diego Military Advisory Council. “As a former member of the House Armed Services Committee, I have spent a lot of time talking with our military leaders about the challenges they face and how Congress can best provide for the national defense,” said Rep. Peters. “The one thing I heard, again and again, is that funding the government through continuing resolutions cripples our readiness. After voting to provide the President and House Republicans with two extensions to come up with a long-term spending bill, enough is enough.” “Congress has a responsibility to our military, and to the rest of the country to negotiate and enact legislation that provides certainty for our military, our scientific research institutions, our community health centers, and the many other critical programs Americans rely on,” Peters continued. “While Senator McConnell provided verbal assurance that the next three weeks will be spent working on long-term solutions to these outstanding issues, I have heard no such guarantee from the President, nor from Speaker Ryan. They have demonstrated over the past four months that they are content to fund the government one month at a time, and that is a dangerous new status quo that must be rejected.” Congressman Peters also called upon the President and Congressional Republicans to take action to provide certainty to Dreamers in San Diego and throughout the country. “The President, Speaker Ryan, and Republican leaders from around the country have said for months that they wanted to find a path forward for Dreamers. However, there are multiple bipartisan bills in both the House and the Senate that have received zero legislative action,” Peters said. “I know that President Trump is not predictable, but Speaker Ryan and Leader McConnell were chosen by their peers to lead. The solutions are out there and Congress deserves an opportunity to vote on them.” Last week, Peters and his Congressional colleagues introduced the bipartisan Uniting and Securing America (USA) Act, which calls for a permanent legislative solution for the immigrants brought to the United States as children and would help secure the southern border. San Diego County has the seventh largest population of DACA-eligible residents of any county in America, with roughly 38,000 San Diegans who are currently eligible or could be in the future.
01.19.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) cancelled his plans to return home tonight and pledged to stay in Washington D.C. as long as it takes to fight for a long-term government spending plan that adequately funds our national defense, and one that reflects American values, including protections for Dreamers, young immigrants brought to the country as children, who the Trump Administration tried to kick out by ending the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program earlier this year. He also renewed his call for the No Budget, No Pay Act and pledged to refuse to keep any congressional pay that would be earned during the days the government is shutdown – should it shut down -- as he has in the past. During the 2013 government shutdown, Peters donated his pay to Serving Seniors in San Diego, a program that feeds San Diego seniors in need that was threatened with cuts during that shutdown. “Donald Trump controls every branch of the federal government; should it happen, he will own this shutdown that hurts our national defense, hurts our economy, and hurts working families across America,” said Rep. Peters. “These short-term spending plans are devastating to our military. We need a serious, long-term plan that allows our admirals and generals the certainty they need to protect our country from the very real threats we face. “Trump’s shutdown will also hurt thousands of San Diegans who work for federally funded research institutions and defense contractors. Right now, many of them are wondering if they are supposed to show up at work on Monday and whether they are going to get a paycheck at the end of the month. This is no way to run the greatest country on earth. And this could all be resolved if Republican leadership would allow a vote on either one of the two bipartisan compromises to find a fix for Dreamers. Let us vote and this crisis brought on by Donald Trump himself can be put to rest and we can get on with the business of running the country.” Peters also renewed his call for the No Budget, No Pay Act. “If Congress can’t do its job and pass a budget, they shouldn’t get paid,” said Peters who refused to keep his pay during the last shutdown, and vows to refuse it again should the Republicans shutdown the government tonight. A version of No Budget, No Pay passed in 2013 and applied to that shutdown. Peters is pushing a new, even stricter version that would prohibit members from receiving their pay retroactively. Should the government shutdown tonight, it would mark the first time in modern history where the government has fully shutdown when a single party has been in control of the House, Senate, and White House.
01.19.2018	Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted against the short-term Continuing Resolution (CR) that will hurt the economy, our national defense, and lead to the delay of thousands of projects and programs nationwide. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “I was willing to vote for the first two stop-gap budgets, but I could not support a third and, yesterday, a fourth extension, for one month, three months after the fiscal year has already started,” said Rep. Peters. “It is past time for Congress to stop funding our government by crisis. Year after year, when Congress fails to pass a budget, we rely on continuing resolutions, instead of providing certainty to our agencies, national security programs, employers, and research institutions. The American people are tired of short-term extensions and are tired of Congress not coming together to fix our nation’s problems.” The bill also fails to include a solution for Dreamers. San Diego County has the seventh largest population of DACA-eligible residents in America, with roughly 38,000 San Diegans who are currently eligible or could be in the future. Peters is an original cosponsor of the Uniting and Securing America (USA) Act, which offers a permanent solution for the young immigrants who were brought to the United States as children and would help secure the southern border. The USA Act would allow individuals to qualify for permanent status if they were 18 or younger before December 31, 2013, are able to pass a background check, and have been employed, are in school, or served in the military. The bill would also enhance border security by investing in new technology and authorizing a study to allow Border Patrol to determine mile-by-mile needs along the border. Rep. Peters continued, “Enough is enough. Republicans, Democrats, and the President himself have said they support providing Dreamers with a solution, and yet, despite a menu of solutions available to them, Speaker Ryan refuses to put even one on the floor for a vote. For too long, the Dreamers of our country have lived in fear and uncertainty. They are our friends, our neighbors, our co-workers, and they are San Diegans working toward the American Dream. America is the only home Dreamers know, and they add to our culture and our economy. Ending DACA without a legislative substitute was an unbelievably cruel and thoughtless act. Time is up – leaving behind our Dreamers is unacceptable, irresponsible, and un-American. Congress must finally take action, work together, and do its job.”
01.11.2018	This week, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted for a series of bills that would establish new grant programs to protect vulnerable targets within our country, increase coordination between local, state, and federal government, implement new technologies to identify and prevent terrorist threats, and allow testing of new screening technologies at airports. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “Our number one priority in Congress is to protect the American people from all threats, domestic and foreign,” said Rep. Peters. “While President Trump wants to recklessly spend $18 billion on a 700-mile expansion of the existing border wall that won’t help protect our country or keep San Diegans safe, the action taken this week by the House of Representatives puts forward real, efficient solutions toward strengthening our national security. San Diegan officials know that the most effective ways to increase our national and border security are through new technology, increased communication between all levels of government, and using state-of-the-art screening tactics in our airports and ports of entry.” Below are the most significant national security bills passed by the House this week: The Securing American Non-Profit Organizations Against Terrorism Act of 2017 creates a new grant program, which would be intended to protect faith-based communities from threats. In San Diego for example, the Congregation Beth Israel installed car proof batteries around their main entrance last year during the High Holy Days to protect against car ramming. The Jewish Community Center (JCC) received three bomb threats in 2017, two resulting in evacuations. These grants would provide much-needed funds to help protect their campus from future threats. If passed into law, the congregation and the JCC could seek partial reimbursement for the cost of these upgrades. The Counter Terrorist Network Act permanently establishes the National Targeting Center (NTC), which uses new technology to neutralize terrorist threats by sharing that information with other law enforcement agencies. The bill would also authorize the NTC to work international agencies and state, local, and tribal governments toward providing secure borders. San Diego has the busiest border in the world and coordination between all government entities is essential to strengthening our border. Peters responded to the Trump’s administration request for $18 billion in funding for a new border wall with a release mapping out his own plan to enhance border security. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Overseas Personnel Enhancement Act of 2017 directs the DHS to brief Congress regarding the airport passenger screening methods currently used by the department outside of the United States. After the briefing takes place, the DHS will have 90 days to submit a plan on how to enhance those operations abroad. This helps ensure proper screening of individuals before they land in the United States. The SAFE TECH Act requires the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to create a process that can be utilized by third-party vendors to test new screening technologies at airports. TSA would include a set of testing parameters and share appropriate information with other global government entities, including the European Civil Aviation Conference. The Global Aviation System Security Reform Act of 2017 directs the TSA to conduct a global study of best practices for screening passengers and employees at airports and then report its findings to Congress. It must also identify when foreign airports are using improper security protocols and investigate the risks of cyber-attacks on screening equipment. The Counterterrorism Information Sharing Improvement Act of 2017 directs the President to coordinate biometric data sharing among relevant federal agencies to ensure DHS has access to credible threat information obtained by other departments.
01.10.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after Congressman Darrell Issa announced he will retire at the end of his term: “Congratulations to Darrell Issa on his retirement from the United States House of Representatives. Darrell and I did not know each other before I came to Congress, but he was among the first to welcome me, and we pledged to work together when we agreed on something that was right for the country or our region. "While Darrell and I disagree on many fundamental issues, we have in fact worked together on moving nuclear waste away from the coast, fixing immigration rules for skilled workers, and reducing pollution and boosting trade at the Mexican border. Darrell played a pivotal role in our delegation’s work together to secure $500 million to modernize the San Ysidro Border Crossing, a priority and commitment I made before I was first elected in 2012. "I wish him, Kathy, and the Issa family all the best upon his retirement later this year."
01.08.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced recent staff hires, promotions, and changes to his congressional staffs in San Diego and Washington, D.C. Rep. Peters released the following statement on the changes to his staff: “Our staff is full of bright, passionate, caring, and dedicated public servants,” said Rep. Peters. “I’m very proud of all my staff has accomplished and look forward to seeing them emerge as leaders for San Diego and our country. We’re ready to get to work for San Diego in 2018.” Below is a full list of his staff for 2018: In the San Diego Office are: MaryAnne Pintar, Chief of Staff MaryAnne Pintar will continue to run San Diego operations and outreach, as well as press, communications and political strategy. Pintar began working with Peters in 2008, and was his last Chief of Staff when he was San Diego City Council President. She was Communications Director for his 2012 congressional campaign, and managed his 2014 and 2016 re-elects. She previously was Communications Director and Chief of Staff to Mayor Susan Golding and had her own consulting business. Pintar has a Bachelor of Arts in Journalism, and a Master of Science in Mass Communications with emphases in political science and advertising from San Diego State University. Anthony Nguyen, District Director Anthony Nguyen, who began in Peters’ office when he took office in 2013, recently was promoted to District Director. Nguyen has served as Director of Constituent Services since 2016 and previously as a Legislative Assistant in the Washington, D.C. office. Nguyen covers health care, human trafficking, Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) affairs, and senior/aging policy. Nguyen has a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science from San Diego University, a Master of Arts in International Relations from the University of San Diego, and a Master of Health Administration from the University of Southern California. Nguyen is fluent in Vietnamese. Kiera Galloway, Director of Constituent Services Kiera Galloway, who has served as Field Representative for the past two years, was promoted to Director of Constituent Services to help oversee all casework operations. Galloway worked on Peters’ 2014 campaign and served as his Staff Assistant in Washington, D.C. in 2015 before returning to San Diego as a Field Representative. Galloway assists with education, women’s, LGBT equality, arts, housing and homelessness and local transportation policy and assists with veteran casework. Galloway has a Bachelor of the Arts in History with a concentration in History and Law from Stanford University. Jason Bercovitch, Field Representative Jason Bercovitch covers immigrant and faith-based community outreach, international trade, Middle East foreign affairs, financial services and gun safety policy areas, as well as all immigration and IRS constituent casework. Bercovitch was an intern in Peters’ District Office in 2013 and previously interned for Congresswoman Susan Davis while working as a financial advisor and loan officer at various local financial institutions. Bercovitch has a Bachelor of the Arts in Business Economics with a minor in Political Science from the University of California- Riverside. Bercovitch lived for much of his childhood in Puerto Rico and is fluent in Spanish. Juan Hernandez, Field Representative Juan Hernandez, a San Diego native, was in the U.S. Air Force and Air National Guard for a total of 12 years. After his service, Hernandez worked for various nonprofits in San Diego helping homeless veterans through casework and housing navigation. Hernandez covers veteran’s issues, including Service Academy Nominations, the Vietnam Veterans’ Commemoration program and veteran casework. Hernandez has a Bachelor of the Arts in Psychology from the University of Phoenix and an Associate in Arts Criminal Justice from the Community College of the Air Force. He is fluent in Spanish. Erin Magee, District Scheduler and Field Representative Erin Magee, a San Diego native, joins the San Diego office as District Scheduler and Field Representative. Magee most recently served as Peters’ Legislative Correspondent in Washington, D.C. Magee was a Field Organizer on Peters’ 2016 campaign and interned in Peters’ District Office in 2015. In addition to managing the San Diego schedule, Magee covers travel/tourism, high tech, biotech, and government reform policy areas, as well as federal grants and State Department and U.S. Postal Service constituent casework. Magee has a Bachelor of the Arts in Political Science from Gonzaga University. Quin La Capra, Digital Media Director Quin La Capra began working for Peters in 2016 as a Press Assistant in his Washington, D.C. office and recently moved to San Diego. As Digital Media Director, La Capra directs all of Peters’ online media presence, handles local press outreach, and recently began covering economic development issues. La Capra graduated from Boston University with a Bachelor of Science in Journalism and a minor in International Relations. Howard Ou, Field Representative Howard Ou, a California native, covers defense, environment, transportation and infrastructure, AAPI, Asia Pacific Foreign affairs and constituent casework. He worked on Peters’ 2014 campaign before being selected as a Field Representative for Peters’ District Office in 2015. He spent 2016 as legislative fellow for Rep. Judy Chu and the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus through the Asian Pacific American Institute for Congressional Studies. Ou has a Bachelor of Science in Professional Psychology from Alliant International University and a Master of Science in Homeland Security from San Diego State University. He is fluent in Mandarin Chinese. In the Washington, D.C. Office are: Daniel Zawitoski, D.C. Chief of Staff Daniel Zawitoski will manage all D.C. operations, legislative affairs and strategy, and Peters’ leadership position in the New Democrat Coalition. He is also the office contact for national advocacy groups. Zawitoski is an original member of Team Peters as the Director of Research for Peters’ first congressional campaign in 2012. Prior to taking over as D.C. Chief of Staff, he served as Peters’ Legislative Correspondent, a Legislative Assistant, and, most recently as Legislative Director. Zawitoski has a Bachelor of the Arts in History from Colby College and a Master of Arts in Political Science from San Diego State University. Sterling McHale, Legislative Director Sterling McHale, a San Diego native, was promoted to Legislative Director. Previously, McHale was a Legislative Assistant, Legislative Aide, Legislative Correspondent and intern in Peters’ Washington, D.C. office. Prior to joining Team Peters, he worked for a statewide government affairs consulting firm in California, the California State Assembly, and the County of San Diego Board of Supervisors. McHale covers defense, energy, transportation and infrastructure, homeland security, trade, telecommunications, small business, tourism, economic development, financial services, and housing issues. McHale has a Bachelor of the Arts in Political Science from Point Loma Nazarene University. Anaïs Borja, Legislative Assistant Anaïs (“ah-ny-EES”) Borja, a California native, started working as a Legislative Assistant for Peters in 2017. Anaïs covers health, environment, seniors/aging, agriculture, natural resources, and space. Previously, Borja worked in New York for several years in marketing and communications. Borja has a Bachelor of the Arts in Comparative Literature from Harvard University and a Master of Public Administration from New York University. She speaks French and Spanish. Baillee Brown, Legislative Assistant Baillee Brown started working for Peters in 2015 as his Scheduler in his Washington, D.C. office. Baillee began to handle policy issues in 2016 and will start 2018 as a Legislative Assistant where she will cover veteran’s issues, education, labor, public safety, immigration, homelessness, government reform, nutrition, and women & LGBTQ issues. Brown has a Bachelor of the Arts in Politics from Occidental College. Colin MacCarthy, Press Secretary Colin MacCarthy, one of Peters’ most recent hires, previously worked on Capitol Hill for now-retired California Senator Barbara Boxer on her Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, where he started as a Press/Staff Assistant and was later promoted to Director of New Media. Colin handles national/D.C. press outreach in the Washington, D.C. office. MacCarthy has a Bachelor of the Arts in Government and Politics from the University of Maryland. Arlene Pun, Staff Assistant and Legislative Aide Arlene Pun, a San Diego native, started as an intern in Peters’ Washington, D.C. office in 2016. Arlene is Peters’ Staff Assistant and recently took on an additional role as a Legislative Aide. Arlene covers Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) affairs, animals, arts, Postal Service issues, and runs the Washington, D.C. internship program. Pun has a Bachelor of the Arts in Political Science from American University. Hannah Stern, Scheduler Hannah Stern, a Coronado native, started working for Peters as his Deputy Finance Director in 2016. Following the election, Hannah worked in the District office as his District Scheduler, while covering the Life Sciences portfolio in San Diego. Hannah will be joining the Washington, D.C. office as his Scheduler. Prior to joining Team Peters, she worked in neuroscience researching, including labs at The Scripps Research Institute in La Jolla and the University of Texas at Austin. Hannah has a Bachelor of Science in Psychology from UC San Diego and a Master of Science in Psychology from Claremont Graduate University. Elise Sugarman, Legislative Correspondent Elise Sugarman, a California native and the most recent hire, previously interned for Congresswoman Cheri Bustos and the House Democratic Caucus. Sugarman has a Bachelor of the Arts in Politics with an Urban and Environmental Policy minor from Occidental College.
01.05.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voiced strong opposition to the Trump Administration’s request for $18 billion over the next decade to expand the United States’ southwest border wall. If granted, the funding would expand the existing border barrier by more than 700 miles. “In a selfish political appeal to his base, and on the heels of tax cuts that will cost the country $150 trillion, Donald Trump wants to waste another $18 billion of taxpayer money on a wall that most Americans oppose and that won’t secure the border as well as other more innovative, less expensive technology,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “I visited San Diego’s existing border fence with local Border Patrol recently, and they said what we need most is technology to detect underground tunnels used to smuggle drugs and people,” Peters said. “Let’s focus on the real problems without wasting billions on an edifice this President swore the U.S. wouldn’t pay for,” he added. San Diego is the busiest border crossing in the world. Peters, along with most San Diegans, views the border as an opportunity, not a threat, since the southern border is an economic engine for San Diego and our country. “When it comes to border security, we need to prioritize halting drug and human trafficking and national security threats with new and up-to-date tactics,” Peters said, adding money would be better spent modernizing new threat detection technology, additional surveillance towers, camera systems, grounds sensors, helicopters, planes, and ships. Peters also supports better technology and an increased number of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) personnel to more quickly and thoroughly clear legal cargo through customs while better detecting contraband. Recently, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill, with Peters’ support, that would authorize funding for technology to help CBP catch people attempting to smuggle illegal drugs, particularly fentanyl, which is the most recent opioid to strike the San Diego community. Further funding is needed for ports of entry near San Diego. For example, Calexico West is still in need of $248 million.
12.20.2017	Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted against the VA Care in the Community Act that passed the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs on a party-line vote. The bill includes reforms to the Veterans Choice Program and a renewed focus on care in the community for veterans. Rep. Peters has supported the Choice program, which allows qualifying veterans to see providers outside the VA healthcare system to ensure high-quality, timely health care, since first being elected to Congress; however, the Choice Program cannot be a permanent solution for fixing the problems at the VA and reforms need to be made to guarantee that. The Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs passed their version of the VA Care in the Community Act on a 14-1 vote count. Their version takes a broader approach at reforming the VA and the Choice Program by including $4 billion for new care in the community program efforts, $1 billion to other operations needed in the VA, and expands the valuable family caregiver program to qualifying veterans. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “Veterans have earned the best healthcare our nation can offer, yet the bill passed today falls short of this criteria,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “I strongly prefer the bipartisan effort the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee passed, which includes an increased amount of funding and an expansion of numerous VA programs essential to providing quality healthcare for our veterans. When the Senate and House come together to reconcile their differences for final passage of this bill, I urge my House colleagues to adopt the stronger measures put in place by the Senate.” The House and Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committees have both passed versions of VA Care in the Community Act and will likely conference in the next year to resolve the differences in each bill.
12.19.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted against the Republican tax bill that was pushed through the U.S. House of Representatives on a party-line vote. The bill raises taxes dramatically for Californians, increases the deficit by $1.5 trillion through unpaid tax cuts that will shrink the economy and lead to fewer good jobs for America’s working families. According to the nonpartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget (CRFB), no estimate that accounts for the economic impression of higher debt has found the bill would not grow the economy by more than a quarter of the Republicans’ declared 0.4-point growth target. Republican economist Greg Mankiw has stated that tax cuts only pay for 15% to 32% of their cost. These findings will lead to a staggering increase to our national debt that already equals 77% of our gross domestic product and the CRFB estimates the cost of this bill will likely exceed the size of our economy by 2028. The bill caps the state and local tax (SALT) deduction at $10,000. Californians will be severely hurt from this cap and are among the biggest beneficiaries of this deduction, claiming 17% of all SALT deductions in the country. In 2015, more than 6 million California households claimed an average SALT deduction and had an average deduction of $18,400. That means each Californian claiming this tax deduction will lose thousands of dollars; in San Diego, roughly a third of all households will be affected by this. The proposal also limits the tax benefits of homeownership by reducing the size of loans that qualify for deductions of mortgage interest to $750,000. In 2017, 8.2% of new mortgage loans in San Diego were more than the proposed cap. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “I understand that the American people absolutely need real tax reform,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “That does not mean we should balloon the debt by passing an overwhelming antigrowth tax bill through a rushed and partisan legislative process. The long-term consequences to our economy include decreased budget flexibility, less private investment, higher interest rates, and slower wage growth. For San Diegans, that means less opportunity for business and families to create jobs or build better lives—all while leaving future generations with crippling debt.” Rep. Peters laid out his proposed reforms in a statement and speech on the House floor that can be viewed HERE. Peters added that when constructing long-lasting tax reform, there must be a full, transparent, and bipartisan legislative process. The GOP tax overhaul underwent zero formal hearings other than the House Ways and Means Committee markup and no amendments were accepted when on the House floor. In comparison, the Affordable Care Act underwent 100 hours in hearings, a total of 121 amendments were accepted, and there were 30 days of review of the original House bill before the first markup. Rep. Peters continued, “Congress must restart the legislative process, and work together to achieve a bipartisan plan that actually provides American families with tax relief. I wholeheartedly call on my Republican friends in the Senate to vote this bill down and urge my Republican colleagues in the House to work with me to form real, fiscally responsible tax reform that actually spurs growth.”
12.13.2017	Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass two resolutions to reaffirm the United States House of Representatives’ strong commitment to the United States-Mexico and United States-Canada partnerships. These two strategic partnerships are essential to the United States to advance economic opportunities, strengthen border security, combat terrorism, and encourage bilateral cooperation when addressing environmental concerns, human trafficking, and smuggling of narcotics. All but ten states in the United States rely on Mexico or Canada as their largest export markets. In San Diego, they are the two top customers, with $5.5 billion in annual exports to Mexico alone. According to the World Trade Center San Diego report, roughly 120,000 San Diegans have jobs that depend on trade. “The United States House of Representatives formally recommitted the United States to maintaining strong relationships with our neighbors, Canada and Mexico,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “Strong relationships with our border allies expand the ability of the United States to pursue economic opportunities that would not be available without cooperation from our friends to the north and south. Reinforcing these strategic partnerships increases the good faith needed to develop strong mutually beneficial trade agreements.” Peters added that any renegotiation of NAFTA must include strengthening of environmental standards, something that is of particular importance to San Diego, which shares a border with Mexico. In February 2017, more than 140 gallons of raw sewage spilled into the Tijuana River in Mexico, eventually reaching San Diego and the Pacific Ocean. Rep. Peters continued, “It is through trade agreements that we are able to lift up environmental standards in other countries which affect us here at home since air and water pollution know no international boundaries. The United States must be able to stand up for its own communities through meaningful dispute resolution. Border patrol agents and many San Diegans risk being exposed to toxic chemicals, polluted soil, and other pollutants from raw sewage spilled into the Tijuana River in Mexico. “I strongly believe that NAFTA benefits both sides of the border, but improvements need to be made. There is no doubt that any form of withdrawal or weakening of these agreements with Canada and Mexico would be detrimental to our nation.”
12.12.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to support the Promoting Closed-Loop Pumped Storage Hydropower Act. If signed into law, the bill would give closed-loop hydropower projects an expedited process for approval from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Closed-loop pumped storage hydropower projects generate power from reservoirs using elevation change as opposed to open-loop, which exist in free-flowing rivers. Peters led the effort to craft the final language of the bill which helped it earn the bipartisan support it needed to pass. “More electricity from hydropower is key to meeting our clean energy goals, and reducing harmful emissions that pollute our air and water and contribute to climate change,” Rep. Scott Peters said. Peters continued, “It will consider interagency input through a new task force and provide appropriate protection for wildlife and endangered species, while helping us grow emissions free energy. “In San Diego, where large rivers and typical hydropower generation are less common, closed-loop hydropower offers an innovative solution and can have other benefits to the region’s energy and reservoir systems. “We must continue to have productive, bipartisan conversations like these that produce the ultimate goal of streamlining the regulatory process so that hydropower projects can be approved more quickly while still meeting high environmental standards.” Click HERE or above to watch Rep. Peters speak about utilizing hydropower.
12.07.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) spoke in favor of the current EPA methane rule during a hearing with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt. Rep. Peters defended the methane rule — which applies to all new oil and gas operations — that the Scott Pruitt-led EPA attempted to block. The agency recently proposed a two-year delay to implementation of the rule, but that was overturned by federal courts. “I support the rule because it will boost energy supplies, reduce air pollution including smog, air toxics, greenhouse gases and the estimated benefit of capturing methane emissions from the oil and gas industry is $2 billion dollars annually,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “Substantively, do you think what’s in the methane rule is the right kind of approach to deal with that?” asked Rep. Peters Pruitt refused to commit to whether or not the agency would be making any substantive changes to the methane rule or to whether they would start the rulemaking process over again. Click HERE to watch Rep. Peters question US EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt. California has adopted the strongest rules aimed at curbing emissions of methane. Methane is estimated to have 72 times more potential impact on climate change than carbon dioxide over a 20-year time frame. San Diego Gas & Electric (SDG&E) has a long-standing commitment to reducing methane emissions. As a result, SDG&E’s natural gas system has one of the lowest methane emission rates in the country.
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted against the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act that passed through the U.S. House of Representatives. This bill would force all states to recognize concealed carry permits from every other state, even those that have weaker or no standards. Residents of states that do not require any permit would be able to carry a concealed weapon anywhere in the country, including places where they are currently not allowed like California. If signed into law, states with the weakest gun safety requirements will set the national standard, therefore, overriding local efforts to protect public safety. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “I believe we can and should respect cultural differences around firearms,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “I’m not asking to export California’s gun laws to the rest of the country, but I also don’t want to undermine states like California that choose to have strong gun safety laws to protect their communities. The concealed carry standard passed today will dramatically weaken states’ ability to protect their communities from gun violence, will nullify the current laws that prohibit the concealed carry of loaded firearms in school zones, and will pose a threat to law enforcement officers whenever they attempt to enforce gun laws. This extraordinary encroachment on states’ rights is unacceptable and I urge the Senate to stop this dangerous piece of legislation.” California has some of the strongest gun laws in the country, but these laws would be undermined by the federally mandated concealed carry bill passed today. Also, California is in close proximity to states that have some of the weakest gun laws in the country, which means Californians would be exposed to laws not tailored to or agreed upon by their state. According to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, criminals in California used about 6,000 guns from other states, mainly from those with few gun-buying restrictions like Arizona and Nevada. Today’s action to weaken concealed carry laws was combined with a bill that would have strengthened the nation’s background checks. The Fix NICS Act addresses the need to strengthen our National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS), which is designed to ensure that only low-risk individuals are able to purchase firearms. Currently, there are major reporting gaps in the program, which have resulted in allowing criminals and domestic abusers to obtain firearms. Rep. Peters strongly supports fixing NICS but could not support a bill that weakens California gun safety laws. The Major Cities Chiefs Association, which includes the Chiefs of Police and Sheriffs of the 69 largest law enforcement agencies in the country, opposed combining concealed carry reciprocity with the Fix NICS Act. San Diego Police Chief Shelley Zimmerman urged Rep. Peters to oppose today’s action. Rep. Peters continued, “The decision to combine concealed carry reciprocity to the Fix NICS Act is the equivalent to taking one step forward and then seven steps back. We must be able to vote on these two issues separately. Law enforcement leaders from around the country strongly support strengthening background checks, but strongly condemn concealed carry reciprocity. America is suffering from a gun violence epidemic and I’m tired of Congress refusing to stand up to the gun lobby to protect the American people from senseless gun violence.”
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to deliver a strong rebuke of the GOP Tax Plan that will balloon the national deficit by $1.5 trillion, fails to give real tax relief to American families who need it most, and will not boost economic growth for our nation. In his speech, he urged real, bipartisan work toward real tax reform and pledged to work with his Republican colleagues if they are willing to put country before party. “I understand that real tax reform is absolutely necessary. “But we should not -- and we don’t need to -- balloon the federal debt to achieve these goals, and that’s exactly why Republican proposals in the House and the Senate are so harmful for our country. “We can point fingers at each other about how we got here. But if we are trying to get out of a hole, first we need to stop digging. “Thirty seven of 38 economists agreed that the GOP tax bills in Congress would cause U.S. debt to increase ‘substantially’ faster than the economy. “What in the world has happened to the Grand Old Party and fiscal responsibility? “This is not what you or your constituents really want. They don’t want their tax breaks to expire while corporate breaks don’t. They don’t want students to suffer from even more debt. “We can do a real tax reform without jeopardizing our children’s future. “If my Republican colleagues will commit to doing that, I will commit to working with you, and I will honestly and publicly thank you for putting country before politics.” Video of Rep. Peters Delivers Harsh Rebuke of GOP Tax Scam on House Floor Click HERE or above to watch Rep. Peters speak about the need for real tax reform. Click HERE for the full transcript of the speech.
11.29.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass a resolution that will require all members of the House of Representatives, staff, and interns to undergo anti-harassment and anti-discrimination training. Ever since being elected to office, Rep. Peters and everyone on his staff has been required to complete this training. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “This mandated training is long overdue and today’s action sends a clear message that any form of harassment will not be tolerated in Congress,” said Rep. Peters. “Even before it was required, my office has mandated this training simply because it’s the right thing to do and now it will be required for all offices. Next, we must change the ridiculous law that allows members to use taxpayer money to pay for settlements in sexual harassment cases. Congress must set the example with a respectful work environment and zero tolerance policy toward all forms of harassment, discrimination, and abuse.”
11.21.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued the following statement in response to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai’s proposal to fully repeal net neutrality rules. The proposed plan from the FCC would eliminate the agency’s core net neutrality rules, which prohibit internet service providers from blocking certain websites, slowing web traffic, or negotiating paid prioritization with websites for fast lanes to consumers. The final FCC vote will come this December. “Strong net neutrality protections must be in place to maintain a truly open and free internet,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “The changes announced by Chairman Pai would undermine protections that level the playing field for consumers and small businesses. First, the current administration allowed Internet Service Providers to sell Americans’ personal information and private browsing history -- now they are moving to remove any assurances to protect the dynamic freedom and openness of the internet. We need a legislative solution to protect net neutrality and I will urge my colleagues to take action to preserve the internet as free, fair, and open. These protections should not be subject to the whims of one administration to the next. Congress must act to make these protections reliable and permanent.”
11.16.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) strongly opposed the tax reform bill passed on a party-line vote on the House floor today. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) calls for unpaid tax cuts that will increase our national debt by at least $1.5 trillion, shrink the economy, and eliminate American jobs. This plan will raise taxes for Californians dramatically. The bill eliminates the state and local tax (SALT) deduction, which allows people to deduct state and local property taxes up to $10,000, but not income or sales tax. Californians are among the biggest beneficiaries of this deduction, claiming 17% of all SALT deductions in the country. The bill also would reduce the tax benefits of homeownership by lowering the size of loans that qualify for deductions of mortgage interest to $500,000. In San Diego, 37% of new mortgage loans were more than the proposed cap. The proposal limits the amount of property taxes that households can deduct to $10,000 annually. Additionally, California’s affordable housing sector would take a huge hit, as the bill eliminates a federal tax program that funds a large part of San Diego’s subsidized affordable housing. The California Housing Partnership said this could cost California roughly $2.2 billion in federal investment annually and 20,000 affordable housing units a year. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “The American people need real, fiscally responsible tax reform that actually spurs growth,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “This week, the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget (CRFB) showed that the House tax bill passed today will actually shrink, not grow the economy because of the drag from long-term debt and current economic conditions. Even in circumstances where tax cuts would generate some growth, tax cuts alone do not pay for themselves. According to Republican economist Greg Mankiw, tax cuts only pay for 15% to 32% of their cost. This tax plan is irresponsible, counterproductive, unsustainable, and anti-growth because increasing the national debt hurts the economy. Today, our national debt equals 77% of our gross domestic product and the CRFB estimates the cost of this bill will likely exceed the size of our economy by 2028. The long-term economic consequences of high debt levels include a dip in private investment, a rise in interest rates, and slow wage growth. American families need tax relief, but this approach will not provide it, and it shifts a huge unpaid burden of debt to our children. There is no case for unpaid tax cuts that would balloon the debt, cripple future generations, and put a drag on the American economy.” Rep. Peters continued, “As a former tax attorney, I understand our tax code is outdated and slows economic growth with rates that are too high and loopholes that are too numerous. Our international tax system is noncompetitive, traps profits overseas, and doesn’t create U.S. tax revenues, investments, or jobs. We should work together to address these issues in a way that will help our economy and our businesses without hammering the middle class and exploding the national debt. History has shown that the only path to successful tax reform is a strong commitment to bipartisanship. Congress must come together to modernize our tax code and make taxes fairer for businesses and American families.”
11.15.2017	Today, the House Judiciary Committee passed the Project and Grow American Jobs Act. U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) introduced the bill with Rep. Darrell Issa to reform the H-1B visa system to help prevent outsourcing of American jobs. The H-1B program is an important program, created to help grow the economy by granting temporary visas to highly-skilled professionals. In recent years, some companies have begun to abuse loopholes in the system that allow them to offshore jobs, hurting American workers in the process. This bill closes these loopholes by raising eligibility requirements to ensure H-1B-dependent employers only hire the best and the brightest and to help curb abuse so these innovators can maintain a competitive workforce. Currently, H-1B-dependent employers can avoid attesting that they attempted to fill job vacancies with American workers as long as they pay H-1B recipients at least $60,000. The Protect and Grow American Jobs Act increases that threshold significantly to the lesser of $135,000 or the average salary for that job in a given geographical area, with a floor of $90,000. “Innovators across San Diego rely on high-skilled visas to maintain a talented workforce,” said Rep. Peters. “To ensure these visas are available for those who need them, we need strong systems in place to prevent abuse and protect jobs for American workers. This commonsense fix updates our high-skilled visas to reduce abuse of the system and ensure a level playing field for American workers. I will continue to push for a bipartisan fix to our broken immigration system so we can create economic opportunity and enhance our security.” The Protect and Grow American Jobs Act eliminates any exceptions that allowed H-1B-dependent employers to replace American workers with H-1B employees. The bill also strengthens the Department of Labor’s ability to ensure that H-1B-dependent employers abide by the new provisions.
11.14.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass the Conference Report for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2017, which is the final version of the Senate-House negotiated bill that lays out defense spending and policy for the next fiscal year. The conference report includes a provision that recognizes climate change as a national security threat and directs the Department of Defense (DOD) to study what steps are needed to mitigate effects on military operations. Rep. Peters, who was a featured speaker at the recent Pontifical Academy of Sciences’ workshop on climate actions, has consistently fought for Congress to act to address climate change and recently led a letter to the Conference Committee members urging that this climate action provision be included. The DOD will also receive new resources to innovate their energy security, which includes supporting renewable energy sources. This year’s bill also includes a 2.4% pay raise for service members, the largest in 8 years; a 50% increase in funding for Navy shipbuilding that will continue construction of new aircraft carriers, provide the Navy with new Littoral Combat Ships and new destroyers; and $8 billion in funding will be dedicated to cyber operations and weapons. The bill authorizes $258 million in military construction projects for Naval Special Warfare on Coronado, and $87 million for MCAS Miramar to build a flight simulator facility and an aircraft maintenance hangar. Rep. Peters released the following statement after voting in favor of the Conference Report for the National Defense Authorization Act of 2017, which passed on a bipartisan 356-70 vote: “The most important job we have in Congress is to give our service members the tools to properly defend the United States of America,” said Rep. Peters. “This bill will help close the readiness gaps which are hamstringing our military operations and putting the lives of service members in danger. Through this bill, service members will receive their largest pay raise in eight years, new planes and ships will be provided for the Navy and Marine Corps, and our defense against cyberattacks will be strengthened.” “It also authorized funding for military construction in San Diego County that will continue the modernization of the Navy SEAL facilities on Coronado, hangar upgrades at MCAS Miramar, and improve facilities at Camp Pendleton. Not only does this better equip San Diego service members, but it also expands the military’s investment in San Diego, which supports job growth,” he said, adding that military related spending drives one-fifth of our region’s economy. “Finally, it also gives the DOD the autonomy to pursue its energy security goals and prepare for the threat of climate change. We can’t let partisan politics get in the way of allowing the military to invest in energy innovation, and to address the fact that a changing climate is a threat to national security.”
11.09.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted in support of the Hydropower Policy Modernization Act to expedite the licensing process for non-federal hydropower plants. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “As we continue the push toward a clean energy future, we need to be supportive of energy sources that cut down on our reliance on fossil fuels. Hydropower is a cost-effective, renewable source of energy and can play an important role in helping us battle climate change,” Rep. Scott Peters said. “There is nothing simple about licensing large scale hydropower projects. I believe that we can come together in a bipartisan manner to achieve both high environmental standards and establish a process that allows for more efficiency and certainty in licensing.” Streamlining licensing for hydropower facilities will increase the opportunity to utilize new hydropower plants, and will help develop cheap, renewable, and clean power. According to the Department of Energy, increasing the hydropower generation by only 49 gigawatts between 2015 and 2050 would accrue more than $200 billion in savings by reducing greenhouse gas emissions while at the same time being capable of providing power to more than 35 million homes.
11.01.2017	U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) will be a featured speaker at a conference of world climate experts in Vatican City titled Health of People, Health of Planet and our Responsibility: Climate Change, Air Pollution and Health. The workshop will be held Nov. 2-4 and will feature scientists, policy makers, philosophers, theologians, and world leaders. A full list of attendees and the workshop agenda can be found here. Discussion will revolve around the connection between climate change and public health, the impact climate change has on the world’s most vulnerable populations, and the continuous degradation of our environment. In his remarks, Rep. Peters will describe the critical role the Catholic Church and all faith leaders play in convincing lawmakers who remain skeptical of the urgent need to act on climate. He will urge them to continue to use their powerful influence to change the hearts and minds of those who continue to deny that human activity is the cause of the planet's rising temperature. The event will be livestreamed and can be found on the Pontifical Academy of Sciences’ page. “The Vatican’s leadership is essential in highlighting the moral crossroad we face if we don’t tackle climate change," said Rep. Scott Peters. “Climate denial has become a litmus test for conservative politicians; the Pope and the Vatican can be instrumental to changing their minds and hearts. The notion of addressing climate change used to be bipartisan, but the divisive state of American politics has caught up to the issue. Since it's evident that President Trump is determined to undermine all of the progress on climate achieved by President Obama, now is the time for local governments and leaders around the world to act on the existential threat of climate change.” Rep Scott Peters continued, “It is an absolute honor and privilege to be included in such an historic event. The moral clarity and commitment Pope Francis and the Vatican have conveyed towards climate action will be critical if we are going to properly battle climate change.” Congressman Peters is a member of the House Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition (SEEC), where he serves as Chair of the Climate Task Force. He is also an active member on the House Safe Climate Caucus.
10.26.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) followed through on his promise to hold the Iranian regime accountable for its destabilizing activities in the Middle East, and pursuit of ballistic missiles by voting to support the Iran Ballistic Missiles and International Sanctions Enforcement Act. Congressman Peters strongly supports condemning and curbing Iran’s conventional weapons program and sponsorship of terror through strict sanctions. The Iran Ballistic Missile and International Sanctions Enforcement Act directly targets those activities by giving the President the authority he needs to stop the supply, manufacture, and financing of such harmful weapons. In addition, it does not undermine the internationally negotiated Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), passed by the United States along with Russia, China, our European Allies, and Iran, which significantly restricted the path to a nuclear-armed Iran. Today’s action goes after Iran for its ballistic missile development. “The Iranian regime continues to foment instability across much of the Middle East,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “From the beginning, I have maintained that while the Iran Deal is the best way to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon for many years, the United States and our allies must continue to hold their feet to the fire for their ongoing human rights abuses, support of terror activities, and ballistic missile program. The recent test of ballistic missiles designed to deliver nuclear weapons goes directly against the calls of the United Nations Security Council presented under UN Security Council Resolution 2231 and passage of enhanced sanctions for this activity is an important step toward holding the regime accountable.” Rep. Peters continued, “These sanctions are part of a smart, tough strategy determined to stop Iran from maintaining its current path. This proposal not only cracks down on the development of dangerous weapons, but also targets those individuals at the heart of the foreign and domestic supply chains. This bipartisan approach is exactly the type of action we need to counter threats around the world and keep Americans safe.”
10.24.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted in favor of two bills that would take measures to better target border security. The first bill, The INTERDICT Act, authorizes funding to be spent on new technology that would further enable U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers to catch people attempting to smuggle in illegal drugs, particularly fentanyl, a synthetic opioid. Recently, an even deadlier form of fentanyl has emerged in San Diego County. Carfentanil is one-hundred times stronger than fentanyl and is roughly one-third of the production cost of heroin. “We must equip our Customs and Border Protection officers with the most up-to-date technology to catch people trying to bring illegal drugs into our country, said Rep. Scott Peters. “Fentanyl is the most recent form of opioids to strike the San Diego community. The bill I supported today authorizes funding towards screening devices specifically directed towards detecting fentanyl. This is an epidemic we must get in front of to protect the people of San Diego County.” The second bill, the Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) Reauthorization Act, would reauthorize a “flagship” global supply chain security program. The program creates an agreement between the U.S. CBP and companies who work outside the United States and rely on a global supply chain that will increase security of that supply chain and identify lapses in security. The bill would also create three tiers of involvement that is based on participation and benefits. Rep. Peters continued, “When it comes to border security, we must place a priority on advanced technology and programs that counter global terrorism, such as investing in biometrics, enhanced surveillance, and other state-of-the-art technology, that for example, help our border patrol find illegal tunnels used for smuggling. That’s a far better use of federal resources than a wall that is more about politics than keeping us safe.”
10.19.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) strongly condemned the harsh and cruel decision by Immigration and Customs Enforcement to deport a local woman who has two U.S. citizen children, including one small child who has special needs. This is the second time in less than a month a U.S. citizen child with developmental disabilities has lost the care of a hardworking, caring parent as a result of a recent Executive Order by the Trump Administration. In late September, Gaston Cazares, a 30-year resident of San Diego who was caring for his 15 year old autistic son, was deported. Today, federal authorities made the decision to deport Silvia Ocampo Ortiz, who for years, has worked as a housekeeper to provide for her children. “These parents have worked hard so they can provide their children with a better future, something that we all want,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “Targeting families with disabled children is heartless and cruel and does not represent the values of our great nation,” he said. “In addition to the inhumanity of ripping loving, caring parents away from their children, it’s also fiscally stupid. Now these children, as U.S. citizens, will end up in our foster care system, which is already severely overburdened. It makes no sense and I urge everyone to call the Trump Administration out on this nonsense decision.”
10.12.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) advocated for energy innovation and resiliency programs during a hearing with Energy Secretary, Rick Perry on Management and Mission Priorities in the Department of Energy (DOE). Rep. Peters defended the DOE’s Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E), which develops and deploys energy technologies to reduce our dependence on foreign energy sources, cut greenhouse gas emissions, and maintain U.S. leadership in the global energy sector. “You indicated up front that innovation in energy was one of your goals. Why on earth would you zero out this budget?” asked Rep. Peters. Rep. Peters continued, “When the utilities came in [to testify] and I asked them specifically ‘What’s the federal role in energy security in terms of grid efficiency and reliability?’ They said research.” ARPA-E provided $1.5 billion to over 580 projects since it was created in 2009, but the budget blueprint released by the Trump Administration in May eliminated the program. In July, Rep. Peters opposed cuts to ARPA-E in the Republican spending bill that passed the House. UC San Diego received $15 million in ARPA-E grants over the last five years including funding for projects to increase grid security and efficiency. Last year, Achates Power in Sorrento Valley received the largest ARPA-E grant ever awarded: $9 million to develop more efficient combustion engines. Click here or the image above to watch Rep. Peters question Secretary Perry.
10.11.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted to support the ‘NIST Small Business Cybersecurity Act of 2017’ (H.R. 2105) and the ‘Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Improvement Act’ (H.R. 2763). The NIST Small Business Cybersecurity Act of 2017 directs the National Institute of Standard and Technology to publish standards, guidelines, and tools that small businesses can use to enhance their cybersecurity and protect private client data. The SBIR and STTR Improvement Act expands programs where government agencies and companies work together for early stages of innovation, and provides opportunities for products and companies to grow out of these important investments. Since San Diego County is the recipient of more Department of Defense spending than almost any other county in the United States, the region is likely to see a significant economic boost from this legislation. In fact, according to a report by San Diego Military Advisory Council (SDMAC), $8.6 billion in procurement contracts were projected to flow into San Diego in fiscal year 2016. “For our economy to grow and expand, we must provide small businesses all of the resources we can to thrive and succeed, said Rep. Scott Peters. “Small businesses account for over half of the U.S. jobs in America, but struggle with investing and hiring proper personnel to protect themselves from cyberattacks. These two pieces of legislation take measures to ensure that our small businesses have the tools to battle cyber threats and compete in today’s economy.”
10.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement on the shooting in Las Vegas, Nevada last night: “Nearly 600 people killed or injured by just one man, in just ten minutes. These numbers are staggering, and they represent children, parents, friends, and neighbors who will never come home. They deserve to be known and mourned, and they and their families need our love and prayers. Thank you to the brave first responders who ran into danger to help save lives—but up against ten or more rifles, including semi-automatic weapons, there was only so much they could do. Congress, however, CAN do something: we can pass commonsense safety measures, like we have in California, to help lessen the chances of this happening again. Speaker Ryan has refused to let us vote yes or no on something as simple as a bipartisan bill to require universal background checks. On the contrary, Republican leadership had planned this week to let Congress consider a bill that would make it easier to purchase gun silencers without a background check. We’ve sent letters, signed discharge petitions, honored gun violence victims on the House floor and met with activists at home, and I broadcast the 2016 sit-in to highlight the gun violence epidemic. We’ve done everything we can. It’s up to my Republican colleagues now to decide if they want to keep putting American lives in danger or if they are now, finally, ready to act. We can’t prevent every random act of violence, but if we could prevent just one, it would be worth it. Mr. Speaker, I implore you, thoughts and prayers mean nothing unless they are followed by action. Let us debate gun safety and let us vote on common sense reform. And, no, it isn’t too soon to talk about this. It’s always too late.”
09.14.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted against a partisan government spending package that, among other drastic measures, completely eliminates the U.S.-Mexico Border Water Infrastructure Grant Program. These grants support a bi-national partnership that has funded and would continue to fund repairs to sewage infrastructure that is at risk of rupturing and causing sewage spills that effect San Diego. The elimination of the Border Water Grant Program is part of a 7% overall cut to the Environmental Protection Agency that would severely limit its resources to protect clean air and water. “Eliminating this program would take away one of our tools to improve sewage infrastructure along the border and prevent these constant spills that threaten public health and damage our quality of life. It also threatens the cross-border cooperation and leadership that is necessary to keep sewage out of American waterways,” said Rep. Scott Peters, who first raised the alarm when President Trump called for eliminating the program in his budget proposal. “This is a priority, and I am going to continue working to restore this program and ensure the federal government plays its part in helping to prevent these spills.” The spending bill, which passed the House on a party-line vote and still requires approval by the Senate, would also: Block enforcement of the individual health insurance mandate. The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that without enforcement (or effective replacement) of the mandate, average health insurance premiums in 2018 and 2019 will increase 15 percent to 20 percent higher than they would otherwise. Eliminate federal healthcare funding for Planned Parenthood. Get rid of $2.5 billion worth of teacher training and arts education programs. Reduce the State Department’s budget by more than 10%. Cut 19% of funding from NOAA’s Office of Ocean and Atmospheric Research that studies climate change and extreme weather. Eliminate the competitive TIGER Infrastructure Grant Program, which is currently being used to fund improvements to the Port of San Diego. Rep. Peters continued, “At a time when we are working with our allies to counter new and dynamic threats around the world, Congress should not be gutting the State Department. At a time when extreme weather and climate change are threatening our communities and our economy, Congress should not be restricting clean air programs and climate research. And as Americans are continuing to struggle with rising healthcare costs, Congress should not be destabilizing the insurance market and raising their premiums.” “This spending package falls far short of making the investments needed to create high-paying jobs and secure our nation. It’s time for a bipartisan process that will deliver the results that the American people deserve,” Rep. Peters concluded.
09.13.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) was invited to the White House as part of a bipartisan group of House members to discuss the DACA program, tax reform, and healthcare with President Trump. During the meeting, Rep. Peters defended DREAMers and the DACA program, and explained the importance of border trade to San Diego and its opposition to a border wall. The San Diego region that Rep. Peters represents is home to 38,000 individuals who could have been eligible for DACA, the seventh-highest of any county in America. Rep. Peters has strongly criticized President Trump’s decision to rescind DACA, and has been working to bring his colleagues in Congress together to pass the DREAM Act. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “I was grateful for the invitation to come to the White House. I haven’t been afraid to criticize President Trump when I disagree with him, and will continue to do so, but San Diegans expect me to work on constructive solutions. It’s important that San Diego has a voice in the room when leaders from both parties and the president are discussing top priorities like protecting DREAMers, fixing our healthcare system, and reforming our tax code to provide relief for working families and make our businesses more competitive. “I took the opportunity to explain to President Trump that San Diego depends on cross border trade for economic growth, and doesn’t want a border wall. I told him that taxpayer money would be better spent modernizing our border crossings to more efficiently screen people and cargo crossing the border and more effectively stop those trying to smuggle drugs and weapons. This approach to border security would create greater opportunities for bipartisan cooperation. “We also discussed the importance of passing the DREAM Act to protect immigrants who came here as young children and could now be subject to deportation after President Trump’s elimination of the DACA program. DREAMers are our friends and neighbors, and we need to come up with a solution that keeps them here contributing to our communities and our economy. “This was an important bipartisan conversation and it was a first step; we won't know if it was a success until we see how the conversation translates to policy. I’ll continue fighting to get the DREAM Act passed, and I hope that President Trump remains sincere in his promise to work with both parties in Congress toward solutions.”
09.09.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted with a bipartisan majority to pass legislation that provides more than $15 billion for emergency disaster relief, funds the government at current levels through December, and extends the debt ceiling for three months. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “I am disappointed we are once again funding the government on a temporary basis. I’ve been working across the aisle on the annual defense budget that would make much needed investments in readiness. There is no reason a unified Republican Congress and White House shouldn’t have been able to at least get that across the finish line. “But this stopgap bill avoids the potentially catastrophic combination of a government shutdown and a default on our debt obligations that would devastate the economy and put Americans out of work. It also provides desperately needed relief to the people of Texas and additional resources for FEMA to respond to Hurricane Irma and the wildfires in the west. “It is particularly important that we raised the debt ceiling without any misguided attempts to tie that increase to changes or cuts to Social Security and Medicare. I oppose any effort to tie the two together. We need to work together to make sure that these indispensable programs are around for those paying into them now and for generations to come, and I am strongly opposed to playing politics with these earned benefits that seniors have paid into over a lifetime of hard work.” “It is our obligation to keep the government open and provide this relief, but moving forward I hope for a more long-term budgeting process that increases community resiliency to disasters, makes the investments in research and education that grow our economy, and gives our military leaders and business community the certainty they need.”
09.08.2017	Today, as Houston continues to recover from Hurricane Harvey, Florida prepares for Hurricane Irma, and Hurricane Juan gains strength in the Atlantic Ocean, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) and Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (NY-21) re-introduced the bipartisan Strengthening the Resiliency of Our Nation on the Ground (STRONG) Act that would help communities better prepare for natural disasters. The bill provides communities with access to information needed to prepare, plan for, and recover from natural disasters such as hurricanes and wildfires through the creation of a national resiliency information clearinghouse. This would allow states and localities to more quickly adapt planning and response techniques that have been successfully deployed in other parts of the country, making them more resilient to disasters and reducing recovery costs. “We can’t keep waiting for the next Harvey, or the next Irma, or the next big fire to finally have a national vision for strengthening community resiliency in the face of these increasing extreme weather events,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “Communities need to be preparing for disasters now, rather than just waiting for a check from the federal government after tragedy strikes. The STRONG Act would better equip state and local leaders with the tools they need to plan ahead and make their communities more resilient. Governors and Mayors would be able to see what is working in other parts of the country and harness the expertise of the federal government to adapt those solutions to their communities. This will reduce recovery costs, get people back on their feet more quickly, and in some cases, save lives.” At introduction, the STRONG Act had 14 co-sponsors. “This bipartisan legislation takes a proactive approach to disaster relief,” said Congresswoman Stefanik. “Natural disasters should be prepared for in advance to better ensure families, businesses and communities are ready when they strike. This commonsense legislation will help protect communities across the country from these devastating events.” Every dollar invested in disaster mitigation and resiliency saves an estimated four dollars in recovery and restoration costs. In response to the increase in weather-related disasters across the country, Rep. Peters is urging Congressional leaders to either pass the STRONG Act, or attach it to the next disaster relief package. Reps. Peters and Stefanik voted in favor of the initial $8 billion Hurricane Harvey relief bill. Estimates on the total cost of the storm range from $75 billion to $190 billion, which would make it the costliest disaster in American history. In addition to creating an information center for state and local governments, the STRONG Act also achieves long-term savings through other factors: it establishes a Federal interagency working group to maximize government efficiency in its support of state, local, and private sector resiliency efforts; makes sure that all levels of government are communicating weather information effectively; and creates a unified strategic vision for resiliency efforts across the Federal government moving forward.
09.05.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) slammed the announcement from the Trump Administration that the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, program will be rescinded in six months, with new applications being halted immediately. The program has allowed nearly 800,000 immigrants who arrived in the United States as young children to live openly and contribute to their communities and the economy without fear of deportation. Today’s announcement has already been strongly criticized by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Manufacturers, Microsoft, and other large employers for its cruelty and because it will wreak havoc on the American workforce and economy. San Diego County has the seventh largest population of DACA-eligible residents of any county in America, with an estimated 38,000 San Diegans who are currently eligible or could be in the future. To be eligible for DACA, an individual must: have been brought to the United States before they were 16 years old; have maintained continuous residence here since 2007; be attending school; have earned a high school diploma or equivalent, or have been honorably discharged from military service; and not have been convicted for a felony or three or more misdemeanors. DACA applicants, or DREAMers, must pay nearly $500 to apply and receive a background check and fingerprinting. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “President Trump, in a display of total and complete cowardice, has outsourced the announcement to end DACA to the Attorney General – a remarkable abdication of responsibility for the heartlessness of an action that leaves 800,000 lives in the balance. “Ending DACA is unbelievably cruel and it is un-American. It will also immediately damage our economic interests. “Expelling hundreds of thousands of people who have known no home but the United States makes us weaker and diminishes our standing in the eyes of the world. “Failures in leadership have led us to this point. Republicans in Congress refused to even allow a vote on comprehensive immigration reform in 2013 that would have protected DREAMers, which is what led to the creation of DACA in the first place. “Facing this urgent deadline, Congress must finally step up, work together, and do its job. We must move swiftly to protect DREAMers and provide them and their employers with the certainty they deserve. If Congress does not act by March 6th, 2018, it is complicit in this economic and moral catastrophe.”
08.31.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) urged President Trump to maintain the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, program that allows nearly 800,000 immigrants who arrived in the United States as young children to live openly and contribute to their communities and the economy without fear of deportation. According to various news reports, President Trump is considering ending the program despite strong objections from the business community and Congressional leaders on both sides of the aisle. San Diego County has the seventh largest population of DACA-eligible residents of any county in America, with an estimated 38,000 San Diegans who are currently eligible or could be in the future. To be eligible for DACA, an individual must have been brought to the United States before they were 16 years old; have maintained continuous residence here since 2007; be attending school, have earned a high school diploma or equivalent, or have been honorably discharged from military service; and have not been convicted of a felony or three or more misdemeanors. DACA applicants, or DREAMers, must pay nearly $500 to apply and receive a background check and fingerprinting. Ending DACA would immediately cause American companies and small businesses to lose 645,000 of the employees they depend on and cost them an estimated $3.4 billion in termination and replacement costs. This would disproportionately affect the education, health care, retail, and manufacturing sectors in which many DACA recipients are currently employed. It is also estimated that ending DACA would reduce Social Security contributions by $19.9 billion over the next decade. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “America is founded on the promise that if you work hard and play by the rules, then we will have a place for you. That’s the American dream, and there’s no reason it shouldn’t extend to people who were brought here as young children and are working to build a better life, contribute to our society and toward making their own way. “DREAMers are our friends, our neighbors, and our coworkers. Our economy is more prosperous because of their contributions. “Ending DACA would be an economic and moral debacle. It wouldn’t make us safer or fix our broken immigration system – only comprehensive immigration reform can do that. Ending DACA would only rip families apart and shoot our economy in the foot. “I urge President Trump to listen to business leaders, elected officials from both parties, and voices from places like San Diego and maintain the DACA program. And if he doesn’t, Congress must act swiftly to protect DREAMers, or it will be complicit in this hateful, misguided approach.”
08.22.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) offered his prayers for those sailors who were killed, injured, or are still missing following the collision between the U.S.S. John McCain and a commercial tanker. He also called for Congress to investigate the collision, as well as the June accident involving the U.S.S. Fitzgerald that led to the death of seven sailors, to provide recommendations for how Congress can help prevent similar accidents in the future. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “We are immensely saddened by the news of our fallen sailors and are keeping them, their families, and other members of the crew of the U.S.S. McCain in our thoughts following this terrible accident. I also offer my thanks to the search and rescue crews from the U.S. Navy and our partners that are assisting in the recovery. “These tragic, senseless collisions have taken the lives of too many brave sailors. Admiral Richardson, who I know well from his time in San Diego, initiated extraordinary actions to get to the bottom of these tragedies. I fully support the serious approach he is taking, and feel that Congress must also do its part by launching an investigation. “As we continue the pivot to the Pacific to counter new and dynamic threats, the Navy is being asked to do more than it ever has. It is Congress’ duty to provide our service members with the resources they need to carry out their missions safely and effectively. A thorough investigation by the Armed Services Committee would give Congress a better understanding of what caused these collisions – the increase in operational tempo, insufficient funding for readiness and repairs, or other factors – and how we can better equip and train our sailors to prevent similar accidents in the future.”
08.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C – Today, Rep. Scott Peters (CA-52) announced that he would help introduce a resolution censuring President Trump’s remarks that “both sides” were responsible for the violence that erupted in Charlottesville, Virginia and his failure to condemn the behavior of the white supremacists, KKK members, and the Alt-Right. The resolution will be formally introduced on Friday, August 18, 2017 when the House of Representatives is next in pro-forma session. “The hatred and violence we saw erupt in Charlottesville does not reflect who we are as a country,” said Rep. Peters. “There is only one side: the one of respect, justice, and kindness. The hateful, malicious tone set by Donald Trump—from his campaign, to his presidency, to his tweets—is only dividing us a country. It shouldn’t take an act of Congress or public shaming for President Trump to know he’s on the wrong side.” The resolution also condemns the President for employing White House staff with ties to the white supremacist movement and urges him to fire advisors who may cater to the movement in the United States.
08.15.2017	SAN DIEGO – Today, Rep. Scott Peters (CA-52) announced new benefits available to San Diego veterans through the “Forever G.I. Bill,” a sweeping reform of veterans’ education benefits passed by Congress and awaiting the President’s signature. The bipartisan bill includes legislation written by Rep. Peters to give all eligible Purple Heart recipients the full education benefits they earned, regardless of how long they served. During the press conference, Rep. Peters called on President Trump to sign the Forever G.I. Bill into law to extend and strengthen veterans’ education benefits. Rep. Peters is an original co-sponsor of the Forever G.I. Bill and a member of the Veterans Affairs Committee. Below are Rep. Peters’ remarks as delivered during the press conference: [BEGIN] Good morning, and thank you to Dr. Andrews and National University for hosting today’s news conference. We’re here today to talk about the Forever G.I. Bill that recently passed through both the House of Representatives and the Senate, and is now awaiting a signature from the President to become law. The Forever G.I. Bill modernizes veteran education benefits for the new economy— which is particularly important to San Diego, where we are home to the third largest concentration of veterans, and the largest concentration of post-9/11 veterans in the nation. In short, this new law will give our veterans greater flexibility to use the education benefits they need to successfully transition into civilian life, when they need them. It will strengthen veteran education benefits for this generation of veterans and generations to come. My purpose today is to make sure every veteran watching knows that they may be eligible for expanded educational benefits. The bill makes seven general changes that could impact thousands of San Diego veterans. First: It removes the “use it or lose it rule,” which is the 15-year time limit for G.I. Bill education benefits, for new enlistees. If you were released from active duty on or after January 1, 2013, your G.I. Bill benefits are now forever—they will no longer expire. Second: It includes legislation I introduced that expands G.I. Bill benefits for Purple Heart recipients. Currently, Purple Heart recipients had to serve for at least three years to receive full G.I. Bill benefits. Once this bill becomes law, any service member who receives a Purple Heart, regardless of how long they served, will be eligible for full G.I. Bill benefits. At our time of greatest need, Purple Heart heroes fought and bled for us. Their battle scars meet the service requirement; they have unquestionably earned these benefits, and now they are going to get them. Third: It restores benefits if a college shuts down or loses accreditation. Previously, veterans using the G.I. Bill had no recourse should a school they attended be shut down or lose accreditation—like we saw happen with ITT Tech and Corinthian. When this happened, veterans were losing their credits and their money. Now, veterans who attended a school that shut down mid-semester will have their full benefits restored. This is also retroactive and applies to schools shut down after January 1, 2015. Fourth: It expands benefits for our National Guardsman and Reservists by restoring the Reserve Educational Assistance Program (REAP) that had been terminated for new applicants. It also expands the number of Guardsman and Reservists who are eligible for education benefits. Fifth: It immediately allows veterans to use their G.I. Bill benefits to pursue high-tech programs or IT certifications, and for some eligible veterans to pursue independent study programs at certain technical or vocational schools. Sixth: Beginning in August of 2018, it expands out-of-state tuition assistance— known as the Yellow Ribbon Program— to Purple Heart recipients and to dependents and spouses of service members killed in the line of duty. And in 2022, this benefit will also become available to active duty members, which currently isn’t the case. Seventh: It brings a common sense reform to the way student veterans determine their housing benefits. Instead of the price calculation being determined by the where the school is headquartered, it will now be determined based on where a student attends the majority of his or her classes. Additionally, it helps reservists who are called to active duty during their studies, by pro-rating the housing benefits for that month. Previously, these students would lose the whole month of rent, even if they were on active duty for just one day. There are many more elements and benefits that were expanded as part of the Forever G.I. Bill— too many to try and detail here today. But I encourage any Post-9/11 veteran who thinks they may be eligible for new benefits to contact their Member of Congress or the VA to find out what they may now qualify for under this new law. Finally, I want to close by urging the President to sign this bill into law immediately – because some of these benefits will go into effect immediately. I want to thank everyone who joined us here today: Jack Harkins, Sean Mahoney, Cielo Villasenor, Sgt. Ben Holmes, and all the other veterans who came out today to be a part of this, and Dr. Michael Cunningham, who we’ll hear from next. [END]
08.09.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced that during his time in Congress his office has helped recover more than $3 million in federal funds owed to San Diegans. Rep. Peters and his San Diego staff have helped more than 3,700 constituents who were having trouble getting answers and the funds they were owed, including military and veterans benefits, Social Security and Medicare payments, tax disputes with the Internal Revenue Service, and other federal benefits. The benefits recovered were more than $1.4 million in benefits earned by veterans, almost $760,000 in Social Security and Medicare payments for San Diego seniors, and more than $343,000 from the Internal Revenue Service. During that time, Rep. Peters’ office has also helped 867 San Diegans with passport and immigration issues. “It doesn’t always take an act of Congress to serve San Diegans,” said Rep. Peters. “One of my most important jobs is helping San Diegans navigate the federal bureaucracy. Many people aren’t aware of the numerous services available free of charge through their Congressional office. I want to make sure San Diegans know that we’re here to help them cut through red tape and get the answers and benefits they have earned.” Rep. Peters encourages San Diegans to visit the How We Can Help page of his website or call his San Diego office at 858-455-5550 to learn about the various ways his staff can assist them with casework related to federal benefits.
08.08.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement on a report that North Korea has developed a miniaturized nuclear warhead that can fit inside its missiles: “If true, this report confirms that North Korea is on the cusp of becoming a full nuclear-armed state, making it a threat to not only American security interests and allies, but to the homeland. “Sanctions passed by Congress and recently signed by President Trump will deny North Korea resources to finance its illicit weapons activities. And I commend the State Department for working with the international community – including China – through the United Nations to ratchet up sanctions enforcement on Kim Jong-un’s regime. “But sanctions alone are insufficient. We need an unyielding, long-term strategy to check North Korean aggression and prevent an escalation of hostilities that would have devastating consequences for thousands of American service members stationed in Asia, millions of civilians, and the global economy. “President Trump’s Twitter diplomacy confuses our allies, provokes our enemies, and neglects the pressing need for a comprehensive strategy to deal with North Korea. “I urge him to work with leaders in Congress, the military, and our regional partners to develop a smart, strong strategy involving diplomatic pressure, advanced missile defense, and nuclear modernization that will help avert a devastating conflict with North Korea and keep America and our service members safe.”
07.31.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) and a group of 43 Republicans and Democrats unveiled a set of solutions to stabilize the individual health insurance markets and slow the rise of premiums and deductibles. Rep. Peters has worked to bring leaders from both sides together on bipartisan solutions since the beginning of the health care debate. He was active in discussions to reach consensus on these proposals among members of the Problem Solvers Caucus, a group of 43 members from both parties who are committed to bipartisanship. These proposed solutions are the first to get bipartisan support after the failure of the Senate Republicans’ attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Some of the details in the Problem Solvers proposal mirror the solutions put forward both in Rep. Peters’ op-ed and the market stabilization plan that he announced with nine other Democrats earlier this month. A summary of Rep. Peters’ actions this year to protect and fix the Affordable Care Act is listed at the end of this statement. "This is a starting point for bipartisan solutions to stabilize the individual insurance market, keep Americans covered, and slow the rise of premiums and deductibles,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “We all acknowledge there are parts of the Affordable Care Act that need to be fixed and parts that need to be protected, and we are putting party politics aside to get to work. Even on an issue as contentious as health care, in an atmosphere as partisan as D.C., we have found this common ground that we can build from." Bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus Proposal to Stabilize the Individual Market It is clear that the individual health insurance market is deteriorating in some areas of the country and we must act quickly to stabilize it. We all agree that the individual market needs restructuring, and we should swiftly implement changes in time to take effect for insurance plans offered for 2018. Committees of jurisdiction should begin to address the issue through regular order. To stabilize the individual market and provide some immediate relief, we propose exploring​ realistic solutions including the following: 1. Bring cost-sharing reduction (CSR) payments under the Congressional oversight and appropriations process, but ensure they have mandatory funding. CSR payments are an important part of helping households earning between 100% and 250% of the federal poverty level afford to participate in the individual market. Bringing CSR payments under the appropriations process ensures that Congress can provide proper oversight. 2. Create a dedicated stability fund that states can use to reduce premiums and limit losses for providing coverage—especially for those with pre-existing conditions. 3. Adjust the employer mandate by raising the threshold on the requirement for employers to provide insurance under the employer mandate to businesses of 500 employees or more. The current employer mandate places a regulatory burden on smaller employers and acts as a disincentive for many small businesses to grow past 50 employees. Additionally, the definition of “full time” under the employer mandate should indicate that a full-time work week is 40 hours. 4. Repeal the medical device tax. This tax adds a 2.3% sales tax on medical device supplies. The costs of the tax are passed on to consumers and it should be repealed. 5. Provide technical changes and clear guidelines for states that want to innovate on the exchange or enter into regional compacts to improve coverage and create more options for consumers. ● Section 1332 of the ACA allows states to innovate and share in health savings while offering strong plans with all essential health benefits. Some states have begun to experiment in this regard, with great potential for success. However, some technical legislative changes and/or revised HHS guidance may improve attractiveness to additional states. ● Similarly, Section 1333 of the ACA allows states to enter into Health Care Choice Compacts, which allow insurers to sell across state lines in participating states. However, HHS has not yet released regulations on Section 1333. HHS should issue clear guidelines and work with states to spur innovation and bring more choice and competition to the market while protecting consumers. We must continue to explore additional ways to improve patient choice and responsibility, create positive incentives for providers to lower costs, and enhance state flexibility. During the August work period we will meet with constituents and stakeholders and will return to Congress ready to take action. We believe that this proposal should be paid for. We stand ready to work to find agreeable offsets within federal health care spending. A summary of Rep. Peters’ actions this year to protect and fix the Affordable Care Act: July 28: Rep. Peters called for Congress to get to work on bipartisan health care solutions after Senate Republicans failed to pass their bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act July 25: Reps. Peters, Welch, and Schrader led 86 Democrats asking Speaker Ryan to work with them on bipartisan health care solutions. July 18: Rep. Peters and other members of the New Democrat Coalition met with Republicans from the Tuesday Group to discuss a bipartisan path forward on health care. July 18: Rep. Peters urged bipartisanship after a majority of U.S. Senators came out against the most recent health care repeal bill. July 17: Rep. Peters called out Secretary Price for his admission that health care repeal would take American backwards and again urged bipartisan health care solutions. July 12: Rep. Peters and a group of House Democrats from across the political spectrum unveiled a five-part plan to stabilize the individual health insurance marketplace and slow the growth of premiums and deductibles. July 7: Rep. Peters put forward his own proposals to stabilize the individual insurance markets in op-ed in the San Diego Union Tribune. June 26: Rep. Peters sharply criticized the Senate Republican healthcare repeal bill after an analysis from the Congressional Budget Office found that it would cause 22 million fewer Americans to have health insurance, including 4 million Americans who would lose employer-sponsored coverage next year. May 24: Rep. Peters criticized the Republican healthcare repeal bill after an updated analysis from the Congressional Budget Office showed that it would leave 23 million more Americans without coverage. May 4: Rep. Peters debated and voted against the Republican health care repeal bill on the House floor. March 24: Rep. Peters debated against the Republican health care bill on the House floor, helping to stop it from getting a vote. March 21: Rep. Peters led 95 Democratic members of Congress to demand that Speaker Ryan give the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) time to “score” the substantive changes to the Republican healthcare repeal bill before scheduling it for a vote in the House. March 13: Rep. Peters slammed the Congressional Republicans’ healthcare bill after the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office estimated the bill would result in 14 million more Americans not having health insurance next year, and 24 million fewer covered by 2026. March 9: After a marathon 27 hour meeting, Rep. Peters voted against advancing the Republican healthcare repeal out of the Energy and Commerce Committee. March 8: Rep. Peters urged fiscal responsibility and bipartisanship during the first day of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s markup of the first House Republican health care repeal bill.
07.28.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) called for Congress to get to work on bipartisan health care solutions after Senate Republicans failed to pass their bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act last night. On Tuesday, Reps. Peters, Welch, and Schrader led a letter signed by a total of 89 House Democrats to Speaker Ryan asking him to work with them on bipartisan health care solutions. The proposals in the letter were largely drawn from the Solutions Over Politics plan that Rep. Peters and nine other Democrats introduced earlier this month to stabilize the individual health insurance markets and slow the rise of premiums and deductibles. Rep. Peters also put forward his own market stabilization proposals in an op-ed in the San Diego Union Tribune. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “Now is the time for Congress to get to work together on bipartisan solutions to stabilize the individual insurance markets, keep Americans covered, and slow the rise of premiums. “I am working right now to bring together members from both sides. Even on an issue as contentious as health care, in an atmosphere as partisan as D.C., there is common ground to build from. We all acknowledge that there are parts of the Affordable Care Act that need to be fixed and parts that need to be protected, so let’s put party politics aside and get to work. “Beginning now, this process needs to be the opposite of what we have seen from Republican leadership over the past few months. It has to be bipartisan; it has to use an open committee process to get ideas from all members and from experts; and it has to be focused on the specific policy goal of improving the availability and affordability of health insurance for Americans.”
07.27.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted against a partisan funding bill that could lead to dangerous across the board defense cuts, would eliminate an energy research program that has funded millions of dollars of innovative research in San Diego, and allocates $1.6 billion for a border wall, including $251 million earmarked for 14 miles of secondary fencing in San Diego County. Because the Republican controlled Congress has not passed a budget that raises the spending limits on the Department of Defense, signing this bill into law would result in arbitrary, across-the-board sequester cuts on the Department of Defense starting with the new fiscal year in September. Rep. Adam Smith, ranking member of the House Armed Services Committee, has said about the impending sequester, “It’s headed toward a colossal crackup. They are passing a bill that will be null and void in order to both say, ‘I didn’t vote to lift the caps, and I did vote for more defense spending.’ This is an enormous waste of time, all because they don’t want to honestly address the issue.” The bill also completely eliminates the Advanced Research Projects Agency – Energy, which supports early-stage, cutting edge energy technology research. UC San Diego has received 21 ARPA-E grants totaling $15 million over just the last five years including for projects to increase grid security and efficiency. Last year, Achates Power in Sorrento Valley received the largest award ARPA-E has ever given, a $9 million grant to make an innovative, more efficient combustion engine. Since 2009, ARPA-E has provided $1.5 billion in funding to more than 580 projects that have led to the formation of 56 new companies, spawned 68 projects with other government agencies including the Department of Defense, and attracted more than $1.8 billion in additional private sector investment. Rep. Scott Peters released the following statement: “I will not vote to tie the hands of the Department of Defense as it counters new and dynamic threats around the world. “This bill is an illusion. It will be invalidated and replaced with devastating cuts unless Congress does it job and passes a budget that allows for robust defense spending. “This wrong-headed bill will also eliminate ARPA-E, a tremendously successful program that has funded millions of dollars of cutting edge energy research at UC San Diego and San Diego companies. This research has led to job-creating private sector investment and discoveries that gave our military new technology. Eliminating this program doesn’t just hurt San Diego’s innovation economy, it takes a tool away from our military and surrenders American leadership in energy innovation. “All you have to know about the priorities in this bill is that it eliminates this energy program, and instead spends six times as much as that program costs on a border wall that doesn’t have a final price tag or a purpose. “I have voted for every defense spending and authorization bill since I came to Congress, and I supported this year’s authorization, but I will not advance this broken process that could lead to a disastrous sequester. Congress needs to get back to work and pass a budget to avoid across the board cuts on our military and make the investments in technology and readiness that our service members need.”
07.27.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted in the Energy and Commerce Committee to advance the Drinking Water Systems Improvement Act, a comprehensive update to the Safe Drinking Water Act that authorizes $8 billion over five years for drinking water revolving funds, allows these funds to be used to repair or replace existing treatment facilities and pipes, and increases the use of smart technology for safety and compliance. This bipartisan legislation also includes Rep. Peters’ Secure and Resilient Water Systems Act, which gives communities the funding and guidance to better protect their drinking water systems from threats like drought, industrial pollution, and cyberattacks. The program would prioritize the water systems at greatest risk, require emergency response plans for water systems, and encourage communities to adopt innovative approaches like water efficiency and water recycling. “Today, we took a bipartisan step towards reasserting the federal government’s role in providing funding and expertise to help communities maintain safe drinking water systems,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “This bill will allocate more robust funding for drinking water safety, lead to the deployment of more smart sensor technologies, and make it easier for communities to use federal resources to repair or replace aging pipes. It also incorporates my Secure and Resilient Water Systems Act, which will give local communities like San Diego the guidance and resources they need to innovate and address threats to their drinking water systems.” “I am pleased that Congressman Peters’ Secure and Resilient Water Systems Act was incorporated in today’s overall update to the Safe Drinking Water Act,” said Rep. Frank Pallone, Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee. “This provision will ensure that community water systems identify and address their vulnerabilities to better withstand extreme weather, drought, earthquakes, and security threats. I thank Congressman Peters for his continued leadership in securing clean drinking water for all Americans.” Click HERE or above to view Rep. Peters speak about his Secure and Resilient Water Systems Act during today’s markup. The American Society of Civil Engineers recently gave U.S. water infrastructure a “D” grade on its annual report card. As included in the legislation passed today, Rep. Peters’ Secure and Resilient Water Systems Act amends the Safe Drinking Water Act to direct water systems to assess threats within two years, with EPA guidance. It also authorizes $50 million for each year from FY17-21 to establish a program at the EPA that would provide grants for communities to address these threats.
07.26.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) slammed President Trump’s Twitter announcement that he will ban the service of transgender individuals in the U.S. military and filed an amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations bill to block it. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “I can’t think of anything more backwards than turning away a brave, qualified American who wants to serve in our all-volunteer military because of their gender identity. “There are already thousands of transgender Americans serving honorably and openly in our Armed Forces. There is a former member of SEAL Team 6 – the most elite military unit in history – that came out as transgender. “Just as we did with the repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, Congress must stand up against backwards politics, trust our military leaders, and put national security first.” According to a RAND study commissioned by the Pentagon, there are already between 1,320 and 6,630 transgender individuals serving on active duty in the U.S. military. It is not clear how those service members will be treated under this new policy. The study also found that lifting that ban on the enlistment of transgender Americans would have a negligible impact on readiness, and no significant effect on cohesion or effectiveness.
07.25.2017	Today, U.S. Congressmen Scott Peters (CA-52), Peter Welch (VT-AL), and Kurt Schrader (OR-05) led 86 House Democratic colleagues asking Speaker Ryan to work with them on bipartisan solutions to help fix the health care system and slow the growth of premiums and deductibles. The letter to Speaker Ryan, signed by more than forty percent of House Democrats from across the country and the political spectrum, comes as Senate Republicans are faltering in their attempts to repeal and possibly replace the Affordable Care Act. It includes specific proposals to stabilize the individual health insurance market and keep premiums down from the Solutions Over Politics plan that Reps. Peters, Welch, Schrader and seven other Democrats put forward earlier this month. “Every day Republicans falter in their misguided efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act all by themselves instead of working with willing Democrats to fix it, American families are struggling with rising health care costs. It is simply not true that Democrats have refused to offer solutions and work across the aisle. My colleagues and I have been reaching out to Republicans for months,” said Rep. Scott Peters “This letter is proof of support for bipartisan health care solutions to fix what isn’t working with the Affordable Care Act and keep premiums down. The only question now is if Speaker Ryan will abandon his one-party approach to health care and work with all of us on solutions to make health care more affordable and available for hardworking American families.” The 89 total signatories to the letter were as follows: Peter Welch, Kurt Schrader, Scott Peters, Ami Bera, M.D., Ann McLane Kuster, Terri Sewell, Kathleern Rice, Jim Himes, Ron Kind, Suzan DelBene, Pete Aguilar, Karen Bass, Donald S. Beyer Jr., Suzanne Bonamici, Brendan F. Boyle, Anthony Brown, Julia Brownley, Cheri Bustos, Salud Carbajal, Tony Cárdenas, André Carson, Matt Cartwright, Joaquin Castro, Steve Cohen, Jim Cooper, Gerald E. Connolly, Lou Correa, Jim Costa, Joe Courtney, Charlie Crist, Henry Cuellar, Elijah E. Cummings, Peter A. DeFazio, Diana DeGette, John K. Delaney, Ted Deutch, Eliot L. Engel, Elizabeth H. Esty, Bill Foster, John Garamendi, Vicente Gonzalez, Al Green, Gene Green, Colleen Hanabusa, Alcee Hastings, Denny Heck, Brian Higgins, Jared Huffman, Hakeem Jeffries, Marcy Kaptur, William R. Keating, Ruben J. Kihuen, Derek Kilmer, Raja Krishnamoorthi, Rick Larsen, Sheila Jackson Lee, Dave Loebsack, Alan Lowenthal, Sean Patrick Maloney, Betty McCollum, Jerry McNerney, Greg Meeks, Seth Moulton, Stephanie Murphy, Tom O'Halleran, Beto O'Rourke, Raul Ruiz, M.D., Jimmy Panetta, Ed Perlmutter, Jared Polis, Chellie Pingree, Mike Quigley, Jamie Raskin, Cedric Richmond, Lisa Blunt Rochester, Jacky Rosen, Adam Schiff, Bradley S. Schneider, David Scott, Carol Shea-Porter, Louise Slaughter, Darren Soto, Thomas R. Suozzi, Mike Thompson, Dina Titus, Paul D. Tonko, Norma Torres, Filemon Vela, and Tim Walz. The text of the letter can be read in full below: [BEGIN TEXT] Dear Speaker Ryan, We strongly support the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and oppose any effort to repeal it. While we know you and many in your conference disagree with us, we believe there is a significant point of agreement. The individual market, accounting for seven percent of health care enrollees nationwide, needs improvement. Senate Republicans have indicated a willingness to work with Democrats to address this. We are ready to work with you in a bipartisan manner to stabilize and improve the individual market. The Challenge to the Individual Market When the ACA markets opened in 2014, it was a challenge for insurers to price their products. They had little claims data on and experience with an expanded group of customers with which to make actuarially accurate predictions. The risk mitigation programs in the ACA, which subsidize high cost enrollees, were largely successful in addressing the early pricing challenges, helping ease the adjustment period in the individual market. The risk corridor program, designed to address uncertainty in the insurance pool, encountered implementation and stability issues. According to nonpartisan analysis, individual markets began to stabilize between 2015 and early 2017, but face issues in 2018 largely due to policy uncertainty. While we may disagree on why this is the case, the fact remains our constituents would benefit from bipartisan Congressional action to bring long-term stability and predictability to the individual market. What Congress Can Do Congress must address market uncertainty with clear bipartisan policies that will stabilize the individual market and protect citizens who depend on them. These policies include: 1. Reauthorizing and making permanent federal reinsurance programs. These programs provide a backstop against high cost medical claims while also reducing premiums in the individual and small group markets. Alaska and Oregon have taken steps to implement such programs, and both have shown promise to reduce premium increases dramatically. A recent analysis cited by America’s Health Insurance Plans estimated that if Congress provided $15 billion to states for reinsurance, it would lower premiums by more than 14 percent. This in turn would reduce the need for tax credits. The net effect would be a reduction in overall cost of this improvement from $15 billion to an estimated $4 billion. 2. Funding the Cost-Sharing Reduction Subsidies (CSR). The ACA helps millions of families purchase affordable health coverage, and helps keep out of pocket costs low through the cost sharing reduction payments. These payments reduce copays and deductibles for lower and middle-income families across the country. A Kaiser Family Foundation study found that eliminating the CSR payments would increase government spending by $2.3 billion next year. Uncertainty about the future of the CSR program is causing extreme instability in the marketplace, the major factor forcing insurers to consider withdrawing from markets or imposing unaffordable premium increases. We should put this uncertainty to rest. While a simple administrative directive affirming current law could return markets to stability, Congress could work on a bipartisan basis to underscore that there is an appropriation to address Republican concerns with simple technical clarifying language, at no federal cost, to guarantee the CSR payments going forward. 3. Getting more people covered, and ensuring participation. The broader the participation in the health insurance market, the better it is for all citizens and health plans. California has essentially reached full coverage in part because Covered California has spent more on advertising than all of the federally-managed exchanges combined. We support investment in advertising during the open enrollment period, particularly to encourage the participation of the young and healthy. All Americans will face significant health issues at some point in their lives, so we must ensure that they are covered and contribute to the insurance market. The ACA requires them to come into the market and take responsibility for their health. We support those requirements; however we recognize there are other ways to meet this goal. Some have suggested auto-enrollment or affordable plans for young people that maintain the protections offered by the ACA. 4. Ensuring quality affordable options exist. We must continue our efforts to make health coverage more affordable for all Americans, while retaining the critical benefits that families rely on when a loved one is sick. We can do so by expanding premium assistance to directly bring down the cost of insurance. We are willing to explore options to target this assistance by age and geography as well as income. In addition, we support providing some enrollees the option to buy in to Medicare as they approach retirement age, allowing for additional affordable and reliable options through traditional Medicare and Medicare Advantage programs. There are other practical improvements we can make to the ACA. These include taking steps to increase competition where insurer participation is low, reducing churn in the market, and providing clear guidelines for state innovation waivers that maintain the ACA’s quality standards. And where improvements to the ACA require funding, we are prepared to work with you to identify offsets to pay for them. The cost of stabilizing the individual market is modest while the benefit to the American people is great. The only way to productively solve these challenges is by working together. We are ready to work with you and the Republican conference. [END TEXT]
07.24.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted with a bipartisan majority to pass the Forever G.I. Bill, a sweeping expansion of veterans education benefits. The Forever G.I. Bill includes a provision written by Rep. Peters to make all Purple Heart recipients eligible for full education benefits, regardless of their length of active-duty service. As included in the Forever G.I. Bill, Rep. Peters’ legislation will help an estimated 660 Purple Heart veterans per year pursue a college degree or job training. The Forever GI Bill would also end the 15-year time limit on using GI Bill education benefits for new enlistees, provide greater parity for National Guardsmen and reservists, allow veterans to use their benefits on a greater variety of programs including STEM and technical training, and restore benefits to veterans who attend colleges that shut down in the middle of a semester – including for those veterans who were disrupted by the ITT Tech and Corinthian closures last year. The bill now moves to the Senate, were an identical version is expected to pass quickly and be sent to the President’s desk. “At our time of greatest need, Purple Heart heroes fought and bled for us. As far as I am concerned, their battle scars meet the service requirement; they have unquestionably earned these benefits, and now they are going to get them,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “The Forever GI Bill modernizes veterans education benefits for the new economy – giving San Diego veterans greater flexibility to use their benefits for the educational opportunities they need, when they need them. This will strengthen veterans education benefits for this generation of veterans and generations to come.”
07.19.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) and the House Veterans Affairs Committee voted unanimously to pass a sweeping reform of veterans education benefits that has been dubbed the ‘Forever G.I. Bill’. These bipartisan reforms include a provision written by Rep. Peters to give full education benefits to all Purple Heart recipients, regardless of their length of active-duty service. Rep. Peters is an original co-sponsor of the Forever GI Bill, which would also end the 15-year time limit on using GI Bill education benefits for new enlistees, provide greater parity for National Guardsmen and reservists, and restore benefits to veterans who attend colleges that shut down in the middle of a semester – including for those veterans who were disrupted by the ITT Tech and Corinthian closures last year. G.I. Bill benefits are based on a rating system, with 36 months of active-duty service required for a 100% rating. One out of every five Purple Heart veterans from the War on Terror who is using G.I. benefits does not qualify for the full rating, and others are discouraged from pursuing an education at all because their benefit doesn’t cover the full cost of attending. As included in the Forever G.I. Bill, Rep. Peters’ legislation will help an estimated 660 Purple Heart veterans per year pursue a college degree or job training. “'At our time of greatest need, Purple Heart heroes fought and bled for us. Their battle scars meet the service requirement; they have unquestionably earned these benefits, and now they are going to get them,” said Rep. Scott Peters. "MOPH fully understands why there is a minimum service requirement for the Post-9/11 GI Bill. However, we firmly believe that any veteran who shed their blood for our country has fully met that requirement,” said Aleks Morosky, National Legislative Director for the Military Order of the Purple Heart. “Unfortunately, many Purple Heart recipients don't fully qualify for those benefits today, preventing them from reaching their academic goals after their wounds have healed. The landmark legislation advanced by the House Veterans Affairs Committee today contains a provision that would finally correct this injustice, and we would like to thank all Members of the Committee for their support, especially Representative Scott Peters. As the original author of that provision, he has fought for wounded veterans every step of the way throughout this process, and we truly appreciate his leadership on this issue." Rep. Peters continued by addressing how the Forever GI Bill will help San Diego veterans, “The Forever GI Bill is the first update to veterans education benefits in nearly a decade, and honors the promise we make to our veterans to help them get a quality education that will set them up for success. It brings veterans education benefits into the 21st century – giving San Diego veterans greater flexibility to use their benefits for the educational opportunities they need, when they need them. This bipartisan work will strengthen education benefits for this generation of veterans and generations to come, and I will continue working to see this signed into law.” Click HERE or above to hear Rep. Peters speak in support of the inclusion of his Purple Heart bill as part of the bipartisan Forever G.I. Bill. The Forever G.I. Bill is supported by Democrats and Republicans on the Veterans Affairs Committee, Congressional leadership, and nearly 40 veterans service organizations. It is expected to receive a prompt vote in the House next week.
07.18.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) urged bipartisanship after a majority of U.S. Senators came out against the most recent health care repeal bill, effectively ending the Republican efforts to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act by themselves. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has called for a vote to completely repeal the Affordable Care Act, which would leave 32 million Americans without health care, double premiums for those who still have insurance, and strip away protections for the sick. President Trump has suggested letting the current system “fail.” Rep. Peters released the following statement: “The failure of the Republicans’ misguided effort to replace the Affordable Care Act by themselves is good news for the millions of Americans who would have seen their premiums rise or lost their health insurance altogether under the Republican plan. “Now is not the time for Republicans to double down on their partisan strategy, or for Democrats to high-five over the other side’s political disaster. “Full repeal or failure of the current system would take us back to a time where an unexpected illness can bankrupt a family and our emergency rooms are full of parents seeking basic care for their children. “Americans don’t send leaders to D.C. to fail, they send us here to work together on solutions. Now is the time for Democrats and Republicans to get serious about bipartisan health care solutions. “Last week, my colleagues and I introduced a plan – Solutions Over Politics – to stabilize the individual health insurance market to increase choice for Americans that use the exchanges and slow growth of premiums and deductibles. These are solutions that members of both parties can support, and should be the starting point for a bipartisan, open process to protect what is working in our health care system, and fix what isn’t.” Last week, Rep. Peters and his colleagues introduced the five-part Solutions Over Politics health care plan that includes Rep. Peters’ priorities to make federal reinsurance programs permanent, commit to long-term funding for Cost-Sharing Reduction Payments, and boost the participation of young, healthy enrollees in the marketplace. These solutions are aimed at increasing choice and keeping costs down. A robust reinsurance stability fund would reduce premiums in 2018 by an average of 15%. Continuing to fund CSR payments would save the government $2.3 billion in spending per year and help working families afford health care. And without enforcement (or effective replacement) of the current mandate, average premiums in 2018 and 2019 are projected to increase 15 percent to 20 percent higher than they would otherwise.
07.17.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) pointed to Secretary of Health and Human Services Tom Price’s admission that the Republican health care repeal would take America back to a health care system where a serious illness could bankrupt a family, and again called on Congress to work together to improve the Affordable Care Act, rather than repeal it. In an interview with ABC News, Secretary Price said that, under the Republican repeal bill, insurance companies would, “dust off how they did business before Obamacare.” In San Diego County, the uninsured rate has fallen from 17% to just 5% under implementation of the Affordable Care Act. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “Secretary Price just admitted what has been clear from the beginning: this Republican repeal bill would take us back to a system where an unexpected illness could bankrupt a hardworking American family. While Republicans are failing in their reckless attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act, hardworking American families are struggling with rising premiums and deductibles that would get worse, not better, under the Republican bill. “Last week, my colleagues and I introduced a plan to stabilize the individual health insurance market that would increase choice for Americans who use the exchanges and slow the growth of premiums and deductibles. It’s time for Republicans to work with Democrats on real solutions to protect what is working in our health care system and fix what isn’t.” Last week, Rep. Peters and his colleagues introduced the five-part Solutions Over Politics health care plan that includes Rep. Peters’ priorities to make federal reinsurance programs permanent, commit to long-term funding for Cost-Sharing Reduction Payments, and boost the participation of young, healthy enrollees in the marketplace. These solutions are aimed at increasing choice and keeping costs down. A robust reinsurance stability fund would reduce premiums in 2018 by an average of 15%. Continuing to fund CSR payments would save the government $2.3 billion in spending per year and help working families afford health care. And without enforcement (or effective replacement) of the current mandate, average premiums in 2018 and 2019 are projected to increase 15 percent to 20 percent higher than they would otherwise.
07.14.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) honored San Diego’s LGBT community and marked the beginning of this weekend’s Pride celebration. As City Council President, he led the efforts on the San Diego City Council to oppose Prop. 8 and to join an amicus brief to the Supreme Court in 2007 opposing the Defense of Marriage Act, and he later served on the San Diego LGBT Center Board of Directors. In Congress, Rep. Peters celebrated the marriage equality decision in 2015 and has helped lead the charge for federal non-discrimination laws by supporting the Equality Act. He also passed legislation that would outlaw discrimination against LGBT federal workers and contractors, and last year led the opposition on the Armed Services Committee to discriminatory provisions in the annual defense bill, which ultimately were not signed into law and not offered again this year. “San Diego has been out front on LGBT equality and leadership. During Pride, we celebrate these victories and what we’ve accomplished-from marriage equality to California’s anti-discrimination laws,” said Rep. Peters. “While these are challenging times for those fighting to guarantee civil rights for LGBT Americans and other communities, I will continue working to ensure every American, regardless of who they are or who they love, enjoys the same fundamental privileges of respect, kindness, and equality under the law. These principles helped define our nation, and my service in public office.” Rep. Peters concluded, “I am always reinvigorated by seeing leaders and allies during Pride weekend, and look forward to the celebration. Happy Pride, San Diego.”
07.14.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass the National Defense Authorization Act, which lays out defense spending and policy for the next fiscal year. This year’s legislation includes a 2.4% pay raise for service members, the largest in 8 years; a 50% increase in funding for Navy shipbuilding that will continue construction of new aircraft carriers and provide the Navy with three new Littoral Combat Ships and three new destroyers; and additional resources to meet the Navy and Marine Corps’ previously unfunded requirements for additional fighter jets. The bill authorizes $487 million for new military construction in San Diego County – including $259 million to support Navy Special Operations Forces on Coronado – which will give San Diego’s military leaders the resources they have requested and boost the region’s economy. In a victory for defense energy security, the House-passed version of NDAA does not include provisions that prevent the military from investing in alternative energy or restrict its ability to plan for how climate change will alter the global security environment and threaten U.S. military installations. Rep. Peters has been a leader on these issues since coming to Congress, and helped lead a bipartisan defeat of two amendments that would have chilled defense energy investment and halted research on climate change as a national security threat. Rep. Peters released the following statement after voting in favor of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which passed on a bipartisan 344-81 vote: “Providing for a smart, robust national defense that keeps Americans safe and gives our military the tools to defeat our enemies abroad is the most important thing we do in Congress. Today I voted to give our service members their largest raise in eight years, provide the Navy and Marine Corps with new planes and ships that will enable them to better carry out their missions, and ensure that the military can continue its energy innovation that saves lives and reduces costs. “I have seen broken parts on military aircraft being replaced by cannibalizing parts from other planes. At a time when we are finally pushing back ISIS, and facing increased aggression from North Korea, this is unacceptable. Today’s bill would increase funds for new planes for the Navy and Marines, and provide an additional boost for readiness that will help keep planes in the air to train our pilots and enable them to respond to the new and dynamic threats we ask them to face. “The funding we authorized for military construction in San Diego County will continue the modernization of the Navy SEAL facilities on Coronado, provide a new simulator and hangar upgrades at Miramar, and improve facilities at Camp Pendleton. This not only gives San Diego’s service members more of the resources they have asked for to carry out their mission, but further expands the military’s investment in San Diego that supports job creation and drives one-fifth of our region’s economy.” “And we finally passed a defense authorization bill that gives the military the freedom to pursue its energy security goals and prepare for the threat of climate change. Congress cannot afford to let politics get in the way of letting the military invest in energy innovation and prepare for how a changing climate puts our military bases at risk and changes the scope and nature of the threats we face.” Click HERE to see Rep. Peters help defeat an anti-energy security amendment, and HERE to see him help defeat an amendment that would have prevented the Pentagon from studying the national security threat posed by climate change. The NDAA bill increases funding to $50 million for Impact Aid for schools that serve large number of military-connected students. This is of particular importance to San Diego where about 10 percent of students are children of active duty parents. Coronado Unified School District received $1.5 million in Impact Aid during the 2015-2016 school year, while San Diego Unified received more than $12 million. The bill also authorizes the military to reimburse a service member up to $500 for a spouse’s expenses related to obtaining licensing or certification in another state because of a military move.
07.12.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) and a group of House Democrats from across the political spectrum unveiled a five-part plan to stabilize the individual health insurance marketplace and slow the growth of premiums and deductibles. Over the weekend, Rep. Peters wrote an op-ed for the San Diego Union Tribune arguing that Congress should come together to fix the Affordable Care Act and make health insurance more available and affordable for Americans. The three solutions that Rep. Peters laid out in that op-ed – making federal reinsurance programs permanent, committing to long-term funding for Cost-Sharing Reduction Payments, and boosting the participation of young, healthy enrollees in the marketplace – are included in the plan announced today. These solutions are aimed at increasing choice and keeping costs down. A robust reinsurance stability fund would reduce premiums in 2018 by an average of 15%. Continuing to fund CSR payments would save the government $2.3 billion in spending per year and help working families afford health care. And without enforcement (or effective replacement) of the current mandate, average premiums in 2018 and 2019 are projected to increase 15 percent to 20 percent higher than they would otherwise. “Republicans are faltering in their misguided attempt to work only within their own party to repeal the Affordable Care Act. This failure is causing the real problems in our health care system to go unaddressed,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “It is not our job as Democrats to just stand by and watch this happen. San Diegans send me to Congress to solve problems and get things done. We need to develop real solutions that can gain support from both parties and help make health care more available and affordable for Americans. By stabilizing the individual insurance markets, the proposals we announced today would help increase choice for Americans who use the exchanges and slow the growth of premiums and deductibles. It’s beyond time for Congress to put politics aside and get to work together on bipartisan solutions like these that protect what is working in our health care system and fix what isn’t.” Click HERE or above to view Rep. Peters speaking at the announcement today. The plan, titled Solutions Over Politics, seeks to stabilize the individual market while protecting plans for people with pre-existing conditions, keeping costs down for lower income Americans, promoting enrollment and ensuring everyone pays their fair share. The plan also calls for improvements to the ACA including aligning the open enrollment period with tax season and drawing bidding areas to ensure that rural areas aren’t left at a disadvantage. The other Democrats who announced the plan are Reps. Kurt Schrader (OR-05), Ami Bera (CA-07), Ann McLane Kuster (NH-02), Peter Welch (VT-At Large), Terri Sewell (AL-07), Kathleen Rice (NY-04), Jim Himes (CT-04), Ron Kind (WI-03), and Suzan DelBene (WA-01). Read the white paper here.
06.29.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted against a pair of reckless immigration bills that would undermine law enforcement and public safety in San Diego. H.R. 3003 forces local law enforcement to do the job of federal immigration officers and would withhold federal law enforcement resources – including COPS grants and Byrne-JAG grants – from police departments that do not comply. San Diego’s law enforcement – which has not expressed a need for this bill – have long been leaders in community policing, and have received bipartisan support for their immigration enforcement policies that prioritize maintaining strong relationships with immigrant and minority communities. H.R. 3004 expands the already-severe penalties for illegal re-entry in the country without providing due process protections for individuals seeking asylum or refugee status. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “Our immigration system is broken, and these proposals would do absolutely nothing to fix it. They would, however, undermine the autonomy of local law enforcement in San Diego and the culture of trust that keeps our city safe. “Congress wants to blackmail San Diego into altering its successful community policing policies. This would have a chilling effect on how victims and witnesses from immigrant communities in San Diego cooperate with law enforcement, which is a hindrance to stopping crime and threatens public safety. “Suspected criminals are already prosecuted to the full extent of the law – regardless of their immigration status – and the existing penalty for illegal re-entry by convicted felons is already severe. Extending those penalties to non-violent criminals is a poor use of limited taxpayer resources. “Instead of these misguided proposals, Congress should be debating comprehensive immigration reform that strengthens border security and commerce, helps workers and businesses grow the economy, and keeps families together. We need more solutions and less partisan politics.”
06.26.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) sharply criticized the Senate Republican healthcare repeal bill after an analysis from the Congressional Budget Office found that it would cause 22 million fewer Americans to have health insurance, including 4 million Americans who would lose employer-sponsored coverage next year. The CBO estimates that under the new bill, a senior making $56,800 in 2026 would pay $20,500 in annual premiums, as compared to $6,800 under current law, an increase of more than 200%. The repeal bill cuts $772 billion in funding for Medicaid over the next decade, a program that covers 183,000 veterans in California and provides long term care for 62% of California seniors living in nursing homes. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “The Senate repeal bill is a tax cut for the wealthiest Americans that would cause tens of millions of Americans to lose their health coverage. If this bill becomes law, millions fewer Americans would have access to plans that cover essential health benefits like maternity care and substance abuse, seniors would see their out-of-pocket costs skyrocket and their options for long-term care dwindle, and those families who can still afford health insurance would pay more for less coverage. “This tax cut bill won’t fix our health care system. It is beyond time for us to start over and work with the doctors, nurses, hospitals, and patients who oppose this plan to come up with a bipartisan bill that makes healthcare more affordable and accessible for all Americans.”
06.22.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) posted an op-ed on the Huffington Post marking the one-year anniversary of the House Democrats’ sit-in protest demanding a vote on gun safety legislation. Rep. Peters was the first to livestream the protest, using the app Periscope to broadcast the House chamber after Speaker Ryan used his power to turn off the cameras and microphones. The livestream was viewed by millions of people across the country and around the world and syndicated on C-SPAN, CNN, and MSNBC. In the op-ed, Rep. Peters describes how Congress has moved backward since then in how it approaches both gun safety and transparency. The op-ed is posted HERE, and can be viewed in its entirety below. One year after the sit-in, you still deserve that seat in the room Rep. Scott Peters It started with a text from one of my staffers. With the cameras that normally show the business of the House of Representatives turned off, why don’t we download Periscope and stream it that way? House Democrats were in the middle of something historic. In the wake of the horrific shooting at an Orlando nightclub, we were following civil rights hero John Lewis and staging a sit-in on the floor of the House of Representatives. The message was simple: let us vote on two bills to bar suspected terrorists from buying guns and expand background checks to cover all firearm purchases. These bipartisan proposals are supported by at least 85% of Americans, including a majority of Republicans, Democrats, and gun owners, but have never received a vote in the House. We were determined to change that. So I downloaded the app right there and began to livestream the sit-in from my phone. Throughout the night, millions of people from around the country and the world would use that broadcast to join us. That was one year ago. The sit-in became a watershed moment not just for the national conversation around curbing gun violence, but also for transparency in Congress. Citizens across the country were brought into the room as their elected representatives shared their anger and heartbreak over Orlando and other incidents of gun violence. It was real; it was visceral; it was important; and it was made possible by this new technology. But in the year since the sit-in, Congress has gone backward. Both in how it tackles gun safety and in how it makes itself more transparent to the people it represents, Congress is moving in the wrong direction. Last week – prior to the tragic shooting that nearly took the lives of my colleagues in Alexandria, Virginia – a House committee was scheduled to consider a bill that would remove silencers from the protections of the National Firearms Act. These safeguards have been successful at preventing criminals from obtaining silencers, and eliminating them would put shooting victims and law enforcement officers at a greater disadvantage. There are two proposals in Congress – one with nearly 200 co-sponsors – that would force all states to recognize concealed carry permits from every other state, even those that have weaker or no standards. Under one of those proposals, residents of states that don’t require any permit would be able to carry a concealed weapon anywhere in the country. I believe we can and should respect cultural differences around firearms. I don’t want to export California’s gun laws to the rest of the country, but I also don’t want to undermine states like California that choose to have strong gun safety laws to protect their communities. A year ago, we fought to close loopholes that allow criminals and domestic abusers to obtain firearms; now we are fighting to stop new loopholes that would make it easier for these same dangerous individuals to carry a concealed weapon in every community in America. It’s not a coincidence that all of this is happening as Congress is becoming less accountable to its constituents. The House passed a healthcare reform bill with no hearings and no bipartisan amendments. Now the Senate is writing one in a back room with no intention of letting doctors, hospitals, or experts weigh in. And earlier this year, my Republican colleagues in the House of Representatives passed rules changes to impose fines on members of Congress who record video or livestream from the floor of the House. After the shooting last week, there have been increased conversations about the rhetoric we use and how it divides us. But bipartisanship is about more than just ending personal insults. It is about acknowledging legitimate policy concerns, and holding an open process that enables a rigorous public debate. Nine in ten Americans want to see stronger background checks on firearm purchases. Given an open debate in a transparent Congress, we win that battle. But we’re not getting an open debate on this issue or many others – and that matters. Whether you support the healthcare repeal proposals or gun safety bills, we can all agree that our government is stronger when more citizens are involved. My 21st century approach may not work for every member of Congress, but that doesn’t mean it should be banned entirely. The more transparent we are, the more Americans can connect with their often too-insular government. And we as elected officials shouldn’t fear that. A year ago, I turned on my livestream because I believed that you deserved a seat in the room. And with all that has changed, that is still the case. Whether we’re talking about curbing gun violence or fixing healthcare, you still deserve that seat in the room. It’s your House, after all.
06.20.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass the Mobile Workforce State Income Tax Simplification Act to make filing taxes easier for entrepreneurs and small businesses that operate across state lines. The bill creates a clearer framework for when states can tax individuals who do work in that state, but don’t reside there. Specifically it prevents states from taxing individuals unless they work in that state for at least 30 days. Currently, states decide for themselves how many days a non-resident must work there before they are subject to that state’s income taxes. California requires any non-resident who works there for more than 45 days to file state income taxes. “Compliance costs hit entrepreneurs and small businesses particularly hard,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “Simplifying the tax code is one way to reduce this burden and allow entrepreneurs to focus more on growing their businesses and creating jobs. This bipartisan bill will make filing state income taxes clearer and simpler for small businesses and entrepreneurs that do work across state lines.”
06.16.2017	Today, U.S. Congressmen Scott Peters (CA-52) and Walter B. Jones (NC-03) announced bipartisan legislation to help reduce the stigma around mental health injuries and encourage more servicemembers and veterans to pursue mental health treatment. The bill designates the month of June as National Post-Traumatic Stress Injury (PTSI) Awareness month and June 27th as National PTSI Awareness Day. It aims to reduce the stigma that comes with labeling post-traumatic stress as a disorder, and instead identifies it as injury stemming from military service that is treatable in the same way as other service-related wounds. “Ask a servicemember about their injuries, and they are likely to show you the visible scars they wear from their service. What they are much more reluctant to tell you about are the mental scars and the less visible injuries they wear on the inside,” said Rep. Scott Peters, a member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee. “This stigma is what prevents many servicemembers and veterans from seeking treatment. It is my hope that dropping the negative connotation of the term ‘disorder’ will help lead to a greater utilization of the mental health care services. When we lose as many as twenty veterans a day to suicide, reducing the stigma around mental health injuries could save lives.” “For over a decade, I have worked to find new treatments and improve therapies for our veterans suffering from post-traumatic stress injuries and traumatic brain injuries,” said Congressman Jones. “After all they’ve done for us, it’s the least we can do for them. By moving this legislation, we can increase awareness of PTSIs and hopefully advance the cause of giving our service members the best mental health care possible.”
06.13.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters’ (CA-52) joined a bipartisan majority to pass the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act to help improve the service and care veterans receive at the VA. The bill will give the Secretary of Veterans Affairs greater authority to remove or discipline poorly-performing and negligent employees. It will also strengthen whistleblower protections that encourage employees to call out careless or criminal behavior. The bill has already passed the Senate, and will now move to the President’s desk for his signature. The passing of this bill means that the House has completed three of its top priorities for supporting our veterans this year in a bipartisan fashion: appeals modernization and reform, extending the Choice program, and now increasing accountability at the VA. Rep. Peters, a member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, spoke in support of the bill during the debate on the House floor. “For everything our veterans have given in service to this country, they have earned their benefits and access to timely, quality health care at the VA,” he said. “And honoring this promise is not only a matter of resources; it also depends on changing the culture at the VA. From the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, to the doctors and nurses, to the administrators who book appointments, it has to be about serving the veteran, not the bureaucracy. By holding bad actors accountable and protecting the hardworking employees who care for our veterans, this bipartisan legislation will improve the service our veterans receive.” Click HERE or above to view Rep. Peters’ full remarks in support of increasing accountability at the VA. Details on the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act: Authorizes the Secretary of the VA to reprimand, suspend, demote, or fire senior executive service employees if the secretary determines their conduct warrants it, subject to a 21 day review process. Authorizes the Secretary of the VA to fire, demote, or suspend for longer than two weeks without pay non-senior employees, subject to a 180 day appeal by the Merit Systems Protection Board. Protects whistleblowers from retaliation by preventing the Secretary of the VA from firing employees who have filed a complaint with the Office of Special Counsel. Requires the VA to frequently train supervisors on the rights of whistleblowers.
06.12.2017	Today, the House of Representatives unanimously passed U.S. Congressman Scott Peters’ (CA-52) Hydropower Permit Extension, or “HYPE” Act, to cut red tape in the construction permitting process for hydropower projects and encourage greater investment in clean energy. The HYPE Act adds a year to preliminary construction permits for hydropower projects, and allows the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to give projects a four-year extension if delays prevent them from breaking ground. Right now, it requires an act of Congress to extend construction permits for hydropower projects, even though they have already undergone a rigorous approval process. Most hydropower projects do not require the full length of the permit to begin construction, but for those that experience delays, the HYPE Act will give them more time and greater certainty. “Producing more base load electricity from hydropower is central to meeting our clean energy goals and reducing harmful emissions that pollute our air and water,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “The HYPE Act will ensure that delayed hydropower projects do not have to rely on an act of Congress to get an extension. By cutting this red tape, the HYPE Act will provide greater certainty for hydropower projects and the communities where they are built, and help incentivize more investment in this source of clean energy.” Rep. Peters continued, “Moving forward, the ultimate solution to unlocking hydropower is to streamline the regulatory process. I hope that we can have productive, bipartisan conversations about how to get hydropower projects approved more quickly while still meeting high environmental standards.” Click HERE or above to view Rep. Peters speak in support of hydropower and his HYPE Act before it was unanimously passed by the House of Representatives.
06.08.2017	Today, U.S. Congressmen Scott Peters (CA-52) voted against the Financial CHOICE Act, a bill containing many provisions that would gut Wall Street reforms and consumer protections put in place under the Dodd-Frank Act after the 2008 financial crisis. The bill eliminates the independence of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which was set up to protect Americans from abusive financial practices and has helped nearly 29 million consumers. It also weakens critical safeguards, such as stress tests, that were put in place after the 2008 financial crisis to help prevent the collapse of large financial institutions. In previous years, Rep. Peters has voted against many members of his own party to support fixes to Dodd-Frank to expand access to capital for small businesses. “While America was focused on the Comey testimony – which is serious in its own right – Congress took a dangerous step towards undoing the protections put in place to prevent another financial crisis,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “Dodd-Frank isn’t perfect, but it includes many important provisions to protect our banking system from a meltdown and ensure that American families don’t pay the price for predatory and abusive practices. Instead of throwing these protections out and risking another financial crisis, Congress should be making targeted, bipartisan fixes to cut red tape while making more capital available to entrepreneurs and small businesses.”
06.08.2017	Today, U.S. Congressmen Scott Peters (CA-52) and Carlos Curbelo (FL-26) introduced the bipartisan Super Pollutant Emissions Reduction, or SUPER Act, to combat the emission of short-lived climate pollutants, benefit public health, and repair American climate leadership. Super pollutants include black carbon, hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), and methane. They cause about 25 to 2,000 times more warming per ton over a 25 to 100 year period than carbon dioxide, making them among the most significant drivers of climate change. The SUPER Act would establish a federal task force to coordinate and optimize existing efforts at various levels of government to reduce super pollutant emissions. According to the Institute for Governance and Sustainable Development, cutting short lived climate pollutants can avoid up to 0.6°C of warming at mid-century, compared to 0.1°C of avoided warming from aggressive cuts to CO2. “One week after President Trump pulled the U.S. out of the Paris Climate Agreement, this demonstrates the growing bipartisan will in Congress to act on climate,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “Super pollutants are the low-hanging fruit in the fight to slow climate change. Existing technologies have been proven effective at reducing these potent gases. By coordinating efforts across multiple levels of government, the SUPER Act would help make the U.S. federal government a leader in reducing these pollutants and keeping our air and water clean. Thank you to Rep. Curbelo for being a partner on this, and I look forward to continue working together on pro-growth climate solutions.” Reps. Peters and Curbelo are both members of the bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus. The SUPER Act’s original co-sponsors also include Rep. Mike Coffman (CO-06), Rep. Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Rep. John Delaney (MD-06), Rep. Daniel Lipinski (IL-03), and Rep. Alan Lowenthal (CA-47). "While the focus is always on carbon, we need a full picture of all emissions that diminish our ozone, impact our climate, and accelerate sea level rise,” Rep. Curbelo said. “This Task Force would be a significant first step to ensuring that our nation has all the information needed to accurately protect our environment from these pollutants.” In San Diego, methane capture technologies at Miramar Landfill generate electricity and partially meet the energy demands of Marine Corps Air Station Miramar. San Diego’s Point Loma Wastewater Treatment Plan captures methane to produce energy that makes them energy self-sufficient. According to the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, reducing global emissions of short-lived climate pollutants can quickly cut the rate of global temperature rise in half by 2050, when combined with reductions of global emissions of carbon dioxide. “Climate change is an urgent problem requiring urgent solutions. The SUPER Act, targeting super pollutants with short life times, is exactly the sort of urgent action we need to limit climate change within decades; and thus protect the poor and the vulnerable from storms, droughts and heat waves,” said Dr. Veerabhadran Ramanathan, Distinguished Professor, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California at San Diego. “It also will reduce harmful exposure to air pollution for all Americans. If enacted globally, it can cut the rate of warming by half before 2050, save over 2 millions of lives lost to air pollution and save as much as 50 millions tons of crops destroyed by ozone exposure. The SUPER Act, along with the Paris agreement will pave the way for stabilizing climate change in our life time.” “Cutting these super pollutants is a critical step in making the planet great again,” said Durwood Zaelke, President of the Institute for Governance & Sustainable Development. “The SUPER Act introduced today by Congressman Peters shows how to slam on the breaks to slow near-term warming and will inspire action on campuses, in corporations, in cities and states, and around the world.”
06.07.2017	Bipartisan legislation that advanced through the Energy and Commerce Committee today included amendments regarding patient safety that were offered by Rep. Scott Peters (D-CA) and Rep. Ryan Costello (R-PA). The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Reauthorization Act builds on years of work that aims to develop treatments, lower drugs costs, and prioritize patient safety. An essential part of the legislation allows the FDA to collect user fees from pharmaceutical companies in order to advance its important mission. Since the first pharmaceutical drug user fee agreement was passed in 1992, these agreements have taken proven steps to expedite drug development and maintain patient-safety. “Passing this FDA reauthorization through the committee is an important step to support job creation in my district in San Diego and in local economies across the country. These user fee agreements will help accelerate approvals for devices and drugs that are improving and saving lives every day,” said Rep. Peters. “This bill also includes important provisions to accelerate the reviews for generic drugs that have no competition, and move the medical device industry to a risk-based inspection model that will provide manufacturers with greater certainty. I thank my colleague Rep. Costello for working with me to add our amendments that put patient safety and patient health first, and look forward to continuing to work in a bipartisan manner to reauthorize the FDA and give our innovators the certainty they need.” “With the passage of the FDA Reauthorization Act through the Energy and Commerce Committee today, we are one step closer to helping to ensure the timely delivery of innovative treatments that can positively impact patients’ lives,” said Rep. Costello. “This legislation is also critical to our local economy in Pennsylvania, as it will make sure our businesses remain competitive and keep up with emerging public health needs. Thank you to Rep. Peters for working with me on offering amendments that prioritize patient safety.” Rep. Peters’ amendment, based on Peters and Costello’s Fostering Innovation in Medical Imaging Act, will make groundbreaking imaging procedures available to patients more quickly and support innovation and job creation in medical imaging. The amendment creates a clear FDA regulatory pathway for new cutting-edge procedures that use already-approved contrast agents – or drugs that are injected to improve medical imaging – in new ways. The current regulatory process requires contrast agents to be re-approved for use in new body parts, delaying the approval of innovative medical imaging procedures that can better diagnose patients. “This amendment will make cutting-edge medical imaging procedures available to patients more quickly and support innovation in the medical imaging arena, which creates high-paying jobs and grows the economy in places like my district in San Diego,” said Rep. Peters. The amendments offered by Reps. Costello and Peters focused on the safety of medical devices and diagnostic imaging technology. Based on Peters and Costello’s Medical Device Servicing Safety and Accountability Act, Rep. Costello offered an amendment that was the result of a bipartisan dialogue focused on addressing concerns about the quality, safety, and efficacy of medical devices that have been subject to repairs, refurbishing, and reconditioning by third-parties. This amendment would require the FDA to report back to the Energy and Commerce Committee outlining the feedback it has received over the past year-and-a-half, as well as details on the steps that the FDA believes the Committee should take in order to protect the public health and ensure that medical devices, which have undergone service, maintenance, and refurbishing, maintain the same high standards of quality, as initially certified by the FDA. “Improperly-serviced medical devices can lead to malfunctions that could cause a misdiagnosis or a missed diagnosis, which could cause care to be delayed, or worse, lead to severe patient injury or death,” Rep. Costello said during the Energy and Commerce Committee markup. “Simply put, this amendment sets forth a plan of action for the FDA to complete its work on this issue and outline what must be done in order to ensure the quality, safety, and continued effectiveness of medical devices.” The amendment would not impose any new requirements on third-party servicers, but continues the fact-finding effort the FDA began in early 2016.
06.07.2017	Today, the House Energy and Commerce Committee unanimously passed U.S. Congressman Scott Peters’ (CA-52) Hydropower Permit Extension, or “HYPE” Act, to cut red tape in the construction permitting process for hydropower projects and incentivize greater investment in carbon-free hydropower. The HYPE Act will now move on to be considered by the full House of Representatives. “Hydropower is a source of carbon-free, baseload electricity that can help us reduce pollution and meet our clean energy goals,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “The HYPE Act would ensure more approved hydropower projects get built, providing greater certainty and encouraging more investment in clean energy. I appreciate the bipartisan support to pass it through committee, and will continue working to get it passed by the House of Representatives and signed into law.” Today, the Energy & Commerce Committee also considered a number of bills that involve extending the construction permit for specific hydropower projects. If the HYPE Act were to become law, Congress would spend far less time debating bills that simply extend construction permits. The HYPE Act gives already-approved hydropower projects an extra year on their initial permit to begin construction. It also grants the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission the authority to give hydropower projects a four-year extension if delays prevent them from beginning construction during the initial permit. Most hydropower projects do not require the full length of the permit to begin construction, but for those that experience delays, this bill will give them more time and greater certainty. Right now, it requires an act of Congress to extend construction permits for hydropower projects, even though these projects have already undergone rigorous approval processes.
06.01.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) slammed President Trump’s decision to pull the United States out of the Paris Climate Agreement. Rep. Peters – a former environmental lawyer – was selected to attend the Paris negotiations, is a member of the bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus, serves on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and recently laid out his argument for President Trump to uphold the Paris Agreement. Rep. Peters issued the following statement: “Exiting the Paris Agreement is bad for the planet and for American standing, leverage, and jobs. It is morally wrong and monumentally stupid. “This decision cedes energy and job creation to other nations – especially China – which is already winding down coal plants and investing more than any other country in renewable energy. President Trump is sending the jobs and opportunities of the future for our children to other nations and positioning America to get left behind. “Leaving the Paris Agreement, as with the President’s actions on trade and diplomacy, is a stunning abrogation of America’s decades-long world leadership. “More than anything, this is a dereliction of our duty to leave our children a healthy and inhabitable earth with clean air and clean water.”
05.31.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) responded to reports that President Trump has decided to pull the United States out of the Paris Climate Agreement. Rep. Peters – a former environmental lawyer – was selected to attend the Paris negotiations, is a member of the bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus, serves on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and recently laid out his argument for President Trump to uphold the Paris Agreement. Rep. Peters issued the following statement: “Pulling out of the Paris Climate Agreement puts politics before cleaner air, cleaner water, a stronger economy, and the chance at a healthy planet for our children. “This disastrous decision would cede American leadership at the very time when we should be in the driver’s seat leading the clean energy revolution to reduce air and water pollution. President Trump is sending a clear signal to the rest of the world that they should look to China and others for energy innovation, not the United States. “My mission in public service is to make a difference in protecting our planet, and this shortsighted decision is wrong and does not put America first; in fact it does the opposite. I sincerely hope that President Trump reconsiders and listens to the military, the private sector, our brightest minds, and nearly every other nation in the world that sees climate change as an urgent threat to our security and our economy. “But a vacuum of leadership in Washington has never stopped San Diego and California from forging ahead to keep our air and water clean and do more than our part in reducing pollution. Now, more than ever, we must be bold and decisive in pursuing the clean energy future that our children deserve.”
05.25.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) introduced the Federal Student Loan Refinancing Act to reduce the burden of student loan debt on college graduates and their families and grow the economy. The bill would direct the Secretary of Education to lower interest rates on all federal student loans to 4%. It would also allow Americans with multiple federal student loans to consolidate them into one package and refinance to pay either the average of the loan interest rates or 4%, whichever is lower. “I wouldn’t have been able to afford college without the help of work-study programs and low-interest federal student loans,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “Today, it is getting harder for qualified students to afford the higher education they need to compete in a brain-powered economy. As a result, millions of Americans are burdened with student debt that influences their career choices and forces them to put off decisions like buying a home, starting a family, or saving for retirement.” Adjusted for inflation, the cost of a four-year college education is two and a half times as much as it was 35 years ago. The average borrower from the Class of 2016 graduated with more than $37,000 in student loan debt. Rep. Peters continued, “This bill would lower monthly payments for millions of graduates and their families, save them thousands of dollars over the length of their student loans, and help alleviate the massive burden of student debt on our economy. By making college more affordable and more accessible for students from every zip code, we can expand opportunities for the next generation” Today, 44 million Americans hold a total of $1.44 trillion in student loan debt. In California, according to the Institute for College Access and Success, borrowers owe an average of $22,191 in student loans. The Federal Student Loan Refinancing Act has 19 original co-sponsors.
05.24.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) criticized the Republican healthcare repeal bill after an updated analysis from the Congressional Budget Office showed that it would leave 23 million more Americans without coverage and be paid for on the backs of working families, seniors, and veterans. Between 2013 and 2015, 429,000 veterans gained health insurance coverage under the Affordable Care Act, reducing the rate of uninsured veterans by 40%. About 340,000 of these veterans are covered under the Medicaid expansion and would be at risk of losing their coverage under the Republican repeal bill. 183,000 veterans in California alone are covered under Medicaid, and could be effected by the bill’s proposed $880 billion cut to federal Medicaid spending. In their current form, the tax credits in the plan would be unusable for a number of veterans who qualify for care through the VA. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “The Republican healthcare repeal bill puts a huge burden on the backs of working families and seniors to pave the way for a tax cut for the wealthiest Americans. Instead of fixing what isn’t working in our healthcare system, this bill would make it worse: destabilizing insurance markets in some parts of the country, putting health insurance out of the reach of many Americans with pre-existing conditions, and even weakening employer-based plans in states that waive essential health benefits. “In San Diego, this bill would be particularly hard on our veterans. The drastic cuts to Medicaid would rip the rug out from under thousands of veterans and their families who depend on the program for healthcare. Many veterans aren’t even eligible for the tax credits in this plan, which would make it more difficult for them to afford coverage. Our veterans have earned better than this. “When you have a healthcare plan that would lead to 23 million fewer Americans having health insurance, is opposed by hospitals, doctors, and nurses, and throws our seniors, veterans, and working families out in the cold, it’s pretty clear that you need to go back to the drawing board. I’m ready to get to work with everyone – Republicans and Democrats – on a real plan to fix our healthcare system.”
05.23.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass a bill that will modernize and improve the process for veterans who are appealing decisions about their VA benefits. Veterans file these appeals when they believe they are not receiving the benefits they have earned based on service-connected and non-service-connected claims. According to the VA, there are more than 368,000 veterans waiting to have their appeals resolved. Right now these cases typically take three or more years to fully complete, with some lasting as long as eight years. By increasing accountability and creating three new methods that veterans can use to file their appeals depending on their circumstances, this bill will streamline the process and help veterans get answers more quickly. Rep. Peters is an original co-sponsor of the bill, urged his colleagues to support it at a hearing earlier this month, and voted to advance it out of the House Veterans Affairs Committee last week. Today, Rep. Peters also helped pass the Veterans Compensation Cost of Living Adjustment Act, which increases payments for veterans benefits this year by the same percentage as social security payments to keep up with the cost of living. “It’s outrageous that we have so many veterans who are waiting just for answers on which benefits they are eligible to receive. My office helps countless San Diego veterans who are having issues getting their appeals reviewed expeditiously – and we always will – but it shouldn’t take congressional intervention to get them the answers they deserve,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “By modernizing the process, these bipartisan reforms should expedite answers for new appeals, reduce the backlog, and ensure that our veterans receive the attention and benefits they have earned in service to our country.” Click here or above to hear Rep. Peters tell the story of a San Diego veteran his office helped with an appeal and urge his Veterans Committee colleagues to support this appeals reform bill. The Veterans Appeals Improvement and Modernization Act is the product of collaboration between Congress, the VA, and veterans service organizations. It updates the current appeals systems by increasing accountability and oversight and restructuring the way that appeals are adjudicated. Depending on the circumstances of their case, veterans will be able to choose one of three types of reviews for their claims: A high level new review for veterans who want to have a fresh set of well-trained eyes review their cases An opportunity to add evidence to their claim without review of original submission; and A full review done by the Board, either with new evidence or as an expedited review without new supporting documents.
05.23.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) slammed President Trump’s federal budget proposal, which would hurt San Diego’s economy and put a larger burden on working families. The budget proposes deep cuts to clean air and clean water protections, scientific research funding through the NIH and NOAA, affordable housing programs, and infrastructure investments – including the elimination of grants to improve sewage infrastructure along the U.S.-Mexico border. It would also hit working families by reducing eligibility for the Earned Income Tax Credit, gutting Medicaid by almost half over the next decade, and cutting resources for the Children’s Health Insurance Program. Rep. Peters released the following statement on President Trump’s budget proposal: “The economic opportunities of the next generation in America depend on keeping our lead in science and technology and embracing the clean energy revolution. “President Trump’s budget makes it clear he knows how to make reckless cuts in order to pay for big tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans, but not how to invest in priorities that strengthen America and create good-paying jobs. “President Trump wants to take a meat axe to medical and energy research funding and leave our researchers in San Diego with fewer resources to innovate and create the jobs of the future. President Trump is proposing to gut programs from Medicaid to housing assistance that give working families the opportunity for them and their children to succeed. “Even with the boost in defense spending – which I support – this budget is a bad deal for San Diego. Congress has the power of the purse, and I will work to reject these cuts, but this proposal is a pretty clear indication of who President Trump stands with, and who he doesn’t.” Rep. Peters continued by commenting on how Trump’s proposal to eliminate funding for infrastructure improvements along the U.S.-Mexico border would lead to more sewage spills, “San Diego’s congressional delegation – Republicans and Democrats – has urged the Trump administration to make these sewage spills a priority and provide resources and oversight. Clearly they are not listening. Our region needs these infrastructure investments to help prevent sewage spills that threaten our economy and our way of life, and I am going to fight to defend them from President Trump’s cuts.”
05.19.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) introduced the bipartisan Building Opportunity for Student Startups, or “BOSS” Act, to better understand the role that incubators and accelerators at universities play in encouraging entrepreneurship, commercializing federally-funded research, and growing regional economies. The National Academy of Sciences would report to Congress within a year to compare outcomes and identify best practices from leading university incubators around the country. This would provide Congress with the information it needs to better support incubators and student entrepreneurship. “Students in San Diego and across the country are taking advantage of the resources on college campuses to innovate and create products,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “The growth of student entrepreneurship has tremendous potential to expand economic opportunity for the next generation and create jobs. The BOSS Act will give Congress a better understanding of how successful incubators at universities help these student entrepreneurs create and market their products. This is an important first step towards providing more support for incubators that attract talent and resources to public universities and capitalize on the investment that the federal government is already making.” The bill’s cosponsors are Rep. Steve Chabot (OH-01), Chairman of the House Committee on Small Business, and Rep. Eric Swalwell (CA-15), who chairs the Future Forum and visited UC San Diego’s Qualcomm Institute with Rep. Peters in 2015. “There's no better place than America's colleges to prepare the next generation of entrepreneurs. It's how we create more jobs. Incubators and accelerators that spur innovation, foster entrepreneurship, and create new technologies are popping up at colleges and universities across the nation,” said Swalwell. “Unfortunately, students today are less likely than previous generations to start their own business. This legislation will help us understand the value of incubators and accelerators so that we can better equip them to bring in more bright minds that will create the startups of our future.”
05.17.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) sent a letter to every Republican member of the House of Representatives making the case for them to support an independent commission to investigate Russian influence in the election and over the White House. Rep. Peters specifically urged his Republican colleagues to co-sponsor the Protecting Our Democracy Act, which would create a bipartisan commission to investigate Russian interference and related issues free from partisan and jurisdictional barriers. He also called on his colleagues to sign the discharge petition that, if signed by a majority of House members, would force a vote on the bill. This letter comes in the days after media reports have alleged that President Trump gave classified intelligence to the Russians in the Oval Office and directly intervened to ask then-Director Comey to halt the F.B.I.’s Russia investigation. “The first rule of politics is that you have to ask for everyone’s vote. I thank my Republican colleagues who have already stood up to support an independent commission, and this letter is my invitation for others to join as well,” Rep. Peters said. “Every member of Congress – Republicans and Democrats – should stand shoulder to shoulder and say that we want all of the answers on Russian influence in our government and whether the President has obstructed justice. There should be nothing partisan about seeking justice and the answers that America deserves.” The text of the letter can be read HERE or in full below: [BEGIN TEXT] Dear MEMBER, I write to you today not as a Democrat, but as a peer and as an American. Recent events and revelations have made clear the need for impartiality as we struggle to unearth the facts surrounding Russia’s assault on our democracy and on our institutions. The safety, security, and integrity of our nation is our most sacred responsibility and we are now being called to exercise our power to restore trust in our government. The facts we have been presented with are cause enough for each one of us to demand a thorough, impartial, independent investigation into Russia’s attempts to influence our elections and its attempts to exert influence and control over decision making in the White House. In the midst of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s investigation into the connections between the President, his organization, his surrogates, and Russia, the President’s National Security Advisor resigned, the Attorney General of the United States recused himself, and the F.B.I Director was fired by the President of the United States because, at least in part, Director Comey was committed to completing the investigation. Most recently, there are public allegations that the President, prior to making the decision to relieve him of his post, said to Comey, “I hope you can let this go.” Given the apparent connections between individuals within the Administration and Russia, and the President’s own reticence toward the FBI’s pursuit of answers, it should be clear to all of us that the establishment of an independent commission to carry out this investigation has never been more critical. Supporting an independent commission at this time goes beyond politics. At minimum, the establishment of an independent commission that is free of influence by the President and his surrogates will help restore public trust and Congressional confidence in the investigation. The legitimacy of this investigation—whatever the outcome—depends entirely on the impartiality of its investigators. For that reason, I urge you to co-sponsor H.R. 356, the Protecting our Democracy Act, and to sign the discharge petition to bring this bill up for an immediate vote by the House. History is judging each and every one of us on our faithful execution of the oath we took to support and defend the Constitution. We are compelled to uphold Congress’ role as a co-equal branch of government and a check on the power and a source of accountability of the executive. Now is the time for courage. We must stand shoulder to shoulder, put aside considerations of party politics, and get the answers that all of us, as Americans, deserve. Sincerely, Scott Peters Member of Congress [END TEXT]
05.17.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued the following statement on reports that President Trump urged then-F.B.I. Director James Comey to halt the investigation into the President and his associate’s ties to Russia: “The need for a bipartisan defense of our democracy and our institutions is growing more urgent by the day. “Yesterday morning, in response to reports that President Trump gave classified intelligence information to the Russians, I called on Republicans to put country first and work with us to get answers. With these new allegations that the President directly intervened to block the investigation into him and his associates, I am renewing that call. “It’s time to work together and establish an independent commission to investigate the ties between President Trump and Russia, and to determine whether he has obstructed justice. These are very serious allegations, and we cannot allow them to be politicized any longer.”
05.16.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after President Trump confirmed the Washington Post’s story that he gave classified intelligence to Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and Russian Ambassador to the United States Sergey Kislyak during their closed meeting in the Oval Office last week: “It is well beyond time for Republicans to put country before party and hold this President accountable. “America’s smart, tough national security strategy depends on our brave intelligence officers – in cooperation with our allies – gathering information that can be used to defeat our enemies abroad and prevent attacks at home. Through utter and reckless incompetence, President Trump has undermined that strategy and put American servicemembers and American security at risk. “This is a grave mistake that weakens us and could cause a crisis of confidence among our allies that will have ramifications far beyond when President Trump leaves office. “From the beginning, I said I was willing to work with President Trump on shared priorities, but this crosses every line. All members of Congress – Republicans and Democrats – should be standing shoulder to shoulder as patriots to demand answers from President Trump so that we can contain the damage and help keep Americans safe. Anything less is a dangerous failure of Congress to faithfully execute its role as a check on the power of the President as the founders intended.”
05.16.2017	SAN DIEGO – Rep. Scott Peters (CA-52) will join Miramar National Cemetery and the Miramar Cemetery Support Foundation, at an open house to raise awareness of the cemetery and the burial options available to veterans, servicemembers, and eligible family members. Miramar National Cemetery is the newest VA cemetery in the western United States and this open house will show veterans in our community how they can use their VA benefits to access cemetery services. With Fort Rosecrans National Cemetery at capacity for new internments, Miramar Cemetery site offers a full range of burial alternatives for San Diego veterans and their families. Rep. Peters, cemetery staff, and volunteers will provide information on VA burial benefits for veterans and their families; burial options available at Miramar; eligibility determinations; and military funeral honors. Visitors can also tour the cemetery grounds. The event is free and open to the public – no registration is required. WHO: Congressman Scott Peters Miramar National Cemetery Support Foundation WHAT: Open house to raise awareness of burial options, funeral honors, application process and provide tour of cemetery grounds WHEN: Saturday, May 20, 2017, 10:00 am PST WHERE: Miramar National Cemetery 5795 Nobel Drive San Diego, CA 92112
05.09.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s firing of F.B.I. Director James Comey: “Firing law enforcement officers who may be investigating you or your associates and then appointing their replacements is something that happens in dictatorships – not in the United States of America. This move from the President is breathtaking in its brazen disregard for the independence of our justice system. Republican members of Congress who fail to stand up against this are complicit in this assault on our democracy. “The founding fathers made Congress a check on the power of the Presidency. That check only functions when it is used without regard for political party. Congress – Democrats and Republicans – must stand up in a bipartisan defense of our institutions and insist that a special prosecutor be appointed before confirming a new director. “Never before has it been clearer that the integrity of our democracy depends on an independent commission to investigate Russian interference in our election and a special prosecutor at the Department of Justice to follow an investigation to wherever – and whomever – it leads. Anyone who stands in the way of an independent investigation denies the American people the answers they deserve.”
05.04.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted against the Republican Healthcare repeal bill that would dismantle many of the protections of the Affordable Care Act, gut funding for Medicaid and Planned Parenthood, raise out-of-pocket costs for seniors and working families, and lead to 24 million fewer Americans having health insurance. The bill passed on a strictly partisan 217-213 vote. After the vote, Rep. Peters released the following statement: “This vote takes us one step closer to going back to a system where families go bankrupt over an unexpected illness and our emergency rooms are filled with mothers seeking basic care for their children. “I’ve opposed this reckless healthcare repeal bill every step of the way because it will rip coverage away from millions of Americans, increase out-of-pocket costs for working families and seniors, and undermine protections for many Americans with pre-existing conditions. “There are real steps we can take together to fix what’s not working in our healthcare system. Instead, today the House passed a bill that is opposed by doctors, nurses, hospitals, patients, and seniors because it would make the problems in our healthcare system worse, not better. “But this is not over. I will keep fighting to stop this terrible plan from becoming law and get to work on real healthcare reform to make healthcare more affordable and accessible for American families.” Click here or above to see Rep. Peters speak during today’s debate over the Republican healthcare bill. The uninsured rate in San Diego County dropped from 17% to 10% between 2013 and 2015, when the coverage provisions of the Affordable Care Act were implemented. The rate in Rep. Peters’ district dropped from 9.4% to just 5.4%. The 250,000 San Diegans who gained coverage under the expansion of Medi-Cal would have been at risk of losing their health insurance under the Republican repeal plan. The Brookings Institution has estimated that the average premium for comprehensive health insurance plans that cover essential benefits like prescription drugs, hospitalization, and pregnancy will rise 13% under the Republican healthcare plan. The Kaiser Family Foundation has estimated that a senior living in San Diego County in 2020 with an income of $50,000 per year would have to pay $3,280 more annually in premiums under the Republican healthcare plan. Summary of Rep. Peters’ actions on healthcare since the Republican repeal bill was introduced: Participated in a marathon 27 hour meeting on the Republican healthcare repeal bill and voted against advancing it out of the Energy and Commerce Committee. During that meeting he urged fiscal responsibility and bipartisanship, and shared the story of a San Diego family who benefitted from coverage gained under the Affordable Care Act. View Rep. Peters’ remarks here, here, and here. Spoke out against the Congressional Republican’s healthcare repeal bill in an interview with CNN's Wolf Blitzer. Sent a letter signed by 95 of his colleagues demanding that Speaker Ryan give the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) time to “score” the substantive changes to the Republican healthcare repeal bill before scheduling it for a vote in the House. Spoke directly to a number of his Republican colleagues that were on the fence, urging them to oppose the bill and instead work together on real healthcare reforms. Participated in the debate on the House floor in March, helping to stop the bill from getting a vote. Took part in the debate on the House floor today, urging his colleagues to vote no.
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted to pass a bipartisan federal spending package that invests in San Diego priorities, including a $15 billion increase in defense spending and a $2 billion boost for basic scientific research through the National Institutes of Health. The bill, which appropriates federal spending for the remainder of the 2017 fiscal year, does not include funding for President Trump’s border wall or bar Planned Parenthood from receiving federal funds for providing healthcare services. The Consolidated Appropriations Act passed on a 309-118 vote and will now move to the Senate where it is expected to be passed and sent to the president for his signature. “This is a good deal for San Diego,” Rep. Peters said. “A fifth of our region’s economy comes from defense, and San Diego is one of the top recipients of NIH research grants. Today we are making unprecedented federal investments in both of these areas to strengthen national security, fuel life-changing discovery, and create more high-paying jobs. This bill also boosts federal homelessness assistance, a longtime priority of mine, and gives our servicemembers a much-deserved raise. And we did this all without caving in to President Trump’s reckless demands to build a border wall and defund Planned Parenthood. That is a clear signal that we are ready to invest in our country’s future rather than allow him to enact his extreme agenda.” Rep. Peters continued by highlighting how resources directed towards military maintenance and readiness would enhance national security, “A smart, strong national security strategy depends on fielding the most advanced military in the world. That means ensuring our jets are ready to fly, our ships are ready to sail, and our servicemembers have the equipment they need. Sixteen years of war and inadequate support from Congress have eroded military readiness to dangerous levels. These extra resources we provided today will help address maintenance and readiness shortfalls as we work towards a long-term solution that gives our warfighters the tools and technology they need to carry out their missions and keep us safe.” Highlights from the FY17 Omnibus Spending Bill: Invests in Science and Innovation Invests $34.1 billion in basic scientific research through the NIH, a $2 billion increase over last year and $3.2 billion more than President Trump wanted. This matches the levels authorized in the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act that Rep. Peters helped pass last year. Increases funding for Alzheimer’s research by $400 million to $1.39 billion, the highest level that the federal government has ever funded. In March, Rep. Peters spoke on the House floor about how federally-funded research on Alzheimer’s can improve lives and reduce healthcare costs. Adds $8.7 million for the National Science Foundation, for a total of $7.47 billion to support non-medical research in science and engineering. Strengthens our military: Increases defense spending by $15 billion, with more than $10 billion directed to increase readiness. Maintains a provision that Rep. Peters fought for to give the military flexibility to diversify its fuel supply and enhance its energy security. Rejects President Trump’s Extreme Agenda Includes NO funds to build President Trump’s proposed border wall. Last week, Rep. Peters joined a bipartisan call for Congress to reject President Trump’s request for border wall funding in the omnibus spending bil. Protects funding for Planned Parenthood. Expands Educational Opportunity Reinstates year-round Pell Grants for college tuition, which is estimated to provide one million students an additional Pell grant of, on average, $1,650. This has been a longtime priority of Rep. Peters, who helped introduce a bill to make this change last month. Increases Impact Aid for schools with military families by $23 million for a total of $1.3 billion. Addresses Homelessness Allocates $133 million more for Homeless Assistance Grants for a total $2.4 billion. These grants include those allocated through the Continuum of Care program that Rep. Peters has been working to reform to get San Diego its fair share of federal homelessness resources. Gives $40 million for new HUD-VASH vouchers to house homeless veterans. Rebuilds Infrastructure & Protects the Environment Provides $10 million to continue improving water and sewage infrastructure along the U.S.-Mexico Border, which Rep. Peters has identified as a priority to help prevent future sewage spills. Provides $30 million for the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act program, which can be leveraged for a total of more than $3 billion in low-cost, long-term loans. This is a top priority for the City of San Diego to support its Pure Water Program. Gives SANDAG the next $50 million installment on its grant to continue work on the Mid-Coast Trolley. Protects funding for the Environmental Protection Agency, including $1.4 billion for the Clean Water State Revolving Fund and $863 million for the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund to ensure that communities can provide clean water.
05.02.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced the Hydropower Permit Extension, or “HYPE” Act, to cut red tape in the construction permitting process for hydropower projects and incentivize greater investment in carbon-free hydropower. The bill gives already-approved hydropower projects an extra year on their initial permit to begin construction. It also grants the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission the authority to give hydropower projects a four-year extension if delays prevent them from beginning construction during the initial permit. Most hydropower projects do not require the full length of the permit to begin construction, but for those that experience delays, this bill will give them a larger window. Right now, it requires an act of Congress to extend construction permits for hydropower projects, even though these projects have already undergone rigorous approval processes. “Hydropower is one of the few carbon-free energy sources that provides a steady base load of electricity. Producing more electricity from hydropower is central to meeting our clean energy goals and reducing harmful emissions that pollute our air and water and contribute to climate change,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “The ultimate solution to unlocking hydropower is to streamline the regulatory process so that projects can be approved more quickly while still meeting high environmental standards. But in the meantime, this bill will ensure that more of the hydropower projects that are approved get built.” Rep. Peters continued, “For projects that are delayed and unable to break ground under their first permit, this bill will give them the certainty that they will not need to rely on Congress to get an extension. Making them start from scratch because of a delay doesn’t help the communities that want the clean power or the firms that have already made an investment to secure the permit in the first place. This commonsense fix will improve flexibility to incentivize greater investment in hydropower as we move towards a clean energy future.” The HYPE Act lengthens preliminary construction permits for hydropower projects from three years to four years. It also lengthens from two years to four years the extension that FERC can grant to projects that experience delays. Overall, this lengthens from five years to eight years the total preliminary construction permit for hydropower projects that have been approved for construction.
05.01.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued the following statement on the shooting last night at the La Jolla Crossroads apartment complex: “I extend my deepest condolences to the family and loved ones of the victim who lost her life last night in this senseless act of violence. I am praying for peace for her family, and for the full and speedy recovery of the others who were injured. “It’s especially awful to think that such a brutal attack can happen at a birthday party in the heart of our community. This is a tragic reminder that even a city as prosperous and peaceful as San Diego is not immune to senseless acts of violence such as this. “The true spirit of San Diego is reflected not in this attack, but in what followed: brave police officers and first responders swiftly confronting danger to prevent further tragedy, friends and neighbors coming to each other’s aid. That is the San Diego that I know and love.”
04.26.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued the following statement on the report that President Trump is readying an executive order to begin the process of withdrawing the United States from the North American Free Trade Agreement: “President Trump’s plan to pull the United States out of NAFTA would rip the rug out from underneath our economy and devastate small business owners, workers, and families in San Diego and across the country. It would create new barriers that make it harder to sell American-made products and crops to our two largest customers. And it would raise the prices that working families pay for everything from cars to groceries. “All but ten states in the U.S. count on Mexico or Canada as their largest export markets. In San Diego, they are our two top customers, with $5.5 billion in annual exports to Mexico alone. San Diego’s economy has benefitted greatly from being a center for international trade and it has made our binational region a more attractive place to start a business and manufacture products. Pulling out of NAFTA could hurt this ecosystem and the 120,000 San Diegans whose jobs depend on trade. “NAFTA isn’t perfect. It makes sense to prioritize raising enforceable environmental and labor standards through trade agreements to further level the playing field for American workers. That is a much more sensible path than scrapping the deal altogether, and one that I hope President Trump pursues. “I strongly urge President Trump to not cede America’s leadership, but rather work with both parties to renegotiate NAFTA to create more jobs for American workers in our increasingly competitive and changing economy.”
04.25.2017	This week, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) joined forty bipartisan lawmakers calling on Congress to come together on a spending bill to keep the government open before funding expires on Friday night. The lawmakers are members of the Problem Solvers Caucus, and are urging Congressional leaders to dismiss the last-minute demands by President Trump to attack the Affordable Care Act and include funding for his border wall as part of the spending bill. Instead they want Congress to put partisan battles aside and keep the government open. Rep. Peters has been one of the most vocal opponents of President Trump’s border wall. “The border wall is a bad idea and a waste of money. There are much more efficient ways to secure the border without damaging trade and border communities,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “Congress has been working for months on a bipartisan agreement to fund the government and make investments that create jobs and keep America safe. This last minute attempt to hamstring these negotiations to President Trump’s border wall is a good way to go backwards and risk shutting down the government. Republicans control every branch of elected government. It is up to them to push back against President Trump’s reckless demands and ensure that Congress meets its most basic responsibility to keep the government open.”
04.12.2017	San Diego– Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced the opening of an art exhibit in ARTS DISTRICT Liberty Station featuring the entries from the 2017 Congressional Art Competition, a nationwide contest sponsored by the Congressional Institute and hosted by Members of Congress each spring. The Congressional Art Competition, which began in 1982, takes place each year across the country. Participation has quadrupled since Rep. Peters began the competition in the 52nd district in 2013. This year, students across San Diego submitted a record 61 entries, including paintings, drawings, collage, prints, mixed media, computer-generated art, and photography. “Every year, I look forward to showcasing the artistic talents of high school students through the Congressional Art Competition,” said Rep. Peters. “San Diego is home to museums and public art that define the cultural fabric of our city and add character to our shared spaces. This exhibit is the perfect way to celebrate the talent and creativity of the next generation of local artists, and foster a lifelong love of the arts.” The exhibit is hosted by the San Diego Water Color Society and Arts District Liberty Station, two long-standing partners in San Diego’s arts and culture scene. “SDWS is pleased to be able to host the ‘52nd Congressional District Art Competition Exhibition,’ where young people can show us their art, and see what their peers have done in the same format,” said Ralph Kingery, President of The San Diego Watercolor Society. “This show implements our continuing mission in art education. We want to see what they have done, and we hope that they will take the opportunity to view the art that SDWS members have created and are showing in the adjacent gallery. “ARTS DISTRICT Liberty Station is proud to be the home for this prestigious contest that recognizes and encourages artistic talent in students,” said Lori Fleet-Martin, NTC Foundation Board Chair. “Since our transformation from Navy Base to Arts District, we continue to serve San Diego by inspiring, educating, and training young people in the arts. We’d like to thank Congressman Scott Peters for helping shine a spotlight on the talented young artists in our district. I’d also like to thank Ralph Kingery and the San Diego Watercolor Society, as one of our earliest tenants.” Artwork will be on display at Liberty Station from Wednesday, April 12th to Thursday, April 20th. For more information, visit Liberty Station’s event page, or www.sdws.org.
04.06.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued the following statement after the United States military launched a cruise missile attack on a Syrian airfield in response to a chemical weapons attack earlier this week: “The chemical attack this week was the latest in a long line of brutal atrocities committed against the Syrian people by Bashar al-Assad – it warranted a response. “However, I am concerned that President Trump would launch an attack unilaterally without consulting the legislative branch. Congress has not provided the authority to conduct war against the Syrian government. Going forward, the President owes it to Congress and the American people to inform them of the larger strategy in Syria and any future military actions. "I look forward to working collaboratively with the President and Congress to hold Assad accountable for his actions, end the war in Syria, and provide for humane treatment of the refugees from this tragedy and tyranny."
04.03.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after the International Boundary & Water Commission completed its report on the Tijuana sewage spill that closed beaches and threatened public health in February: “I appreciate the thorough work by Commissioner Drusina and his staff at the International Boundary and Water Commission to get answers and suggest changes to help prevent this type of massive spill from happening again. “Local and state Mexican authorities acknowledged that by keeping their American colleagues in the dark for too long they prevented assistance that could have accelerated repairs, and have committed to make changes so they don’t repeat the error. They’ve also identified concrete steps to improve their reporting and communication. For my part, I intend to see how we might use existing agreements and trade negotiations to enforce those changes. “According to this report, there are dozens of sewage lines along the border at serious risk of failing and causing more spills. President Trump’s budget blueprint guts one of the existing programs designed to help repair these pipes – a program designed to keep sewage out of U.S. waterways. Rep. Vargas and I are urging Congress to reject these cuts so that we can continue to improve sewage infrastructure along the border, protect public health, and help prevent future sewage spills.” Two weeks ago, Rep. Peters raised the alarm that President Trump’s budget proposal completely eliminates funding for the Environmental Protection Agency’s U.S.-Mexico Border Water Infrastructure Grant Program – a bi-national partnership that provides grants for water infrastructure projects along the U.S.-Mexico border. According to a letter that the EPA sent to Reps. Peters and Vargas, the programs have been used to coordinate and fund repairs to sewage infrastructure that is at risk of rupturing and causing spills. Last Friday, Reps. Peters and Vargas led a letter to the House Appropriations Committee’s Interior and Environment Subcommittee, which writes the annual legislation that sets the EPA’s budget, and urged them to reject these cuts and provide robust funding to continue supporting border water infrastructure improvements.
03.28.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52), member of the Energy and Commerce Committee and Chair of the Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition’s Climate Task Force, came out in strong opposition to President Trump’s executive actions to make America’s air dirty again and move America’s energy economy backwards. President Trump ordered the Environmental Protection Agency to begin the process of rolling back its Clean Power Plan, which was set in motion last year to reduce harmful carbon pollution from America’s power plants 32% by the year 2030. The Clean Power Plan is the first attempt to lower harmful emissions from power plants – the largest source of carbon pollution in the country – and provides flexible pathways for states to move towards more sustainable energy production. “President Trump’s executive order takes America’s energy economy backwards at a time when we should be seizing the opportunity that clean energy represents.” said Rep. Scott Peters. “President Trump is mistaken in believing that he can bring back the energy sector jobs that have been lost as the market moves towards a clean energy economy. Rolling back the Clean Power Plan will only rob us of the renewable energy jobs of the future and the prospect of cleaner air, cleaner water, and an economy that is more competitive in the global marketplace. I oppose this misguided executive order, and will continue working to build a consensus in Congress for bold goals to reduce harmful emissions.” Rep. Peters wrote an op-ed in The Hill last year in support of a national objective to get 50% of America’s electricity from carbon-free sources by 2030, and has been supportive of the City of San Diego’s Climate Action Plan that aims for 100% renewable energy by the year 2035. President Trump’s executive order also eliminates guidance for federal agencies to use the social cost of carbon in their rulemaking and permitting processes. The social cost of carbon is the monetary estimate of how much small-increases in carbon dioxide emissions would harm the economy. According to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that damage can come in a decline in net agricultural productivity, human health, and property damages from increased flood risk. Scientists estimate that for each ton of carbon dioxide emitted the economic damage could be worth as much as $220 per ton. Rep. Peters continued, “The military, the private sector, and the scientific community are all in agreement that carbon emissions cost us in the long run. The social cost of carbon was a pragmatic tool that allowed the federal government to plan for the future. President Trump has made it harder for communities to know how federal rules and projects could effect public health and sustainability.”
03.24.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) marked the defeat of the Congressional Republicans’ reckless healthcare repeal, lauded the progress made under the Affordable Care Act, and reasserted his commitment to fixing what needs fixing in our nation’s current health care law and system. Republican leadership cancelled the vote on their healthcare repeal bill just minutes before it was scheduled because it didn’t have the support it needed to pass. The bill would have dismantled many of the protections of the Affordable Care Act, gutted funding for Medicaid and Planned Parenthood, raised out-of-pocket costs for seniors and working families, and led to 24 million fewer Americans having health insurance. As a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, which has jurisdiction over healthcare and first considered the bill when it was introduced, Rep. Peters has been at the center of the fight to protect health care over the past three weeks. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “I came to Congress ready to protect what is working with the Affordable Care Act, fix what isn’t, and improve our healthcare system. That’s not what this bill would have done, and President Trump’s failure to get support for his health care plan today makes it clear that a majority of my colleagues agree. “Twenty-four-million Americans – and 37,000 San Diegans in my district alone – would have been left without health insurance under the Congressional Republicans’ healthcare repeal bill. It is a huge relief to these men, women, and families that they keep their coverage because we blocked this reckless bill. “I’m proud that so many Americans – including thousands of the people I represent in San Diego – made their voices heard and urged their representatives to oppose this healthcare repeal. It’s largely because of this pressure that this bill was pulled before it even received a vote. I appreciate my constituents speaking up at town halls and through calls and emails to my office to encourage me to keep fighting to improve our healthcare system. “Congress ended up with this mess because Republican leadership never reached out to Democrats to hear our input or ask for our votes. That’s why we were left with a proposal opposed by doctors, nurses, hospitals, and just about everyone. “We can do better than this. With this disaster of a bill dead and buried, I hope that we can get to work – together – on real reforms to make healthcare more accessible and more affordable for the American people.” Click here or above to see Rep. Peters speak during today’s debate over the Republican healthcare bill. The uninsured rate in San Diego County dropped from 17% to 10% between 2013 and 2015, when the coverage provisions of the Affordable Care Act were implemented. The rate in Rep. Peters’ district dropped from 9.4% to just 5.4%. The 250,000 San Diegans who gained coverage under the expansion of Medi-Cal would have been at risk of losing their health insurance under the Republican repeal plan. Summary of Rep. Peters’ actions on healthcare since the Republican repeal bill was introduced: Participated in a marathon 27 hour meeting on the Republican healthcare repeal bill and voted against advancing it out of the Energy and Commerce Committee. During that meeting he urged fiscal responsibility and bipartisanship, and shared the story of a San Diego family who benefitted from coverage gained under the Affordable Care Act. View Rep. Peters’ remarks here, here, and here. Spoke out against the Congressional Republican’s healthcare repeal bill in an interview with CNN's Wolf Blitzer. Sent a letter signed by 95 of his colleagues demanding that Speaker Ryan give the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) time to “score” the substantive changes to the Republican healthcare repeal bill before scheduling it for a vote in the House. Spoke directly to a number of his Republican colleagues that were on the fence this week, urging them to oppose the bill and instead work together on real healthcare reforms. Participated in the debate on the House floor today, helping to make the case that members of both parties should vote against the bill and get to work together.
03.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) is leading 95 Democratic members of Congress to demand that Speaker Ryan give the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) time to “score” the substantive changes to the Republican healthcare repeal bill before scheduling it for a vote in the House. To “score” a bill is to identify the policy’s impact on the federal budget and the American people. Last week, a CBO analysis found that 24 million more Americans would be without health insurance under the new law and that out-of-pocket costs would rise, especially for seniors. This disastrous score does not include changes made to the bill this week after negotiations between Republican leaders and their conservative colleagues, which would begin cuts to Medicaid next year instead of 2020 and accelerate the tax cuts aimed at the wealthiest Americans. Despite these significant changes, the House may move forward and vote on the bill without a single hearing or an updated CBO score. Rep. Peters, who serves on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement: “Republican leadership rushed their healthcare repeal through committee before everyone had a chance to figure out how much it would cost or who it would leave uninsured, and now they are doing the same with these changes. “The analysis last week from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office found this bill would leave tens of millions more Americans without health insurance and dramatically raise costs for working families and seniors. “These changes negotiated in a backroom don’t fix the bill. They make even further cuts to Medicaid and coverage for working families, while speeding up tax cuts for wealthy people, who don’t need them. “Before scheduling a vote on this healthcare repeal bill, Speaker Ryan should at least provide Congress and the American people with an independent analysis from the Congressional Budget Office on how his new version would change the accessibility, affordability, and quality of healthcare working families can expect to receive.” Signatories to the letter were as follows: Ted Lieu (CA-33), Carolyn Maloney (NY-12), Brendan Boyle (PA-13), Elizabeth Esty (CT-05), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05), John Garamendi (CA-03), Adam Smith (WA-09), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Maxine Waters (CA-43), Timothy Walz (MN-01), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Juan Vargas (CA-51), Bill Foster (IL-11), Mark Takano (CA-41), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NY-12), Annie Kuster (NH-02), Peter Welch (VT-AL), Michelle Lujan-Grisham (NM-01), David Scott (GA-13), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Judy Chu (CA-27), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Dave Loebsack (IA-02), Donald S. Beyer (VA-08), Filemon Vela (TX-34), Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Cheri Bustos (IL-17), Stephanie Murphy (FL-07), Eliot L. Engel (NY-16), David Cicilline (RI-01), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Paul D. Tonko (NY-20), Rick Nolan (MN-08), Susan Davis (CA-53), Norma Torres (CA-35), Pete Aguilar (CA-31), G.K. Butterfield (NC-01), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Robin Kelly (IL-02), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Dina Titus (NV-01), Steve Cohen (TN-09), Seth Moulton (MA-06), John Conyers, Jr. (MI-13), Kurt Schrader (OR-05), Kathleen Rice (NY-04), Wm. Lacy Clay (MO-01), Stacey Plaskett (V.I.-At Large), Katherine Clark (MA-05), Dwight Evans (PA-02), Ted Deutch (FL-22), Alcee Hastings (FL-20), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr. (GA-04), Rick Larsen (WA-02), Salud Carbajal (CA-24), Jared Polis (CO-02), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-At Large), Jimmy Panetta (CA-20), Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Tony Cárdenas (CA-29), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Ami Bera (CA-07), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-At Large), Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), John Sarbanes (MD-03), J. Luis Correa (CA-46), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), Joseph P. Kennedy, III (MA-04), Daniel W. Lipinski (IL-03), Darren Soto (FL-09), James P. McGovern (MA-02), Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08), Alma Adams (NC-12), Yvette D. Clarke (NY-09), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-09), Danny K. Davis (IL-07), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Julia Brownley (CA-26), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Beto O'Rourke (TX-16), A. Donald McEachin (VA-04), James R. Langevin (RI-02) The letter can be read in full HERE or below: [BEGIN TEXT] Dear Speaker Ryan, We write to urge that, as you revise the American Health Care Act, you resubmit the bill to the Congressional Budget Office and receive an updated score prior to floor consideration. The score released by CBO on Monday demonstrated how significant any substantial healthcare reform is for the American public. In making and reforming healthcare policy, Congress must evaluate and understand how any policy proposals will affect access, affordability, and quality of care. The American public deserves to know the ramifications that changes to current policy will have for their ability to receive the healthcare they need. During your time as Speaker, you have committed to ensuring an open and transparent legislative process. We ask that as the House considers legislation of this magnitude, you honor that commitment. Therefore, as you and your conference contemplate making changes to the bill, it is critical that the changes be subject to an independent, public, non-partisan evaluation to help Americans understand what consequences your legislation holds for them. Sincerely, Scott H. Peters Member, U.S. House of Representatives (CA-52) [END TEXT]
03.20.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued the following statement after FBI Director Comey confirmed that the FBI is investigating Russian election interference and possible contacts between the Trump campaign and Russian hackers and has been investigating those ties since July 2016: “What Director Comey told Congress today further underscores the need for an independent Congressional investigation into Russian influence and the appointment of a special prosecutor at the Department of Justice. “We know that Russia interfered in our Presidential election. We know that Attorney General Jeff Sessions, former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn, and others have damaged their own credibility by deceiving the public about their contacts with Russia. And now we know that the FBI has enough cause for an investigation into communication between Trump’s associates and Russian hackers. “The FBI and the House Intelligence Committee are doing important work. Once they conclude, Congress must put country over party and launch an independent commission. That is the only way we can get all of the answers, preserve confidence in our democratic institutions, and ensure this never happens again.”
03.17.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted to pass a bipartisan bill that would help our veterans receive the timely, quality healthcare they have earned through their service. By creating a single database for essential open positions at the VA and allowing applicants to be considered for multiple open positions, H.R. 1367 would help speed up the hiring of qualified doctors and nurses to work at VA hospitals. There are currently more than 40,000 open health care positions within the VA. “Our veterans have earned access to quality, timely healthcare. In order to keep that promise, we need to ensure the VA has the tools it needs to hire, train, and retain top-flight medical professionals,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “It shouldn’t take more than a year to hire a qualified doctor or nurse to work at the VA and treat our veterans. This bill will give the VA the resources to fill these positions more quickly and improve the quality of services they provide to our vets.” Rep. Peters also supported the bill last week when it was approved by the House Veterans Committee on which he serves. Details on H.R. 1367: Authorizes the VA Secretary to create a single database to list critical, open positions at VA. It also allows applicants to let the VA consider them for similar positions in addition to the one for which they apply. Expands veterans preference in federal hiring processes to include retired servicemembers who have served on active duty for more than 180 cumulative days. Establishes an Executive Management Fellowship program to place VA employees in private sector positions for one year to learn skills and services similar to ones they would use in the VA.
03.17.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced the introduction of the Secure and Resilient Water Systems Act to help communities better protect their drinking water systems from drought, industrial pollution, and potential attacks. The bill asks communities to assess these threats and then establishes a grant program through the Environmental Protection Agency to provide them with the resources to make their water systems more resilient to the challenges they identify. The program would give priority to the water systems at greatest risk, and would encourage communities to adopt innovative approaches including water efficiency and water recycling. “As we work to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure, Congress must focus on public safety and our drinking water. Last year I visited Flint, Michigan and saw how the failure of its water infrastructure damaged the health and prosperity of an entire community. And in San Diego, we understand that drought-stricken communities are facing serious challenges to their short and long-term water security,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “This bill would give local communities the guidance and resources they need to innovate and address weaknesses in their own drinking water systems. As the climate continues to change and new threats emerge, it is important that we help communities make these investments now to ensure their water systems are dependent and secure.” “The Secure and Resilient Water Systems Act will help states and local communities address their vulnerabilities to provide safer water,” said Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee Rep. Frank Pallone. “I commend Congressman Peters for his ongoing dedication to ensuring that all communities have access to clean drinking water.” The American Society of Civil Engineers recently gave U.S. water infrastructure a “D” grade on its annual report card. The Secure and Resilient Water Systems Act amends the Safe Drinking Water Act to direct water systems to assess threats within two years, with EPA guidance. It also authorizes $50 million for each year from FY17-21 to establish a program at the EPA that would provide grants for communities to address these threats. The grant program would give priority to water systems at greatest and most immediate risk. It also directs the EPA to ensure that the final list of applicants include a substantial number that propose to use innovative approaches to promote more efficient water use, water reuse, or water recycling.
03.16.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) slammed President Trump’s budget proposal which, among many other drastic cuts, completely eliminates the Environmental Protection Agency’s U.S.-Mexico Border Water Infrastructure Grant Program. This program is a bi-national partnership that provides grants for water infrastructure projects along the U.S.-Mexico border that benefit public health and the environment on both sides of the border. The program has funded and would continue to fund repairs to sewage infrastructure that is at risk of rupturing and causing major sewage spills like the one that closed beaches and threated public health in San Diego County last month. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “President Trump’s proposed budget would endanger the resources and cross-border coordination needed to continue improving water infrastructure along the border – including Tijuana’s sewage system – and prevent spills like the one we saw last month. “The reality is that we live in a bi-national region. There are miles of sewer pipes in Tijuana that are in desperate need of repairs. We know that one solution to protect our beaches and bays is to improve the sewer infrastructure along the border. President Trump’s budget proposal would rob us of that solution and make it more difficult to complete necessary repairs to help prevent this kind of spill from happening again. “San Diego is defined by our relationship with the ocean, and sewage spills like these are a direct threat to our economy and our way of life. I am going to work with my colleagues in Congress to defend this program against President Trump’s reckless budget.”
03.13.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) slammed the Congressional Republicans’ healthcare bill after the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office estimated the bill would result in 14 million more Americans not having health insurance next year, and 24 million fewer covered by 2026. Rep. Peters voted against advancing the bill out of the Energy and Commerce Committee last week, citing independent estimates that it would reduce healthcare access, increase out-of-pocket costs, and undermine insurance markets. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “If these estimates are even in the ballpark, the Republican healthcare bill will nearly double the rate of Americans without health insurance over the next decade. It will rip healthcare coverage away from millions, increase out-of-pocket costs for millions more, and take us back to a time when emergency rooms overflowed with uninsured Americans seeking basic care. “These numbers confirm the worst fears about this plan that we heard from doctors, hospitals, independent experts, and hundreds of San Diegans since this bill was declassified last week. We need an open, bipartisan process to protect what is working in the Affordable Care Act, fix what isn’t, and improve our healthcare system. “This bill takes us backwards. That’s why I voted against it in committee, and will keep fighting to defeat it.”
03.09.2017	Today, after a marathon 27 hour meeting, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted against advancing the Republican healthcare repeal out of the Energy and Commerce Committee. The bill repeals many parts of the Affordable Care Act, including the individual and employer insurance mandates and the subsidies that help working families afford health insurance. The bill also makes drastic changes to the Medicaid program, which could hurt the more than 250,000 San Diegans who have gained healthcare coverage under the Medi-Cal expansion. The repeal bill passed the committee on a party line vote, the first of many steps in the path toward becoming law. “I have been willing to work with both sides to protect the parts of the Affordable Care Act that are working, and fix the parts that aren’t. That is not what this bill does,” said Rep. Peters. “Independent experts estimate that this repeal bill would increase out-of-pocket costs for working families and leave them more susceptible to premium spikes. Doctors and hospitals have said it would dramatically reduce healthcare access, leaving tens of millions without coverage. And insurers state it would undermine both the individual and employer insurance markets, which could increase costs and reduce access even more.” The uninsured rate in San Diego County dropped from 17% to just 10% between 2013 and 2015, when the coverage provisions of the Affordable Care Act were implemented. The rate in Rep. Peters’ district dropped from 9.4% to just 5.4%. Rep. Peters concluded, “This is not a binary choice between leaving things as they are and voting for this rushed, reckless bill. I stand here willing and ready to work in a bipartisan way to address today’s market conditions to provide more access to affordable care for all Americans. This doesn’t do the job.” Click here or above to view Rep. Peters share the story of Charley McMahon, a four year old girl from San Diego with Leukemia whose treatment is covered because of the Affordable Care Act and Covered California. Rep. Peters was an active player during the hearing, urging fiscal responsibility and bipartisanship, and sharing the story of a San Diego family who benefitted from coverage gained under the Affordable Care Act. View Rep. Peters’ remarks here, here, and here.
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) urged fiscal responsibility and bipartisanship during the first day of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s ‘markup’ meeting to make changes to the Republican healthcare repeal bill. Rep. Peters opposes the repeal plan that would reduce insurance coverage and increase healthcare costs for working families. Rep. Peters has a track record of supporting bipartisan healthcare proposals, and urged his colleagues to work together on a fiscally responsible plan that preserves the parts of the Affordable Care Act that are working, and fixes the parts that are not. The uninsured rate in San Diego County dropped from 17% to 10% between 2013 and 2015, when the coverage provisions of the Affordable Care Act were implemented. The rate in Rep. Peters’ district dropped from 9.4% to just 5.4%. More than 250,000 San Diego County residents are enrolled in Medi-Cal because of the Medicaid expansion passed as part of the Affordable Care Act. Click here or above to view Rep. Peters’ opening statement, during which he urges bipartisan cooperation on healthcare reforms. Click here or above to view Rep. Peters expressing concern over how the repeal bill may add to the national debt, and whether the tax credits will support working families purchasing health insurance. The Energy and Commerce Committee’s markup of the bill is ongoing, and is expected to continue throughout the week.
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House Committee on Veterans Affairs passed U.S. Congressman Scott Peters’ (CA-52) bipartisan bill H.R. 1379, which extends benefits under the Department of Veterans Affairs’ Post-9/11 Educational Assistance Program to all honorably discharged Purple Heart recipients, regardless of duration of service. Currently, Post-9/11 GI Bill education benefits are only available if a veteran completes at least 36 months of active duty service or is medically retired; however, some Purple Heart recipients are honorably discharged before either of those qualifications are attained, making them ineligible for full payments. This could apply to an estimated 1,200 to 1,500 Purple Heart recipients who are unable to receive full educational benefits because of the 36-month active duty service requirement. It would also apply to any future veterans who fall into this category. This bill would allow Purple Heart recipients to access the benefits they earned. “Purple Heart recipients have made some of the most tremendous sacrifices in service to our nation. They earned these benefits through their service and this critical fix helps us fulfill our promise to our nation’s heroes,” said Rep. Peters. “Whether veterans use these benefits to fund college classes, vocational school, or on-the-job training, this bill will make it easier for them to get the skills and training they need to transition to civilian life.” This is Rep. Peters’ first bill to pass the Veterans Committee since he joined the committee earlier this year. H.R. 1379 was cosponsored by Purple Heart recipient Rep. Brian Mast (FL-18), and fellow House Veterans Affairs Committee members Ranking Member Rep. Tim Walz (MN-01), and O&I Subcommittee Chairman Jack Bergman (MI-01). “When my tour of duty was cut short following my injuries, I was fortunate to be able to use funding from the Post-9/11 GI Bill to get my degree at Harvard. Without it, I may not be a Member of Congress right now. But there are still Purple Heart recipients that aren’t able to take advantage of this critical program for our veterans,” said Rep. Mast, a U.S. Army veteran and Purple Heart recipient. “If you’ve risked life and limb for our country, and come home with the scars to prove it, our country owes you a debt of gratitude that can never be fully repaid. Providing a high-quality education to these heroes is the least we can do, which is why I’m proud to lead this effort to ensure that every single Purple Heart recipient who is honorably discharged is eligible for Post-9/11 GI Bill funding.” “This legislation is a key victory in the effort to ensure our veterans get the benefits they deserve,” said Ranking Member Walz. “For far too long, veterans who received a Purple Heart have been denied full access to GI Bill benefits. Providing them with every opportunity for an education is the least we can do for these brave men and women who have sacrificed so much for us.” “Purple Heart recipients know sacrifice better than anyone,” said Rep. Bergman “and we owe them a debt beyond gratitude. That’s what this bill is about—it’s about making sure our Veterans have the tools to make the successful transition from military to civilian life. These are benefits hard-earned, not benefits freely-given. It’s time we give our Purple Heart recipients the opportunities that they deserve. They’ve led on the water, in the air, and on the battlefield, and I have no doubt that this legislation will give them the tools they need to lead as civilians.” “Military Order of the Purple Heart (MOPH) strongly believes that when a servicemember sheds his or her blood on a Post-9/11 battlefield, they ought to be automatically entitled to the full benefit of the GI Bill that bears the name of the conflict in which they served,” said Hershel Gober, National Commander of Military Order of the Purple Heart. “MOPH deeply thanks Representative Peters for introducing this important bill to extend those benefits to all Post-9/11 Purple Heart recipients, and we are delighted that the House Veterans Affairs Committee has advanced it to the full House so swiftly.” This bill follows Rep. Peters’ support of expanded GI Bill benefits, and leadership in the launch of zero8hundred, which is becoming a national model for helping veterans successfully transition to civilian life. Having passed the Veterans Affairs Committee, the bill will be considered for passage by the House of Representatives.
03.06.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued the following statement on President Trump’s new executive order that halts the refugee program and bans legal travel and immigration from 6 Muslim-majority nations: “The White House has said that this travel ban would be fundamentally the same as the last one that was struck down by the courts, and that is exactly what they delivered. This ban still undermines our fight against terrorism and our security interests abroad. And it still betrays our values as Americans. “President Trump has offered no evidence for imminent threats or alleged shortcomings in our rigorous screening processes that justify this sweeping, discriminatory policy. The reckless rationale behind both of these orders makes it clear that his goal is to keep an extreme campaign promise to ban Muslims, not to make Americans safer. “President Trump needs to stop playing politics with national security.”
03.02.2017	“I believe Mr. Sessions should resign” Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued the following statement regarding the revelation that Attorney General Jeff Sessions lied to the Senate Judiciary Committee during his confirmation hearing about his contacts with Russia: “The Attorney General is our nation’s top law enforcement officer. His integrity must be beyond reproach. Senator Sessions perjured himself while being considered for this ultimate position of public trust. That is disqualifying. Without the full faith of the American public, I believe Mr. Sessions should resign. “A nominee for Attorney General perjured himself under oath – twice – in the course of his job interview with the Senate about contacts with a foreign government that is known to have interfered in our election. I ask my Republican colleagues: if that is not cause for an independent investigation and a special prosecutor, what is? “As then-Senator Sessions said himself in 1999 regarding perjury, ‘No one is above the law.’” Congressman Peters is an original co-sponsor of the Protecting Our Democracy Act, which would create a 9/11-style independent commission to investigate Russian interference.
02.28.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) responded to President Trump’s address to a joint session of Congress. Earlier today, Rep. Peters and the rest of the New Democrat Coalition Leadership Team sent a letter to President Trump urging him to “stop advancing divisive policies and inflammatory rhetoric and instead focus on policies that will grow the economy, create more opportunity for all, and make government work better.” Rep. Peters released the following statement: “Tonight’s address was a disappointment for those of us who hoped President Trump would back up his big promises with a coherent, specific plan for policies that Congress can get to work on. “President Trump identified some issues where we might work with him, but it remains to be seen whether he can deliver. It’s just hard to believe given his disorganized White House, reckless Executive Orders, and hyper-partisan cabinet nominations. “And on other issues he is demanding cooperation, but only on his terms. It is one thing to criticize the shortcomings of the Affordable Care Act, but it is another to do so without putting forward a plan to fix what’s wrong short of ripping healthcare away from tens of millions of Americans. “His speech tonight doesn’t change the devastating effect that his trade and immigration policies will have on our economy and our communities in San Diego, and it doesn’t answer the many outstanding concerns about his conflicts of interest and his administration’s ties to Russia. “We already knew that President Trump can make big promises, but a speech does not make it so. Congress writes the laws, and sooner or later President Trump is going to have to come to grips with the separation of powers adopted by our nation’s founders and figure out how to work with us.”
02.24.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) urged President Trump to reconsider his nomination of David Friedman to be the U.S. Ambassador to Israel after CNN reported on a video of Friedman bragging about undermining support for a two-state solution to the Israel-Palestine peace process and criticizing the Anti-Defamation League. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “This video confirms that David Friedman is an extreme and reckless choice to be our top diplomat to Israel. “Republican and Democratic administrations have long-supported a bilaterally negotiated two-state solution as the best pathway towards lasting peace in the region, and it is dangerous to have an ambassador who has so callously undermined this position. “I am also concerned with the White House’s slow, reluctant response to the rise in anti-Semitic rhetoric and acts around the country, and find it unacceptable to nominate an ambassador who mocks organizations that are doing so much to combat hate in our communities. “I urge President Trump to reconsider this nomination in favor of someone who will better represent our shared values and our security interests abroad.”
02.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) introduced a proposal to get Congress back to work and strengthen its ability to be a constitutional check on the Trump Administration. The resolution would require the House of Representatives to meet 5 days per week for 39 weeks out of the year, for a minimum of 195 working days. The House is scheduled to work for 145 days this year, which is an increase over the average of 139 days per year since 2001. “Never before has it been as important for Congress to flex its muscle as the branch of government with the power of the purse and the power of oversight over the White House,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “Congress needs to fully investigate Russian influence over the White House. Congress needs to legislate on immigration reform to grow our economy and keep families together. Congress needs to pass not one, but two budgets this year that provide for a strong national defense and invest in the next generation, not a useless border wall. To accomplish all of these priorities and monitor whatever else the President decides to throw at us, Congress needs to show up.” In a typical four-day week, lawmakers fly to Washington during the afternoon of the first day, and fly out on the morning of the fourth day, leaving only two days to conduct other business including holding oversight hearings and amending legislation. This week, the House was to have one of only five full work weeks scheduled for 2017, but House leadership cancelled votes and sent members home early.
02.16.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted against overturning a rule issued last year by the Department of Health and Human Services that protects health care providers from being targeted and defunded for political purposes. In the past year, states have attempted to restrict funding to clinics that participate in the Title X program, which provides grants to public entities and non-profits that offer family planning and cancer screenings in underserved communities. The rule requires eligibility for these programs to be based solely on the provider’s ability to provide health care, and overturning it would undermine the integrity of the Title X program. “The Title X program is a public health success story – increasing access to care in some of our most vulnerable communities, reducing unwanted pregnancies and the prevalence of sexually transmitted diseases, and saving the federal government in long-term health care costs,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “These services give Americans the freedom to decide for themselves when to start a family and the security that comes with access to screenings for cancer and STDs. Opening the door for extremists to gut these programs would be devastating for millions of families living below the poverty line. The only litmus test we should put on providers is their ability to provide quality and efficient healthcare to Americans.” Each year Title X-funded clinics provide care to four million Americans, two-thirds of whom live at or below the federal poverty line. Existing federal law prevents Title X funding from being used for abortion services.
02.14.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued the following statement demanding answers directly from President Trump on the unanswered questions surrounding National Security Advisor Michael Flynn’s resignation from his position after reportedly discussing sanctions relief with Russia while he was still a civilian and then lying about it: “The White House was told by the Justice Department weeks ago that Michael Flynn lied to them about talking with the Russians, yet didn’t take any action to remove him from his position of power until these offenses were made public through dogged reporting. And even then, it took four days to show him the door. “Would Flynn still have been entrusted with the security of the American people if this never became public? Did the White House intentionally mislead the American people about Flynn’s connections to Russia? And under whose authority was Flynn talking to the Russians about sanctions relief in the first place after we knew they attacked our democracy? Making Flynn the scapegoat doesn’t answer these questions. “The ruble stops here. The American people deserve answers from President Trump himself. And if he doesn’t give them, then Congress must go get them.” President Harry Truman kept a sign on his desk in the Oval Office that said “the buck stops here,” which was his way of taking responsibility for every decision that came out of his White House.
02.13.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued the following statement after the White House announced that President Trump is “evaluating the situation” regarding Michael Flynn reportedly discussing sanctions relief with the Russians after they were found to have interfered in the Presidential Election: “If Michael Flynn discussed sanctions relief with Russia while he was still a civilian, America deserves to know why he was having these discussions and who he was representing, and he should be dismissed immediately. “But firing Michael Flynn and using him as a scapegoat would not excuse President Trump’s decision to put Flynn in this position of power in the first place, and it must not distract us from the specter of Russian influence over this administration. “All of us as public servants pledge loyalty to American interests ahead of our own. We need to make sure the President and his cabinet put service before self and don’t use their positions of trust to line their own pockets or advance their own agendas. And to do that, we have to know more about the administration’s relationship with Russia. “While President Trump takes more time to evaluate whether to fire his National Security Advisor for making promises to the Russians and then lying about it, Congress needs to stand together as patriots and investigate the full extent of Russian interference in our election and influence over this White House so that we can find out just how deep this goes.” Congressman Peters is an original co-sponsor of the Protecting our Democracy Act, which would create a National Commission on Foreign Interference in the 2016 Election to allow for a full Congressional investigation unimpeded by jurisdictional and partisan barriers.
02.09.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued the following statement on the unanimous decision of the 9th Circuit of the U.S. Court of Appeals to maintain a freeze on President Trump’s ban on immigration from seven Muslim-majority countries: “Today's ruling is a reminder that an independent judiciary is a cornerstone of our democracy, rooted in our Constitution, and uninfluenced by badgering and insults from even the President of the United States. No person is above the law. “While the courts took a step forward to block implementation of part of this order, I remain as committed as ever to working with Democrats and Republicans in Congress who know that unconstitutional political rhetoric must be rejected in favor of serious immigration and border policies that promote security and economic growth.”
02.07.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) was recognized for his leadership on veterans issues in Washington and selected to serve on the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs in the 115th Congress. The committee has jurisdiction over the Department of Veterans Affairs, VA hospitals, veterans cemeteries, and legislation in Congress that effects veterans and their families. During his time in Congress, Rep. Peters has introduced and passed legislation to enable VA medical centers to hire more mental health professionals, increase collaboration in the federal government to end veterans homelessness, and encourage the hiring of veterans for military construction projects. Rep. Peters has a strong record of supporting bipartisan reforms to increase accountability at VA hospitals, and helped launch zero8hundred, which is becoming a national model for helping veterans successfully transition to civilian life. “From being a long-time partner to the veterans community in San Diego, to working on and passing legislation in Washington, standing up for veterans and their families has been one of my top priorities throughout my career in public service,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “I am honored and excited to bring this experience to the Veterans’ Affairs Committee to continue fighting for San Diego’s veterans.” Rep. Peters continued, “Every year, 15,000 sailors and Marines transition out of the armed forces in San Diego, and about half of them stay here to begin civilian life. San Diego has the third largest population of veterans in the country, and we owe it to them and every veteran to ensure they have a good-paying job, an affordable place to live, and access to the healthcare and benefits they have earned. I will bring the innovative approaches that have worked for us in San Diego to the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, and continue working across the aisle to increase accountability at the VA and keep our promises to our veterans and their families who have given so much in service to our country.” Rep. Peters will now serve on both the House Energy and Commerce Committee and the House Committee on Veterans Affairs for the duration of the 115th Congress.
02.03.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted against reversing the Bureau of Land Management’s methane rule, put in place at the end of last year to reduce methane emissions from oil and natural gas extraction on public lands. In 2014, operators spewed 9.8 million metric tons of methane into the air – pollution with a short-term climate effect equivalent to the emissions from 200 coal power plants over twenty years. The rule prohibits the direct release of methane, puts stronger restrictions on controlled burning of methane from wells, and requires new technology and more frequent inspections to reduce unintentional methane leaks. “Short-lived climate pollutants are the low-hanging fruit in the fight to mitigate climate change. Embracing innovation to reduce the emission of superpollutants like methane – which is 87 times more potent than carbon dioxide – buys us time as we transition to a clean energy economy,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “This rule would help increase revenues, curb waste, and reduce harmful emissions that threaten the health of our families and the climate. But instead of finding a space where we can work together and make the rule work for businesses and communities, my colleagues want to eliminate it entirely and take a massive step back at a time when we need to be thinking about the energy solutions of the future.” The resolution to overturn the rule through the Congressional Review Act will now move to the Senate. If it passes, the methane rule will be blocked and the Bureau of Land Management will be prohibited from issuing a similar rule until Congress gives them authorization to do so.
02.01.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) is leading 70 Democratic members of Congress to get answers on how President Trump’s White House drafted and evaluated the Executive Order that suspended refugee admissions and restricted the flow of immigrants from Muslim nations. The chaotic implementation of the order over the weekend led to the detention of hundreds of travelers at U.S. airports and five federal courts issuing stays on portions of the order. Rep. Peters and his colleagues are requesting that Gene Dodaro, Comptroller of the United States, issue a report from the Government Accountability Office detailing what input was solicited from federal agencies before the order was issued, what guidance was offered to the Department of Homeland Security about how the order should be enforced, and what legal analysis was performed by the Office of Legal Counsel or any agency General Counsels before the order was signed by the President. The report will also include correspondence between the White House and the relevant federal agencies, providing a comprehensive record of the White House process for crafting the order that could be used as evidence as it is challenged in Federal Court. “The fallout from President Trump’s discriminatory Executive Order raises serious concerns about how it was crafted and why it was so recklessly implemented,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “Executive Orders that immediately affect millions of families and the economic and security interests of the United States should be vetted by agency experts and counsel, not White House political staff. If the true intent of President Trump’s Executive Order was to make our nation more secure, his own national security officials would have known how to enforce the order before it was signed.” Rep. Peters continued, “President Trump didn’t just slam the door on families fleeing violence and oppression, he did so without any understanding of how it would work or the damage that it would do. Americans want answers, and we’re going to get them.” Signatories to the letter were as follows: Rep. John Conyers Jr. (MI-13); Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-43); Rep. Robert C. Scott (VA-03); Rep. Linda Sanchez (CA-38); Rep. John A. Yarmuth (KY-03); Rep. Frank Pallone Jr. (NJ-06); Rep. Timothy J. Walz (MN-01); Rep. Nydia Velazquez (NY-07); Rep. Judy Chu (CA-27); Rep. Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12); Rep. Gerry E. Connolly (VA-11); Rep. Keith Ellison (MN-05); Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01); Rep. Ben Ray Luján (NM-03); Rep Robert A. Brady (PA-1); Rep. Danny K. Davis (IL-7); Rep. Katherine Clark (MA-5); Rep. Brian Higgins (NY-26); Rep. Seth Moulton (MA-6); Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-9); Rep. Don Beyer (VA-8); Rep. Ted W. Lieu (CA-33); Rep. Carol Shea-Porter (NH-1); Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-AL); Rep. Mark Takano (CA-41); Rep. Jamie Raskin (MD-8); Rep. Juan Vargas (CA-51); Rep. John K. Delaney (MD-6); Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-9); Rep. Andre Carson (IN-7); Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12); Rep. Susan Davis (CA-53); Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (HI-2); Rep. Kathy Castor (FL-14); Rep. Thomas Suozzi (NY-03); Rep. Jan Schakowsky (IL-9); Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR-3); Rep. Darren Soto (FL-9); Rep. Brad Schneider (IL-10); Rep. Gregory Meeks (NY-5); Rep. John Garamendi (CA-3 40); Rep. Chellie Pingree (ME-1); Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-2); Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12); Rep. Grace Napolitano (CA-32); Rep. Jimmy Panetta (CA-20); Rep. Nanette Barragan (CA-44); Rep. Derek Kilmer (WA-06); Rep. Jerrold Nadler (NY-10); Rep. Rick Nolan (MN-08); Rep. Kathleen Rice (NY-04); Rep. Ron Kind (WI-03); Rep. Barbara Lee (CA-13); Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-03); Rep. Mike Doyle (PA-14); Rep. Hakeem S. Jeffries (NY-08); Rep. Paul D. Tonko (NY-20); Rep. Eric Swalwell (CA-15); Rep. Emmanuel Cleaver II (MO-05); Rep. Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20); Rep. Mike Thompson (CA-05); Rep. Ami Bera, M.D. (CA-07); Rep. Jim Costa (CA-16); Rep. Niki Tsongas (MA-03); Rep. William R. Keating (MA-09); Rep. Josh Gottheimer (NJ-05); Rep. Marc A. Veasey (TX-33); Rep. Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11); Rep. Donald Norcross (NJ-01); Rep. José E. Serrano (NY-15). The letter can be read in full HERE or below: [BEGIN TEXT] Dear Mr. Dodaro, On January 27, 2017, President Trump signed an Executive Order entitled “Protecting the Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry Into the United States.” This order banned entry to the US for individuals from seven Muslim countries, while preserving an exception for “religious minorities.” Initially, the order was determined even to bar Green Card holders returning home to their country of permanent residence. We are deeply disturbed that this order may represent unconstitutional discrimination based on religion and national origin, and fails to distinguish between the millions of innocent and peaceful travelers and the small but determined numbers of suspected terrorists who threaten our national security. The order provides no exception for those who risked their lives to assist US military and intelligence personnel in our efforts to fight terrorism. Moreover, the order will undoubtedly be used as a rallying cry for our enemies and will undermine our efforts to defeat terrorism abroad. The rushed nature of these orders raises serious questions about the White House’s intentions in drafting and signing these orders. Further, the resulting chaos and confusion concerning who the order applied to led to the detention of an unknown number of travelers and, ultimately, orders issued by five federal judges granting immediate stays of portions of the Executive Order. There are many important questions to be answered regarding the Order’s intent, its constitutionality, and its wisdom. While Federal courts work to answer these questions, we believe that it is important to establish a factual record for the genesis of this Executive Order. For that reason, we request that you immediately review and report back to Congress on the circumstances surrounding and process through which the Executive Order was drafted, evaluated, and signed. Your review should be comprehensive, but should include, in particular, the following: What input, if any, was solicited from Federal agencies—including the Department of Justice—when Executive Order entitled: “Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States” was being drafted? How much time were Federal agencies given to review the Executive Order before it was signed? What legal analysis of the Executive Order was provided to the White House, by either the Department of Justice, Office of Legal Counsel, or any other agency General Counsels prior to its signing by the President. To what extent was the Executive Order reviewed for its consistency with current law and for its practical implementability? How does the average amount of time that agencies were given to review the Executive Order compare with the average amount of time taken for review by the previous two Administrations? What, if any, guidance was offered to the Department of Homeland Security with respect to implementing the Executive Order? Additionally, the report should include all relevant communications between the White House and applicable agencies. We request the results of your analysis be provided in unclassified form. Sincerely, Scott H. Peters Member, U.S. House of Representatives (CA-52) [END TEXT]
01.28.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) condemned a series of refugee and travel restrictions enacted by President Trump. President Trump’s order will stop the admission of any refugees for 120 days; indefinitely suspend refugee admissions from Syria; lower the number of refugees America accepts annually from 110,000 to 50,000; bar legal travel from seven majority Muslim countries for ninety days; and suspend the Visa Interview Waiver program, which allows citizens from European and Asian nations to obtain visas to travel to the United States without an interview. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “President Trump’s order to shut the door on families fleeing violence and oppression betrays our values as Americans. “So-called ‘extreme-vetting’ has always been cover for policies based in fear and discrimination, particularly towards Muslims. “Our rigorous vetting processes, which often take years to complete even for women and children, are the reason we don’t have to choose between security and being a haven for those seeking freedom and prosperity in America. “Refusing to accept refugees from Syria and blocking entry to interpreters who helped us in Iraq gives terrorist groups like ISIS exactly what they want, and will set us back in our efforts to bring peace and stability to the region. “Barring legal travel from Muslim nations does nothing to make us safer and is unbelievably cruel to the students, scientists, and families who are building lives here and contributing to the fabric of our nation. This provision, as well as the suspension of the Visa Interview Waiver Program, open us up to retaliation from other countries that will divide families and wreak havoc on businesses and universities. “Immigrants and refugees have made America into what it is today, and closing our doors to them diminishes our role as a global force for peace and robs us of talented individuals that make our nation stronger and more prosperous. “I have to believe that many of my Republican colleagues know how wrong this is and how it will hurt our national security and our economy. I call on them to do the right thing – the courageous thing – and work with us to unwind this disastrous order.”
01.26.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the San Diego Union-Tribune published an opinion editorial by U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) which lays out his commitment to public service under the new administration, as well as where he’ll draw the line and fight back against President Trump’s extremist policies. The op-ed appeared in print in the San Diego Union Tribune today, was posted on its website yesterday evening, and can viewed in its entirety below. Where I’ll Draw the Line In the Trump Years Rep. Scott Peters I am hardly alone in my apprehension about what a Donald Trump presidency means for the State of our Union. As we enter this new era, San Diegans should know that despite my grave concerns, I remain committed to solving problems and fixing a broken Washington DC. I will continue to work with anyone who has a good idea, regardless of political party or title, in order to create more prosperous future – and a government that works -- for all Americans. So if President Trump and Republicans and Democrats want to work together to revise the tax code to support middle class job creation, bring offshore profits back home to invest here, repair America’s infrastructure, and keep America’s military the strongest and best in the world, I’m ready to help. However, if the President continues to pursue some of the extreme plans he campaigned on – a Muslim registry, defunding Planned Parenthood, a border wall, reckless climate policies -- I will draw the line and fight back in the 115th Congress. Here will be my guiding principles: Loyalty. I pledge loyalty to country and district first, ahead of political party. I’ll continue to work with both parties, and I’ll stand up to my party when I disagree. I draw the line when fighting the other political party at home becomes more important than defeating our enemies abroad. We need an honest investigation of Russia’s interference with our election. And we need to make sure our President and his cabinet put service before self and don’t use their positions of trust to line their own pockets at the expense of American interests. Truth. To solve our toughest problems, we must know and accept the facts. I draw the line when some try to obscure our very real challenges with made-up realities. We know climate change threatens our future; let’s act responsibly to find economy-friendly, science-based solutions that reduce emissions and protect our planet. We know our growing national debt threatens our ability to invest in the long term. That debt won’t go away if we pretend that more tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans somehow pay for themselves. They don’t. Opportunity for All. Too many hard-working people aren’t able to make ends meet. I will continue to work for policies that reward hard work and provide economic opportunity for all; everyone should have a chance to get ahead and realize their American dream. This means working with Democrats and Republicans to invest in our federal highways and bridges and ports to create jobs and spur commerce. It means investment in science and in education so our kids can compete in today’s brain-powered economy. It means fixing our immigration system so we have the workforce we need, from farms to hospitals to laboratories. I draw the line against counterproductive policies like burying our children in student loan debt or wasting money on a multi-billion-dollar border wall. Strength Abroad. I commit to maintaining America as the world’s leader in peace and strength. That means supporting diplomacy at the Department of State and our military at the Department of Defense. It means bolstering America’s economic leadership through global trade standards that increase protections for workers around the world while leveling the playing field for American workers here at home. And it means drawing the line and fighting back if our future president wants to undermine our long-standing alliances at NATO, allow the proliferation of nuclear weapons or abuse our military strength in order to antagonize, or incite war. Respect for All. Finally, I draw a line against the divisive and malicious tone set by President Trump, from his campaign to his speeches to his tweets. I commit to kindness and compassion in all that we do as a Congress. That means caring for the poor and sick and others in need of help. It means remembering that discrimination has no place in a nation as great as ours and that immigrants and refugees are men, women and children, often fleeing danger and always seeking a better life, just like our ancestors. It means following the Golden Rule, and assuming the best in others – including my colleagues whose political ideology may be different from my own. I will continue to treat every one of my colleagues with respect and appreciation for their service to our nation. These are the guideposts San Diegans can expect me to follow. We should demand no less from the President of the United States.
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) fought back against a series of attacks from President Trump and Speaker Ryan on family planning, preventative care, and the rights of women to make their own health care choices. Rep. Peters voted against H.R. 7, a bill passed by the House that would eliminate personal subsidies and small-business tax credits for any healthcare plans that provide abortion services to patients at their own expense. The bill also makes permanent the Hyde Amendment, which prohibits the use of federal money to pay for abortion. “It’s astonishing that – just a few days after millions of Americans took to the streets and expressed their concerns with President Trump and his agenda – we have to defend the rights of women to make their own health care choices,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “The bill passed today would deprive hardworking women and families of affordable healthcare that lets them have a child on their own schedule in their own way.” Rep. Peters continued, “Family planning decisions are the most personal decisions that anyone can face; they should never be made by the government. And by making it more expensive and burdensome to be covered for the full range of family planning options, this extreme proposal threatens the financial security and independence of millions of American women and families.” Earlier today, Rep. Peters spoke out against President Trump’s executive order implementing a new and even crueler version of the Global Gag Rule. The rule restricts international aid funding to block health organizations from providing HIV prevention and care, comprehensive maternal care, and even contraception to women and families in 60 countries around the world. Click HERE or above to view Rep. Scott Peters speaking against the Global Gag Rule and H.R. 7 at a press conference held by the Pro-Choice Caucus.
01.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) condemned the decision by President Trump to pull the United States out of negotiations over the Trans Pacific Partnership, a trade deal between the United States and eleven Asian nations that would eliminate more than 18,000 taxes and trade barriers on American products. Rep. Peters voted to pass Trade Promotion Authority in 2015, which gave the Obama administration authority and guidance to negotiate the trade deal with strong environmental and labor standards. Rep. Peters announced his support for the TPP last fall, but the final deal never received a vote in Congress, despite support from Republican Congressional leadership. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “President Trump has said he wants to put American interests first by renegotiating trade deals, but by pulling out of the Trans Pacific Partnership entirely, he has put China in the driver’s seat to write the rules of global trade. “President Trump is mistaken if he thinks abandoning the TPP has long-term benefits for American jobs, American entrepreneurs, or American security interests. Keeping these trade barriers in place and giving China the upper hand to negotiate deals with lower standards will only make American products less competitive in the global marketplace. “We should instead be embracing this opportunity to create high-quality jobs in America and strengthen our relationships abroad. At a time when we face new and dynamic threats around the world, the United States cannot afford to retreat from its role as a global economic leader.”
01.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) welcomed Jerry Sanders, President and CEO of the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce, to Washington, D.C. to testify at a hearing on border economics and the role of global engagement in driving our economy and creating high-quality jobs. The bipartisan hearing was held by the Border Caucus to bring local perspectives like Sanders’ to D.C. and counter the rhetoric and proposals of the Trump administration that threaten border commerce. During the hearing, Rep. Peters and Sanders highlighted how San Diego views the border as an opportunity, not a threat, and shared approaches to balance national security with economic vitality in San Diego and across the country. “We do not have to choose between a safe border and one that facilitates prosperous international trade and tourism,” said Rep. Peters. “By investing in infrastructure and innovative approaches to protecting the border, we can have a system that keeps Americans safe and supports the export of goods made in America by American workers.” “Our region is a national model for cross-border commerce and an integrated supply chain that depends on efficient trade for the joint production of products,” said Jerry Sanders, President and CEO of the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce. “The tremendous volume of trade that passes through our region each day is a reminder that protecting national security and promoting trade and economic vitality are not mutually exclusive. An efficient border is a safe border.” Click here or the image above to watch Rep. Peters’ speech. Trade between the U.S. and Mexico surpasses $1 billion every day, but inefficiencies at ports of entry cost the U.S. $5.3 billion annually. Rep. Peters has supported infrastructure improvements at our country’s international border crossings to allow for a more efficient, safe, and secure screening process. Rep. Peters opposes President Trump’s proposed “border tax adjustment,” which would tax U.S. imports at the corporate income tax rate and lead to an estimated 15% one-off devaluation of the dollar.
01.16.2017	SAN DIEGO – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced that he will attend the Presidential Inauguration on Friday and the Women's March on Washington on Saturday. Rep. Peters released the following statement: “Earlier this month, as he prepared to leave office, President Obama told my colleagues and me to cherish the privilege of being in public service; and I do. I was elected to do a job, so this Friday, I'll show up at work and bear witness to the peaceful transition of power, which remains the bedrock of our democracy. “I greatly respect the office of the Presidency, even if I don't respect the man who will now inhabit it. So I will join Presidents Obama and Clinton, Secretary Clinton, Senator Harris, and hundreds of my colleagues at the inauguration. And then, the next day, I'll join my wife, daughter, and dozens of San Diegans and march to send a clear message to our new President about what we stand for. "The ability to respect the office of the Presidency and acknowledge the results of an election, but then turn around the next day and continue to fight for justice and progress, is the very essence of what it means to be free in this country."
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted against the Republican budget resolution, S. Con. Res. 3, which passed the House and paves the way for the repeal of the Affordable Care Act. Rep. Peters also voted against an amendment that would have removed the healthcare repeal provision because it left in place the underlying Republican budget framework and added $9.5 trillion to the national debt over the next decade. After the votes, Rep. Peters released the following statement: “The disastrous framework that passed the House today would blow a $9 trillion hole in the federal budget and rip the rug out from underneath millions of hardworking families who have gained healthcare coverage; it starts us on a reckless path back to when Americans with pre-existing conditions couldn’t get coverage and college graduates had to choose between having healthcare and paying down student loans.” “The Affordable Care Act is not perfect, and I have voted against my own party to make critical fixes to the law to lower costs for families and ease the burden on small businesses. That’s what we should be doing now – coming together on fiscally responsible improvements that make healthcare more affordable and accessible for everyone. “I am willing to work with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to improve our healthcare system, but I will continue to reject politically motivated, fiscally irresponsible attacks to repeal the Affordable Care Act that do nothing to make healthcare work better for families and entrepreneurs.”
01.12.2017	“This is how we keep tyranny from walking in the front door.” WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted in the House Armed Services Committee against granting a waiver for General James Mattis to be confirmed as Secretary of Defense after President-elect Trump blocked General Mattis from testifying in front of the committee. The waiver is needed to exempt Mattis from the prohibition on individuals serving as Secretary of Defense within seven years of separating from military service, a law designed to maintain civilian control over the military. Below are Rep. Peters’ remarks as delivered during the House Armed Services Committee hearing: “Thank you, Mr. Chairman. “Like you, I also believe strongly that our founders had it right when they established laws to maintain civilian control over the government and our armed forces. “Like you, I was excited to hear about President-elect Trump’s choice to nominate General Mattis for Secretary of Defense. “He is a man of exemplary experience who has the strength to guide our nation’s military at a time when we face new and dynamic threats at home and around the world. “And it’s because of this reputation that I was likely to support a waiver for General Mattis, so that he could become our next Secretary of Defense. “But, President-elect Trump has refused to make him available for this hearing so we can hear directly from him why we should provide that waiver. And the action before us doesn’t even specify that it is General Mattis, who will get the waiver. “I think we can all agree with much of what our colleagues have said. “That refusal to allow him to testify, despite his willingness to do so, is an insult to the House of Representatives, to this House Armed Services Committee, and to the Chairman. “We deserve better. Chairman Thornberry deserves better. And I have to say, I think you have been an exemplary and fair Chairman. You’ve set a standard for patriotism and bipartisanship in Congress. “It’s been an honor to serve with you and I think you deserve the respect from the incoming administration to have General Mattis come testify. “It looks, on the other hand, like we’re going to abandon our responsibility to weigh and to limit the terms of a waiver and to give President-elect Trump assurance that he doesn’t have to worry about the House of Representatives. “Our response to him saying he is not going to send someone down here—which seems petulant to me—is to say: ok, that’s fine. And I think that’s the wrong way to start off—whether you’re Republican or Democrat. “If I were to continue on this committee, I would be very likely to support the waiver if he would come here. But, it is wrong as a committee to abdicate our responsibility in this matter. “Pursuant to our constitutional duty, we should stand up without regard for party. We should demand that we be allowed to hear from General Mattis and we should provide our constitutional check on the executive branch. “Maintaining these checks and balances is how we keep tyranny from walking in the front door. “It’s our job. We have to do our job under the Constitution and we are making excuses for not doing our job today. “The quality of the candidate is not an excuse. “We should hold the administration accountable to bring General Mattis before us, allow him to appear pursuant to his wishes, and until he does so, I will not support the waiver and I urge my colleagues to join me. “I thank you again, Mr. Chairman, for your service to the country.”
01.11.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) was selected by his Democratic colleagues to serve on the House Energy and Commerce Committee during the 115th Congress. The committee has jurisdiction over legislation and regulation pertaining to energy and the environment, healthcare, telecommunications, and interstate commerce, making it one of the most influential policy-making bodies in Congress. Some of the most consequential legislation signed into law during the last Congress – the 21st Century Cures Act, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act Modernization Act – originated in the Energy and Commerce Committee. Rep. Peters will be the only member of the San Diego congressional delegation on the committee, putting him in a stronger position to advocate for many of the region’s top economic priorities. “Since coming to Congress, I have made the growth of San Diego’s innovation economy my top priority: investments in scientific research and renewable energy that create high-quality jobs, regulatory streamlining that incentivizes startups and new technology, and sensible trade policies that expand markets and level the playing field for American workers,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “My presence on Energy and Commerce will give me an even stronger voice to advocate for the region's innovation economy that provides the majority of our future job growth. It also puts me in the right place at the right time to fight back against broadside attacks on Planned Parenthood, climate science, and healthcare for millions of Americans." Rep. Peters brings to the committee an exceptional background to work on climate and environmental policy, as well. After spending fifteen years as an environmental lawyer in public and private practice, Rep. Peters led the effort as President of the San Diego City Council to reduce sewer spills and beach closures and won an award from the American Planning Association for sustainability in a city general plan. As Chair of the San Diego Unified Port District, he initiated the first Climate Action Plan at any U.S. port to confront the effects of sea level rise. In Congress, he has chaired the Climate Task Force of the Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition, introduced bills to limit short-lived climate pollutants and increase resiliency, and received the Navy Distinguished Public Service Award from Secretary Ray Mabus for his support on the Armed Services Committee of the Navy’s investments in renewable energy. Rep. Peters continued, “Policies to help us adapt to and mitigate climate change have been my focus long before coming to Congress. On the committee I will continue working to build a bipartisan consensus around pragmatic, pro-growth policies that embrace innovation, enhance our water and energy security, and move us closer to a renewable energy future.” Leaders of San Diego’s innovation economy praised Rep. Peters’ selection to the Energy and Commerce Committee and its importance to advocating for the region’s priorities. "Congressman Peters has always been a steadfast champion of San Diego’s regional clean technology industry with a strong understanding of how innovations, business practices, and policies that are good for the environment are also good for the economy. We congratulate Congressman Peters on his selection to the Energy and Commerce Committee, which places him in an important position to continue to advocate for our regional cleantech priorities,” said Cleantech San Diego President and CEO Jason Anderson. “Biocom congratulates Congressman Scott Peters on his well-deserved appointment to the prestigious Energy & Commerce Committee, one he has sought since his first election to Congress in 2012. Throughout his tenure, Rep. Peters has proven to be a voice of reason and an architect of change, working with his colleagues on both sides of the aisle. We look forward to his leadership as the committee addresses matters critical to the long-term success of California’s life science sector, including health care reform, biomedical research, regulatory and reimbursement policy, and the reauthorization of user fee agreements,” said Joe Panetta, President & CEO of Biocom. “California Life Sciences Association congratulates Congressman Scott Peters on his appointment to the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which oversees key federal programs and legislation of importance to the continued success of San Diego’s life sciences community. In Congress, Rep. Peters has distinguished himself as a thoughtful and principled leader on policies that bolster biomedical research, investment and innovation, a record we were proud to recognize by presenting Congressman Peters a CLSA Visionary Award in 2014,” said Sara Radcliffe, President & CEO, California Life Sciences Association (CLSA). Because of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s exclusive status, it is the only committee on which Rep. Peters will serve during the 115th Congress. Subcommittee selection is expected tomorrow.
01.10.2017	Bill is part of Rep. Peters’ Fix Congress Now plan Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) introduced the 60 Day Rule Act, a bipartisan bill that would change the rules of the House of Representatives to break gridlock and make Congress more productive. The proposal would require any bill approved by a House committee to be voted on by the entire House of Representatives within 60 days of it passing committee. Currently, Congressional leadership has full discretion on which bills to advance to the House floor and which to block. “It shouldn’t be up to just a handful of Congressional leaders to decide which bills are worthy of consideration. Any bill that is good enough to get passed by a bipartisan committee deserves to get a vote in the House,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “Too often, innovative ideas that might help create jobs or expand opportunity languish on the Speaker’s desk because he doesn’t want to create a tough vote for his members. Well tough votes are part of the job; it’s time to get Congress moving again.” The bill is part of Rep. Peters’ government reform plan Fix Congress Now, which also includes proposals to reduce perks and government waste, ensure high ethical standards, and increase transparency. Co-sponsors of Rep. Peters’ bipartisan 60 Day Rule Act include Reps. Tom Marino (PA-10) and Derek Kilmer (WA-6). “Too often, quality bills pass committee, but then with little explanation or reason, never make it to the House floor,” added Rep. Tom Marino (PA-10), an original co-sponsor of the bill. “We cannot continue to let common sense legislation fall through the cracks as our economy and the American people suffer. This legislation ensures government operates as it should and that each bill has an opportunity to come before the people’s representatives in Congress. It is well past time to put Washington back to work for the American people. This bill is an important first step in that direction.”
01.06.2017	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued the following statement on the declassified report issued by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence on Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election: “This report is unambiguous in its assessment that Russian interference in our election was directed by Vladimir Putin, enabled by Wikileaks, and sought to undermine the legitimacy of our electoral process in order to tip the scales in favor of Mr. Putin’s preferred candidate. These actions are without precedent, and should alarm every American. “We don’t know if Russian interference affected the outcome of the election. I am not seeking to overturn the Electoral College results certified by Congress today. However, we do know that our freedom and democracy have been attacked, and that these actions warrant a formidable response that imposes tremendous costs on those responsible. “The best and brightest of our intelligence community – many who risk their lives in defense of our nation and deserve our respect and trust – have done their duty and provided us with this assessment. Now is the time to stand together as patriots in a bipartisan defense of our democracy to ensure that this never happens again.” Congressman Peters is an original co-sponsor of the Protecting our Democracy Act, introduced today, that would create a National Commission on Foreign Interference in the 2016 Election to allow for a full Congressional investigation unimpeded by jurisdictional and partisan barriers.
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted with a broad bipartisan majority to pass legislation that disapproves of the contentious United Nations Security Council resolution 2234 passed in December. The Security Council resolution, which the United States abstained from voting on, criticizes Israeli and Palestinian actions and their effects on the peace process. After the vote, Rep. Peters released the following statement: “The United Nations Security Council Resolution undermined the fundamental idea that long-term stability can only be achieved through bilateral negotiations between the Israeli and Palestinian people. “The construction of Israeli settlements in disputed territory undercuts efforts to bring consensus on a two-state solution. But seeking to extract concessions outside of a joint negotiation is unproductive and divisive at a time when we should be focused on bringing the parties together. “I disagree with much of the language in today’s resolution and the manner in which it is presented, but ultimately voted for the resolution as the clearest, and only, way to express my dissatisfaction with the UN Security Council resolution and the chilling effect it could have on the peace process. “I remain committed to a bilaterally negotiated two-state solution as the only way to bring about the only thing that all nations can agree they want – everlasting peace.”
01.03.2017	Condemns Attempt to Gut Congressional Ethics Office WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) opposed the rules package for the new Congress that included a provision to impose fines on members who take videos or live stream from the House floor. This was in direct response to Rep. Peters’ live streaming of the House Democratic sit-in in July to make sure the American people knew there were many members who stood with them and wanted Congress to do more to end the senseless gun violence plaguing our nation. When Speaker Ryan turned off the House cameras that day, Rep. Peters used Periscope to let the people back in to the people’s House. “At a time when America’s trust in their government is at a deep low, it’s a sad thing for the Speaker of the House of Representatives to want to punish members of Congress for shining a light on the actions of the people’s elected representatives. Mr. Ryan’s plan to create another barrier between the people and their government is as out of touch as the fact that he won’t let us take a single vote on bipartisan proposals to curb gun violence,” Rep. Peters said. “Congress needs to figure out appropriate ways to engage and empower citizens with their often too insular government. If my 21st century approach doesn't work for Speaker Ryan, I would love to hear his alternatives, but these new rules are a step back for transparency.” Rep. Peters also condemned a late-night attempt by the Republican majority to gut the Office of Congressional Ethics – charged with independently investigating members of Congress for ethics violations – which they ultimately withdrew this morning after intense public outrage. Rep. Peters is a champion of government reform, and his Fix Congress Now plan includes proposals to raise ethics standards, increase accountability, and make government work for the people again. Rep. Peters continued, "Launching a broadside attack on accountability was the absolute wrong way to start the new Congress. I’m glad my colleagues came to their senses and revoked this proposal, and will continue to oppose any attempt to weaken ethics standards or allow Congress to police itself.”
12.23.2016	Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) releaasd the following statement on the United Nations Security Council Resolution: The construction of settlements in territory that would be part of an independent Palestine undercuts efforts to bring consensus on a two-state solution. However, today's United Nations Security Council Resolution goes against the fundamental idea that long-term stability can only be achieved through direct bilateral negotiations between the Israeli and Palestinian people. In these times of violence and unrest throughout the region, our energy should be focused on bringing people together, not pushing them apart. I call on all parties to put their differences aside, and rededicate their efforts. The two-state solution is the only way to bring about the one thing that all nations can agree they want - everlasting peace.
12.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52), announced changes to his congressional staffs in San Diego and Washington, D.C. that will bring three more San Diegans onto his team for 2017. Robert Phillpott is departing as the District Scheduler this week and will be replaced by Hannah Stern, a Coronado native and University of California, San Diego graduate with an M.S. in Psychology from Claremont Graduate University. In addition to taking over scheduling and office management, Stern will also help cover biotech issues for Rep. Peters in San Diego. Jennifer Sosa began in early December as a Field Representative in the San Diego office. Also a UCSD graduate, Sosa’s portfolio will include women’s health, education, and government reform, and she will handle constituent casework for immigration and the Department of Education, among other responsibilities. In January, Erin Magee will start in the Washington, D.C. office as the Legislative Correspondent. Magee was born and raised in San Diego, graduated from Gonzaga University, and previously served as an intern in Rep. Peters’ San Diego office. Rep. Peters released the following statement on the changes to his staff: “I consider it part of my service to support young leaders and help them develop into roles – whether it be on my staff or elsewhere – where they can make positive change for San Diego and the country. “Robert has grown tremendously during his time as an intern and a staff member. I am grateful for the work he has done in the community and wish him the best as he pursues a degree at UC Berkeley. “Hannah, Jennifer, and Erin are bright, emerging leaders who have all worked for me in some capacity before and proven their commitment to public service and San Diego. They bring a range of experience and expertise to the team, and will uphold the same high standard for constituent service that San Diegans have come to expect from my office.”
12.20.2016	SAN DIEGO – Today, Rep. Scott Peters (CA-52) presented a long-overdue Bronze Star Medal to U.S. Army veteran, Corporal Jack Thorpe, of Bay Park. Mr. Thorpe served during World War II, serving in Germany as part of the 4th Armored Division of General Patton’s 3rd Army, that spearheaded the Allied advance through Europe, including the siege of Bastogne, which was part of the larger Battle of the Bulge. He also helped liberate the Ohrdruf concentration camp, the first German concentration camp liberated by U.S. troops. Mr. Thorpe’s family contacted Rep. Peters’ office after reading an article about Rep. Peters’ office recovering overdue metals for another veteran in September. “It is an honor to present Jack Thorpe with this long-overdue recognition. One of my most rewarding jobs in Congress is honoring our nation’s heroes for their service and sacrifice,” said Rep. Peters. “We are forever indebted to heroes like Mr. Thorpe, who were part of a generation that gave everything they had for their country.” Rep. Scott Peters (CA-52) pictured with U.S. Army veteran Corporal Jack Thorpe (left). Rep. Peters’ staff worked with the National Personnel Records Center and the Department of the Army to determine that Mr. Thorpe was entitled to the Bronze Star. The Bronze Star is awarded to a servicemember for heroic or meritorious achievement or service action in combat against an enemy of the U.S. or while helping an ally. “It’s wonderful that somebody recognized what had to be done, especially after reaching out to many others for help that couldn’t. I’m really amazed Rep. Peters’ office was able to find this. I can’t believe it,” said Mr. Thorpe. “My office is available to help any San Diego servicemembers, veterans, and their families who are struggling to get the care or recognition they have earned through their service. I encourage other veterans and their families to reach out if they need help,” said Rep. Peters.
12.14.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement reflecting on the fourth anniversary of the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut and his advocacy for commonsense gun safety laws: “Today I think about the lives that were tragically cut short four years ago –six educators who should still be alive and doing their important work and twenty children who should be in the fifth grade learning math and history and playing team sports. They should be middle schoolers, not memories, and as a parent of two grown children that will always be heartbreaking. “I was elected to Congress just weeks before Sandy Hook, and the memory of that day is still what drives me to fight for the action to reduce gun violence that the American people want and deserve. “Next year, I will continue working in Congress to strengthen background checks and defend against attempts to undermine California’s strong gun safety laws that help keep our law enforcement safe and allow our children to live the long, healthy lives they deserve.”
12.13.2016	San Diego – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) held a toy safety demonstration to share information and resources with parents and families during the holiday season, when toy purchases increase. Rep. Peters was joined by consumer and parent advocates, medical professionals and a city firefighter, who all presented ways to reduce risk of injury. “As a former environmental attorney, I know the harm toxins can cause, especially the ones found in items children touch and use every day. As a parent, I know the constant worry about whether you’re doing the right thing to keep your kids safe. Especially when kids are small, you have to be constantly aware of what they can get their hands on and whether it’s a choking or toxic danger,” said Rep. Peters. “We can increase awareness of toy hazards and share resources to prevent injury if we engage all levels of government and our community.” In 2015, there were over 250,000 toy-related injuries treated by emergency rooms in the United States, while the number of toy recalls has decreased. During the demonstration, Rep. Peters highlighted safety information and resources from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Consumer Product Safety Commission that can help parents prevent toy hazards that might harm young children. “Our message is that if you think your child is in danger, call 911. There is nothing more important than our children – to keep them safe,” said San Diego Fire Department Deputy Chief Douglas Perry. “Toys that violate U.S. standards or are dangerous are stopped here at the ports before they get into a store or into the hands of children,” said Mark Long, a Product Safety Investigator for the U.S. Consumer Project Safety Commission. “We use state-of-the-art shipment targeting to stay proactive in preventing dangerous products from reaching store shelves.” Mary Beth Moran, Injury Prevention Program Manager at Rady Children’s Hospital added, “This holiday season, we really want people to check that recall list and make sure the product you are buying has not been recalled. And if you have children of multiple ages, you want to make sure you keep their toys separate.”
12.12.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement responding to reports on the CIA’s analysis of Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election: “In a world full of new and dynamic threats to our security, including cyber-attacks, we cannot afford to look at national security through a partisan lens. “America’s intelligence officers are patriots with tremendous skills who risk their lives to supply us with critical information – it is dangerous to ignore their warnings. Every American should be alarmed by reports of a foreign assault on our free elections and want to get to the bottom of it. “I support a full, bipartisan congressional investigation into Russian interference in our election not to undermine or overturn the results, but to ensure that decision makers at every level and the American people understand the full extent of what happened. We must preserve confidence in our democratic process and know the extent to which these attacks may expose further vulnerabilities in our cybersecurity.”
12.08.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass a bipartisan bill that will bring millions of dollars to the San Diego region to improve water security and drought mitigation. The Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act, a comprehensive water bill that decides water infrastructure projects and policy for the next two years, authorizes projects in the San Diego region and allocates federal funds for water desalination, recycling, and storage projects to support drought-ridden southern California. The bill also includes an amendment from Rep. Peters that gives the Army Corps of Engineers the resources to evaluate the structural health of its current infrastructure and construction projects. By using structural health monitoring, the Army Corps can increase the resiliency of potentially vulnerable infrastructure before a disaster strikes, and be able to more quickly evaluate damage after a disaster. “As we face the longest drought in our state’s history and prepare for the effects of climate change, it is crucial that we make investments in resiliency, innovation, and water security,” Rep. Peters said. “This bill is not exactly what I would have written, but it is a bipartisan compromise that moves projects forward and unlocks much-needed resources. San Diego has made crucial investments in innovative water projects that put us in a good position to compete for these funds and enhance our water security in the long-term.” Rep. Peters also praised the $170 million dollars in funding to repair Flint’s water infrastructure and help families and children poisoned by the water crisis. Helping the people of Flint has been a personal priority for Rep. Peters, an environmental attorney who spent much of his childhood in the Detroit suburb of Southfield, Michigan and visited Flint earlier this year. Rep. Peters continued, “During my childhood in the Midwest I learned that when your neighbor is in need you drop everything to help them. The people of Flint have needed help for months, and the deadly issues with their water infrastructure have been ignored for much longer. These resources will help restore clean drinking water to the people of Flint and provide long-term support to the children who were poisoned during the water crisis.” Below are a number of provisions in the Water Resource Development Act relevant to San Diego: Authorizes $20.2 million in initial federal funding for the Encinitas and Solana Beach Coastal Storm Damage Reduction Project, which will help reduce risks to public safety and commerce associated with bluff and beach erosion in that area of San Diego County. Provides $70 million for the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act fund and increases funding for WaterSMART from $350 million to $450 million, primary sources of grants for San Diego’s Pure Water project. Reforms the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund to allow the Port of San Diego to access more money from the fund than it was previously allowed, enabling the Port to take better advantage of the money it contributes. Allocates more than $450 million for water desalination, recycling, and storage projects to enhance water security in drought-ridden California. Authorizes funding to restore the Salton Sea, a priority for the San Diego region.
12.08.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass a continuing resolution to fund the federal government through April 2017 that includes $170 million to respond to the Flint water crisis, $872 million for scientific research and other programs in the 21st Century Cures Act, and more than $10.1 billion to support military operations abroad. After the vote, Rep. Peters released the following statement: “The massive investment in scientific research Congress made today will create the jobs of the future in places like San Diego and lead to discoveries that will save and improve countless lives. “This bill avoids a costly government shutdown, ensures that essential government programs can keep operating, and gives our military the resources to continue countering threats abroad. A long-term budget would give our military leaders and business community more certainty, and I look forward to a more regular budgeting process next year that cuts wasteful spending, invests in expanding educational opportunity, and reforms the tax code to incentivize wage growth for working families.”
12.06.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass three bills that will increase accountability at the VA, improve the quality of care veterans receive at VA hospitals, and expand and update certain benefits to better serve veterans and their families. The largest of the bills is the Veterans Health Care and Benefits Improvement Act, which repackages a number of bills already introduced in the House to improve the chance that they are signed into law before the end of the year. It would update the scheduling and pay-structure for VA doctors to better compete with the private sector, cut red tape to get survivors and small business benefits to veterans’ families more quickly, and give Medal of Honor recipients priority enrollment in VA healthcare. The bill also directs the VA and Departments of Defense and Labor to better coordinate their programs that help veterans transition to civilian life – a provision similar to Rep. Peters’ Veterans Employment Transition (VETS) Act. Rep. Peters also helped pass the Ethical Patient Care for Veterans Act, which requires VA doctors to report incompetent or unethical behavior to state medical licensing authorities, and the Faster Care for Veterans Act, which directs the VA to begin testing privately-developed scheduling programs to expedite appointment scheduling for veterans. The Ethical Patient Care for Veterans Act was passed in response to an opioid scandal at a Wisconsin VA hospital, dubbed “Candy Land,” where prescriptions for opiates quadrupled from 2004 to 2012, leading to at least one overdose death. This legislation will ensure that state licensing boards are informed of improper behavior and able to intervene and reprimand health care professionals in the event that VA officials fail to do so. “These are important, bipartisan reforms to help get our veterans and their families the benefits and care they have earned through their service,” said Rep. Peters. “Changes to expedite the payment of survivor benefits and embrace innovation in scheduling VA appointments will make a real difference in the lives of veterans and their families. And in San Diego, where 15,000 servicemembers leave active duty every year, we understand better than most the need for high-quality programs that help our vets find employment and housing and make a successful transition to civilian life.” Peters continued, “Keeping our promises to our veterans requires not just resources, but changing the culture at the VA to increase accountability and put the focus on serving the veteran, not the bureaucracy,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “The Ethical Patient Care for Veterans Act will keep negligent administrators from being able to cover up improper behavior and endanger our veterans as they did in Wisconsin. I will continue working next year to see the comprehensive accountability measures that I have supported this Congress made into law to ensure that our veterans receive the high standard of care they have earned through their service.” Rep. Peters has made VA reform a priority of his work in Congress and voted twice in the past two years to pass bipartisan packages that would give the Secretary of the VA more authority to fire poorly performing employees, increase protections for whistleblowers, and reduce perks for senior VA employees.
12.05.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass the Combat-Injured Veterans Tax Fairness Act, which pays back heroes who had taxes wrongly deducted from benefits related to their injuries. Due to incorrect accounting by the Department of Defense, more than $78 million has been improperly withheld from veterans who received severance packages because of injuries sustained during combat. Federal courts have ruled that such benefits should not be taxed. The bill also makes void in these cases the Internal Revenue Service’s typical three-year limit on amended tax returns so affected veterans can receive all the benefits they are owed. “As with the California National Guard crisis, the burden of bureaucratic mistakes should never fall on the shoulders of our servicemembers,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “In this case, these are veterans who sustained injuries in service to our country they will live with for the rest of their lives. This bipartisan bill ensures they receive every penny they are due. I will always fight to keep our promises to our veterans and ensure they receive the benefits they have earned through their service.”
12.02.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass the conference report for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), the final version of the overarching annual defense policy bill as agreed upon between the House and the Senate. The bill, which Rep. Peters helped negotiate as a selected member of the NDAA conference committee, authorizes $619 billion in defense spending, provides a much-needed fix for the California National Guard bonus crisis, and includes a number of pieces of legislation authored by Rep. Peters. The Senate is expected to pass it next week and the President has indicated that he will sign it into law. When the legislation was first considered in the House Armed Services Committee in April, Rep. Peters worked to pass three amendments and was credited with defeating another amendment that would have prevented the Department of Defense from planning for the threat of climate change. NDAA was then voted on the House floor in May, where Rep. Peters passed three more amendments, including one to increase the number of veterans employed to build military construction projects. He also furthered his role as a leading defense energy security advocate. Finally, Rep. Peters was named to the bipartisan conference committeethat negotiates differences between the House and Senate versions of NDAA. In conference, he fought for San Diego’s defense priorities and to remove discriminatory language; he signed the report approved by the House today. “Finalizing America’s defense policy is the most important thing Congress does every year,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “In an era of new and dynamic threats, we must provide for a tough, smart national defense to defeat our enemies abroad and keep Americans safe at home. This bill meets that challenge by giving our servicemembers the support and advanced technology they need to carry out their missions, allocating resources to address readiness shortfalls, and allowing our military leaders to prepare for every possible threat – including changes in our climate.” The bill also directs the Department of Defense to waive the recoupment of bonuses from CA National Guard members who accepted them unknowingly, and provides authority to repay veterans who were wronged. This makes good on Rep. Peters’ commitment in October to work across the aisle and use NDAA as a vehicle to fix the bonus crisis. Rep. Peters continued, “The burden of this fraud and mismanagement never should have fallen on our servicemembers who bravely signed up to serve our country more than a decade ago. This will fix that mistake and begin to make our veterans and their families whole again.” The bill authorizes almost $280 million for military construction projects at Naval Base Coronado and Naval Amphibious Base Coronado, as well as over $154 million for military construction projects at Marine Corps Air Station Miramar. Congressman Peters, co-chair of the bipartisan Special Operations Forces Caucus, noted that those projects included more than $94 million for the Coastal Campus expansion project to rebuild and improve training facilities for Coronado’s Navy SEALs. A provision negotiated by Rep. Peters to facilitate a necessary land exchange between the Port of San Diego and the U.S. Navy regarding the Navy Broadway Complex was included in the bill passed today, as was Rep. Peters’ amendment, previously passed in committee, expressing support for DoD programs that provide specialized camps for grieving military children.
11.30.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52), co-chair of the bipartisan congressional Life Science Caucus, helped pass the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act, a game-changing $6.3 billion investment in scientific research that meets Rep. Peters’ long-held goal of increasing funding for the National Institutes of Health. The bill includes funding for the Precision Medicine Initiative, the Cancer Moonshot, and other programs that will spur discovery, improve quality of life, and boost San Diego’s innovation economy. President Obama strongly supports the 21st Century Cures Act, which is expected to be taken up by the Senate next week and signed into law before the end of the year. After voting in favor of the 21st Century Cures Act, which passed on a broadly bipartisan 392-26 vote, Rep. Scott Peters released the following statement: “The 21st Century Cures Act achieves a goal I have prioritized since coming to Congress – boosting funding for the National Institutes of Health – that will make America more competitive and create the jobs of the future right here in San Diego. “There isn’t a city in America better positioned to meet the bold aspirations of the 21st Century Cures Act, or benefit from the resources it provides, than San Diego. We are the center of genomics, the center of life sciences, and the center of collaborative scientific research that makes groundbreaking discoveries and improves peoples’ lives. “Programs like the Cancer Moonshot and the Precision Medicine Initiative – which have the potential to unlock cures that will change millions of lives – are already counting on and investing in San Diego’s world-class research institutions. And the streamlining of FDA approval processes will incentivize innovation and give patients – particularly those with life threatening or debilitating diseases – more options to manage their diseases and improve their quality of life. “This legislation also includes desperately needed funding to confront the opioid epidemic – a scourge that has taken a heartbreaking toll on families in every community in America, including San Diego. “I would have preferred the higher level of mandatory funding included in the version considered earlier this year, but appreciate the work that was done to come to this bipartisan compromise. The 21st Century Cures Act is still a significant investment in our scientific community that offers the potential for discovery to improve lives and expand economic opportunity. I am proud to support it, and look forward to seeing it signed into law.” Key provisions in the 21st Century Cures Act include: $4.8 billion in new funding for research through the National Institutes of Health over the next decade including $1.8 billion for the Cancer Moonshot, $1.5 billion for the BRAIN Initiative, and $1.45 billion for the Precision Medicine Initiative. San Diego is the top metro area in the country for NIH research funding, receiving more than $768 million in funding in 2015. $1 billion in new funding over the next two years for grants to states to prevent and treat opioid abuse. Streamlines the FDA approval process for certain devices and drugs and establishes programs for expedited approval of medical devices that represent breakthrough technologies. Supports the next generation of scientists by increasing to $50,000 from $35,000 the maximum annual payments on student loans under the Public Health Service Act for young NIH researchers.
11.30.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass a pair of bills to ensure veterans receive the benefits they have earned. The WINGMAN Act would provide caseworkers in congressional offices with additional tools to assist veterans. Under the new law, certified congressional employees would be able to obtain consent from a veteran constituent to view their Veterans Benefits Administration electronic records directly. This would allow caseworkers to see a veteran’s benefit history rather than having to request the information from the VA as they do now – making the free casework assistance provided by congressional offices more efficient. Since 2013, Rep. Peters and his San Diego office have helped recover almost $1.3 million in veterans benefits owed to San Diego veterans. “San Diego has one of the largest populations of veterans in the country, and one of my most important jobs is ensuring they get the benefits and care they have earned through their service,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “This reform would give congressional staff an additional tool to navigate the federal bureaucracy and get answers for our veterans. In some cases this could mean getting benefits restored or back payments issued more quickly.” Rep. Peters also voted to pass the Protecting Veterans’ Educational Choice Act, which would require VA education counselors to inform veterans eligible for education assistance about their ability to transfer credits between certain colleges and universities. This simple step will help ensure veterans have the information they need to use their earned educational benefits in the most efficient manner possible and do not find themselves unable to finish a degree or transfer credits.
11.18.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued the following statement on reports that Speaker Paul Ryan plans to move forward with a plan to phase-out and privatize Medicare: “I ran for Congress in 2012 on the promise that I would fight the privatization of Medicare, which is a lifeline for millions of seniors who have paid into it over a lifetime of hard work. My position has not changed, and I oppose Speaker Ryan’s plan to privatize Medicare.” Recently, Talking Points Memo erroneously suggested without confirmation that Rep. Peters was not steadfastly opposed to the Ryan Medicare plan based on a tweet. It is unclear how they reached that conclusion, but this statement represents Rep. Peters’ unwavering opposition to the Ryan plan to privatize Medicare.
11.18.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced San Diegans who wish to attend the 58th Presidential Inauguration in Washington, D.C. may request tickets through his office. The 2017 Presidential Inauguration will take place on Friday, January 20 when the President-elect will be sworn in as the 45th President of the United States. Each U.S. Senate and Congressional Office will receive a small number of tickets for the ceremony. To request tickets, visit Rep. Peters’ website and fill out the submission form. Requests must be received by Friday, December 9, 2016. All submissions will be entered into a lottery and winners will be notified in writing by mid-December. The tickets are outdoor, standing-room only access to the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol. Those who do not obtain tickets can still view the Inauguration on giant screens along the length of the National Mall. Tickets requested through Rep. Peters’ office are open to CA-52 residents only, and submitting a request does not guarantee tickets. Constituents who have questions may call Rep. Peters’ Washington, D.C. office at 202-225-0508.
11.15.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped approve new sanctions on the Syrian government and its supporters and encourage negotiations to end the civil war that is now in its sixth year. The measures include sanctions on individuals who do business with the Syrian government, its state-owned transportation and telecom sectors, or its energy industry. After the House passed the new sanctions, Rep. Peters released the following statement: “The Syrian Civil War has caused tremendous suffering and created a vacuum where the Islamic State and Al-Qaeda’s affiliates can train fighters and plan attacks. As our partners in Iraq – backed by U.S. airpower and special operations forces – advance on Mosul, drawing down the conflict in Syria is the next step in destroying the Islamic State and reducing the threat of attacks against the United States. “These sanctions are part of a smart, tough strategy to force the Syrian Government and other parties to the table without entangling American ground troops in another Middle Eastern civil war. I continue to back the use of American airpower to weaken the Islamic State, and as part of the select committee that finalizes the defense policy bill, I will be working in the coming weeks to give our military leaders the tools they need to counter these and other threats around the world and keep Americans safe.”
11.15.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued the following statement on President-elect Donald Trump’s appointment of noted white nationalist and anti-Semite Stephen Bannon to a senior White House position: “Last Thursday, I issued a statement expressing my shock at the results of the presidential election and laying out my approach to service under President-elect Trump. President Obama and others have said that we should wait to see what kind of President Mr. Trump would be, and I said last week that if President-elect Trump wants to work together on middle-class priorities like infrastructure investment and tax reform, I would continue my bipartisan approach and work with him. But I stand by my promise that if President-elect Trump tries to put his hateful, reckless rhetoric into action I will fight like hell to stop him. “Stephen Bannon has made a name by fueling and monetizing hate – he has no place in the halls of power. By bringing a white nationalist and professional anti-Semite into the White House, President-elect Trump is acting on his campaign rhetoric and realizing many of our fears about the direction he intends to take our country. I condemn this appointment in the strongest possible terms. “I have had an open mind to President-elect Trump’s agenda – he has unquestionably failed his first test.” Rep. Peters joined more than 120 fellow House Democrats on a letter to President-elect Trump urging him to rescind Bannon’s appointment.
11.14.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass three pieces of legislation that will increase access to quality health care and better coordinate research for Type-II Diabetes and other autoimmune diseases. Rep. Peters is a co-sponsor of a bill passed by the House today to reauthorize Title VIII Nursing Workforce Development programs that provide support for nursing education programs, nurses, and nursing students. Rep. Peters has previously supported robust funding for Title VIII programs, which are the largest source of federal support for nursing education and provide grants, loans, and support to prepare students to meet the growing need for qualified nurses. Rep. Peters also helped pass the Improving Access to Maternity Care Act to place maternal health professionals in areas of need, and the National Clinical Care Commission Act, which will coordinate efforts across federal agencies to support treatment and research of autoimmune and metabolic disorders like Type 2 Diabetes. “Nurses are on the frontlines of health care providing essential and lifesaving care to millions of Americans every day,” said Rep. Peters. “Title VIII programs provide the grants and loans necessary to incentivize students to enter the nursing field and ensure they have the support they need as they advance in their careers. These bipartisan bills will expand access to quality care, improve patient outcomes, and ensure we meet the growing demand for qualified health professionals.”
11.14.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass three pieces of legislation that will increase access to quality health care and better coordinate research for Type-II Diabetes and other autoimmune diseases. Rep. Peters is a co-sponsor of a bill passed by the House today to reauthorize Title VIII Nursing Workforce Development programs that provide support for nursing education programs, nurses, and nursing students. Rep. Peters has previously supported robust funding for Title VIII programs, which are the largest source of federal support for nursing education and provide grants, loans, and support to prepare students to meet the growing need for qualified nurses. Rep. Peters also helped pass the Improving Access to Maternity Care Act to place maternal health professionals in areas of need, and the National Clinical Care Commission Act, which will coordinate efforts across federal agencies to support treatment and research of autoimmune and metabolic disorders like Type 2 Diabetes. “Nurses are on the frontlines of health care providing essential and lifesaving care to millions of Americans every day,” said Rep. Peters. “Title VIII programs provide the grants and loans necessary to incentivize students to enter the nursing field and ensure they have the support they need as they advance in their careers. These bipartisan bills will expand access to quality care, improve patient outcomes, and ensure we meet the growing demand for qualified health professionals.”
10.27.2016	San Diego - Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement on the ongoing crisis regarding the recoupment of unauthorized bonus payments made to National Guard members: “I applaud yesterday’s decision from Secretary of Defense Ash Carter to cease the collection of unauthorized bonus payments. While a congressional fix may be needed, I urge Secretary Carter to use his existing authorities and resources to repay veterans and their families who have been wronged. “Top Republican and Democratic leadership on the House Armed Services Committee have agreed to and share my commitment to fixing this problem; we also agree that the National Defense Authorization Act, which we hope to finalize when we return to Washington next month, is the quickest and best way to provide a permanent fix. As a member of the conference committee working through the final version of the bill, I commit to our servicemembers, veterans, and their families that if a congressional fix is needed, we will make them whole and remove the burden of this mistake from their shoulders.”
10.24.2016	San Diego – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement on the report from the Los Angeles Times that widespread fraud and mismanagement has resulted in veterans of the California National Guard being asked to repay enlistment bonuses: "I am outraged to hear that servicemembers and veterans who bravely signed up to serve our country more than a decade ago are now being asked to repay their bonuses because of someone else’s mistake. It is our job to stand up for our veterans and their families and to protect them from financial hardship, not impose it upon them. I will be working with Rep. Susan Davis and my other colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee urgently when Congress returns to fix this problem. The burden of this mistake should not fall on our veterans and their families." Click here to read the letter Rep. Peters sent to House Leadership urging them to immediately address this issue when Congress returns.
10.21.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52), co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional Special Operations Forces Caucus, released the following statement on the death of Navy Chief Petty Officer Jason C. Finan, a Coronado-based Explosive Ordnance Disposal Technician who was killed outside Mosul, Iraq yesterday: “I offer my deepest condolences and prayers to the family and loved ones of Chief Petty Officer Jason Finan. I also offer my condolences to the entire Naval Special Warfare community, which is enduring the loss of another of its finest as it occupies the frontlines in the fight to destroy ISIS and preserve our freedom and security. “Chief Petty Officer Jason Finan is a hero who represents the best of San Diego, the best of our special operations community, and the best of America – he will not be forgotten.”
09.29.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night, the House passed U.S. Congressman Scott Peters’ (CA-52) amendment to the Water Resources Development Act that gives the Army Corps of Engineers the resources to evaluate the structural health of its current infrastructure and construction projects. By using structural health monitoring, the Army Corps can increase the resiliency of potentially vulnerable infrastructure before a disaster strikes, and be able to more quickly evaluate damage after a disaster. Congressman Peters joined a bipartisan majority in passing the bill, which also authorizes $20.2 million in initial federal funding for the Encinitas and Solana Beach Coastal Storm Damage Reduction Project and provides $170 million to repair water infrastructure in Flint, Michigan. “We know that for every dollar we spend on preparedness we save four dollars in disaster recovery costs, not to mention countless lives,” Rep. Peters said. “As the frequency and intensity of extreme weather events increase, it is smart to make sure our infrastructure is resilient in the event of a disaster. This amendment gives the Army Corps of Engineers, which builds and maintains much of our water infrastructure, the tools to enhance resiliency to floods, earthquakes, sea level rise, and other disasters.” The Water Resources Development Act, which decides water infrastructure projects and policy for the Army Corps of Engineers for the next two years, includes a provision allowing water supply and environmental projects to be deemed eligible for the Army Corps’ annual report to Congress, and therefore eligible for federal funding. Congressman Peters has long advocated for this change, which is a step in the right direction to get federal resources for a number of San Diego water recycling and security projects. Additionally, the bill allows the Port of San Diego to access more money from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund than it was previously allowed, enabling it to take better advantage of the money it contributes to the fund. The $20.2 million in initial federal funding for the Encinitas and Solana Beach Coastal Storm Damage Reduction Project will help reduce risks to public safety and commerce associated with bluff and beach erosion in that area of San Diego County. The bill also included a bipartisan compromise to allocate funding to address the water crisis in Flint, Michigan, something Rep. Peters has called for since visiting Flint in February. Click HERE or above to watch Rep. Peters speak in support of his amendment.
09.28.2016	Washington, D.C. – Tonight, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after voting to pass the FY17 Continuing Resolution, which funds the government until December 9, appropriates military construction and VA spending for the entire 2017 fiscal year including funding for construction at Marine Corps Air Station Miramar and the Coastal Campus on Coronado, and includes $1.1 billion in emergency Zika funds: “The funding authorized tonight for Zika will allow the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention to study the long-term health implications of birth defects caused by the virus and fund the National Institutes of Health to advance research on diagnostics and vaccines. I am disappointed Congress did not act to address Zika sooner as me and many of my colleagues have urged, but am glad to finally see these resources going where they are needed. “Tonight’s bill also ensures that military construction projects and the VA will be funded for the next year regardless of what happens in Congress. This is good news for the projects to build new hangars at MCAS Miramar and training facilities for Coronado’s Navy SEALs, which will give our military leaders the resources they need. “While this continuing resolution avoided a costly government shutdown, I look forward to returning to a more regular budgeting process that gives our military leaders and business community the certainty they need, cuts wasteful spending, and invests in expanding educational and economic opportunity in America.”
09.27.2016	Washington, D.C.– Yesterday, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass a series of bills to improve medical services at the Department of Veterans Affairs, including emergency and mental health care. These measures will improve the quality of treatment veterans receive at the VA and provide prompt access to emergency services when veterans need it most. “Our nation’s veterans shouldn’t have to jump over hurdles to receive quality and timely care,” said Rep. Peters. “Implementing data sharing and reporting requirements at the VA is just one way we can refocus the culture of care to ensure it serves the veteran, not the bureaucracy.” The Vet Connect Act would allow the Department of Veterans Affairs to share the medical records with other non-VA health care groups that provide medical treatment to veterans, including private entities and federal agencies. Currently, the VA is not allowed to share information with non-VA entities, even though veterans may seek care outside the VA system. The No Veterans Crisis Line Should Go Unanswered Act would improve the Veterans Crisis Line (VCL) by collecting data, including performance indicators and time frames to meet those objectives, to improve the effectiveness of the crisis hotline. The bill requires the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to develop a plan to ensure all calls are answered in a timely manner. The VA would be required to report the performance metric to Congress within 180 days of enactment. The Veterans Emergency Treatment (VET) Act would require all VA hospitals to comply with the Emergency Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA) of 1986, which says that any veteran who comes to a hospital’s emergency room and is enrolled in the VA health care system, must be stabilized and treated. While a 2007 Veterans Health Administration directive ensures veteran access to emergency care and VA adherence to EMTALA standards, this bill would further codify that requirement. “These bills are another step forward in keeping our promise to veterans and getting them the benefits they earned though their service,” said Rep. Peters. “The reforms improve veteran care and cut through red tape so we can better serve our nation’s heroes.” Last month, Rep. Peters helped pass another package of reforms to improve quality of care at the VA by holding poor performing or negligent VA employees accountable for their actions and increasing protections for whistleblowers that identify negligent or criminal behavior in a VA facility.
09.23.2016	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted to pass the Social Security Must Avert Identity Loss (MAIL) Act, which would require the Social Security Administration (SSA) to ensure documents sent by mail do not include a complete Social Security account number (SSN), unless deemed necessary by the Commissioner of Social Security. “Identity theft is one of the costliest crimes to consumers and businesses, and the fastest growing financial crime in the nation,” said Rep. Peters. “Americans are rightly concerned about the risks of identity theft—especially seniors, who are among the most vulnerable to scams and fraud.” Last year, the Social Security Administration sent out an estimated 233 million documents containing full social security numbers and over half of those letters are sent to inaccurate mailing addresses. While the SSA has taken steps to improve the accuracy of its address records, the MAIL Act would remove the risk of a full social security number being sent out and speed up the timeline for complete removal from all mailings. The SSA would also be required to report to Congress on the progress of removal every two years. “I’ve heard from seniors across San Diego that identity theft is one of their main concerns,” said Rep. Peters. “Our office has taken steps to address this by offering free workshops to give seniors the tools they need to protect themselves, but I know San Diego seniors will also be happy to see Congress taking bipartisan action as well.” This year, Rep. Peters’ office held six Senior Scam Workshops in San Diego with the California Contractors State License Board to give seniors the tools to protect themselves from fraud. Last year, Rep. Peters supported a bill requiring the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services to remove social security numbers from Medicare cards and followed up with a letter asking for a progress report on implementation.
09.15.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after voting against H.R. 5351: “I voted against this bill today because it is my firm belief that our top military leaders should decide how to deal with and where to house suspected terrorists—not Congress. A vote against this bill does not equate support for bringing suspected terrorists from Guantanamo Bay to the United States, which is already prohibited by law. This politically-motivated and reckless proposal would ban the transfer of detainees to any country.” “Any decision to transfer a detainee from Guantanamo Bay to another country must be vetted, under current law, by the Secretary of Defense, the Departments of Defense, State, Justice, and Homeland Security, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Director of National Intelligence. It is unwise to tie the hands of our strongest military and national security leaders at a time when we face new and dynamic threats around the globe.”
09.14.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted to pass the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act, a package of reforms to improve the quality of treatment veterans receive at the VA. The bill gives the Secretary of the VA more authority to fire poorly performing or convicted employees, reduces perks for senior VA employees, and increases protections for whistleblowers that identify negligent or criminal behavior in a VA facility. Congressman Peters worked across the aisle to cosponsor and pass similar legislation in July 2015; today’s bill is an updated version that is seen as having a better chance of passing the Senate and becoming law. After voting to pass H.R. 5620, Congressman Peters released the following statement: “Our veterans have earned access to timely, high-quality health care. Keeping this promise is not only a matter of resources; it also depends on changing the culture of the VA. From top to bottom, it has to be about serving the veteran, not the bureaucracy. “These reforms will ensure that poorly performing or negligent employees are held accountable for their actions and not allowed to lower the standard of service our veterans should expect. The improved whistleblower protections will also give more incentive for employees to call out careless or criminal behavior that we have unfortunately seen at VAs across the country. “I urge my colleagues in the Senate to pass this bill so the Secretary of the VA can implement it and continue the work of getting our veterans the care they have earned in service to our country.”
09.14.2016	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass a bipartisan bill to reauthorize and reform the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act and give students the skills they need to enter the workforce and excel in high-quality jobs. The Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act would update the Perkins Act to increase coordination of career and technical education (CTE) programs with academic standards established by the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) and the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA). "San Diego’s most important industries rely on a highly-skilled workforce and we need to prepare students to compete for the jobs of the future that are being created,” said Rep. Peters. “This much needed update will better align career and technical education programs with the evolving needs and challenges facing students, workers, and businesses.” Created in 1984, the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act provides federal support for state and local career and technical education programs. These state-run programs offer both hands-on training and classroom instruction in fields ranging from computer science to law enforcement. “In today’s global economy, it’s crucial to establish effective job training programs that expand economic opportunity and help Americans who do not choose to pursue a four-year degree develop the skills to compete,” Rep. Peters concluded. Other modifications include requiring performance indicators like graduation rates to assess CTE programs, emphasis on programs that meet in-demand industries, and incentives for businesses to engage with schools and colleges.
09.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass the Better On-Line Ticket Sales (BOTS) Act, which would ban the use of ticket bot software that allows individuals to circumvent purchase limits in online ticket systems, purchase tickets in bulk, and then resell them on third-party sites like Stubhub at extreme markups. The bill would also make it illegal to resell tickets acquired with this type of software. This practice often causes tickets for events to sell out at artificially high rates and has contributed to the rise in third party ticket prices for sporting events and shows. “Resales and scalping have evolved into a separate and thriving industry that forces the public to buy tickets at many times their face value,” said Rep. Peters. “This fix will protect consumers from unfair and deceptive practices by third party sellers and ensure that families have better access to face value tickets and are less likely to be barred from attending a performance because of price.” "Arts organizations are constantly trying to keep ticket prices accessible, and ticket bots are a major obstacle for patrons,” said Michael S. Rosenberg, Managing Director of the La Jolla Playhouse. “We are proud to join Congressman Scott Peters in his effort to abolish this unfair practice that deeply hurts audiences, artists and cultural institutions alike." Ticket bots are already illegal in 14 states, including California, and their use is subject to civil penalties. The BOTS Act would expand penalties for software users to include fines of up to $25,000 and allow victims of ticket fraud to bring civil action against sellers in a United States district court to recover damages.
09.11.2016	Today U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement on the 15th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks: “Like so many others, I remember exactly where I was the morning of September 11th. I remember being with my family, and watching as first responders ran towards the danger, entered the towers before they crumbled, and dug through rubble for days afterwards to save lives. “15 years later, we remember the thousands of lives lost and countless forever changed. We honor the bravery of those first responders, and that of the men and women who signed up to serve in the weeks and months that followed. Today, I am thankful for their sacrifice, and for the courage of our special operators who killed Osama Bin Laden and exacted justice on behalf of a grateful nation. America’s greatness is built upon their sacrifice and heroism. “15 years later, we remember that as we mourned, the world mourned with us. And that America’s ability to promote peace and prosperity around the world depends not only on having the most formidable military in the world, but also on our rejection of hate and commitment to strong diplomacy.”
09.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass legislation that strongly condemns recent ballistic missile tests by North Korea and reaffirms the importance of our trilateral relationship with South Korea and Japan in containing North Korean aggression. The measure supports the use of joint military exercises to enhance security in the region and also backs the expansion of intelligence sharing and diplomatic cooperation to hold North Korea accountable for its development of ballistic missiles and human rights violations. “North Korea’s testing of ballistic missiles is absolutely unacceptable; it poses a real threat to the United States, to our allies, and to peace and stability in Asia,” Rep Peters said. “Working with our regional partners is central to a targeted, tough strategy to curb North Korean aggression and hold it accountable for its actions.” Congressman Peters also supported passage of three additional pieces of legislation to enhance U.S. diplomacy. The Education for All Act supports United States Agency for International Development (USAID) programs to expand educational opportunities around the world. The Digital GAP Act works to promote Internet access in developing countries by calling for the inclusion of broadband in infrastructure projects. And the AGOA Enhancement Act requires the president to enhance awareness of the African Growth and Opportunity Act, which allows the United States to provide trade preference to sub-Saharan African countries that are working to establish a market based economy and uphold human rights standards. Rep. Peters concluded, “America’s ability to promote peace and prosperity across the world depends not only on our military strength, but also on smart diplomacy and economic leadership.
09.07.2016	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass the Gold Star Families Voices Act to allow immediate family members of fallen servicemembers to contribute to the Library of Congress Veterans History Project, a digital archive of personal accounts from American war veterans. Previously, only living veterans were able to tell their stories for the archive. “The Veterans History Project is a chance for generations of veterans to share their accounts of fighting for our freedom around the world,” said Rep. Peters. “Including Gold Star Families ensures that we record the stories of those that have given the ultimate sacrifice in service to our nation. With more than 240,000 veterans residing in San Diego, it’s not only an important part of our nation’s history, but our region’s as well." In 2014, Rep. Peters launched the Veterans History Project for his district aboard the USS Midway Museum. Since then, his staff has done interviews with dozens of San Diego veterans and contributed them to the Library of Congress Veterans History Project to be preserved. The Veterans History Project is one of the many ways Rep. Peters honors local veterans and San Diego’s proud role in the national defense. Rep. Peters concluded, “It’s been an honor to work with our local veterans to preserve their stories. No one has given more to their country than Gold Star families, and our history should reflect that sacrifice.” For more information, interested veterans and their families can call Rep. Peters' office at (858) 455-5550 or sign up through his website by visiting http://scottpeters.house.gov/contact-me/sign-up-veterans-history. Congressman Peters serves the 52nd District of California which covers much of central San Diego County including Poway, Coronado, and large portions of the City of San Diego. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and House Judiciary Committee. The Congressman is a former environmental attorney, City Council President, and Port Commission Chairman.
09.06.2016	Today U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement on the Zika case and preventive spraying in Mount Hope and the urgent need for bipartisan Congressional action to confront the threat of the Zika virus: “The news of a Zika case in San Diego and the preventive spraying for mosquitos in Mount Hope bring home a reality we have known for months: the Zika virus is an urgent public health crisis that requires serious and deliberate action to keep American families safe. I am grateful for the leadership of county and city health officials in responding to this case and acting to prevent the spread of the virus in San Diego. “In July, Congress went on its longest summer break in decades, without sending a bill to the President’s desk to address Zika. Now, seven weeks later, we are back in Washington with seemingly no progress towards a bipartisan solution. Instead, we will reportedly be voting on impeaching the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service and punishing Democrats, myself included, for livestreaming a protest calling for a vote to curb gun violence. “Instead of trying to score political points, Congress should be providing the robust funding and support needed to accelerate a cure and prevent the spread of the Zika virus.”
09.03.2016	San Diego – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) issued their final decision on the Southern California Metroplex Project: “The Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) announcement to keep current flight paths is a great example of what we can achieve when we work together to address the concerns of San Diego’s community. Thanks to the local leaders and elected officials who joined me in this effort to reduce airplane noise, many of the potential effects anticipated by residents will be prevented. This process has shown an unsettling lack of transparency in the FAA, so I will continue to improve its relationship with our community. San Diegans should feel like their government is listening to them and today's announcement is a step forward in restoring that trust. In December, I helped pass a bill that would require the FAA to update its community involvement manual and implementation plan to take a more proactive role in engaging communities affected by new departure and arrival procedures. I appreciate the FAA and Administrator Huerta’s willingness to work to address these issues and hope we can continue our partnership, as there is more work to be done Today’s decision is another step forward in retaining the quality of life that we have here in San Diego. I will continue to work with our community, the FAA, and San Diego Airport Authority to ensure that moving forward, aircrafts adhere to the agreed upon flight paths that protect our neighborhoods.” Congressman Peters serves the 52nd District of California which covers much of central San Diego County including Poway, Coronado, and large portions of the City of San Diego. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and House Judiciary Committee. The Congressman is a former environmental attorney, City Council President, and Port Commission Chairman.
08.31.2016	San Diego – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced recent staff hires, promotions, and departures in both his San Diego and Washington, D.C. offices, including the addition of a Marine veteran to the San Diego office. “We have an exceptional staff and I’m very proud of the young people who work for me and then go on to become leaders in our region as many who worked for me at City Hall have done. They are all bright, emerging leaders with a strong commitment to public service.” Last month, Hugo Carmona, who served as the San Diego office Deputy District Director, accepted a position as Manager of Government Relations with Cox Communications. Sarah March, who served as the San Diego Scheduler and veterans caseworker, joined the Department of Veterans Affairs in Mission Valley as a Veterans Service Representative. Both served in Rep. Peters’ office since he took office in 2013. “I’m very grateful for the contributions Hugo and Sarah made to our team and for their service to my constituents. As original members of our San Diego office, they were instrumental in building a foundation for success in our first few years,” said Rep. Peters. “Hugo first worked for me at City Hall and I was lucky to have him work for me again in my congressional office and Sarah will be a tremendous asset to the Mission Valley VA.” Marine veteran Charles Romeo joined the San Diego office in July through the Wounded Warrior fellowship program. Charles took over Sarah’s veterans’ portfolio in San Diego. He is a United States Marine Corps veteran who has a Bachelor of Science in Social Psychology as well as a Masters of Social Work from the University of Southern California. Robert Phillpott, who has been working part time, moved to full time and assumed Sarah’s scheduling and office management responsibilities. Howard Ou, who joined Peters’ congressional staff after working on his 2014 re-election campaign, departed the San Diego office after being selected as a Congressional Fellow by Rep. Judy Chu (CA-27) and the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC) through the Asian Pacific American Institute of Congressional Studies. He will join Rep. Chu’s Washington, D.C. staff next month. “Howard has been a wonderful liaison between the Asian Pacific American community and our office; I know he’ll take that same knowledge and passion to his new position,” said Rep. Peters. Anthony Nguyen, who began working for Peters in early 2013, left the Washington, D.C. office to return to the San Diego office where he was promoted to Director of Constituent Services. Taylor Deisinger is departing the Washington, D.C. office, where she served as Staff Assistant, for a new position with the Department of Justice. “Anthony helped champion policies to support San Diego’s healthcare, AAPI, and senior communities while in D.C. He brings a well-rounded experience to his new role.” “Taylor’s role is one of the most critical to our constituent service work in D.C. and she’s been a terrific ambassador. I wish her a rewarding career in law enforcement.” Congressman Peters serves the 52nd District of California which covers much of central San Diego County including Poway, Coronado, and large portions of the City of San Diego. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and House Judiciary Committee. The Congressman is a former environmental attorney, City Council President, and Port Commission Chairman.
08.22.2016	San Diego – Today, Rep. Scott Peters announced his office has helped recover more than $2 million in federal benefits owed to San Diegans. Rep. Peters and his San Diego staff have helped more than 2,000 constituents retrieve backlogged funds ranging from veterans and military benefits, to Social Security and Medicare payments. The benefits recovered include almost $1.3 million in benefits earned by veterans, $268,000 in Social Security payments for San Diego seniors, and more than $200,000 from the Internal Revenue Service. “One of my most important jobs is helping San Diegans navigate the federal bureaucracy," said Rep. Peters. “We can help cut through red tape to get San Diegans answers and the benefits they have earned. Many people aren’t aware of the numerous services that are available through their Congressional office, but we want to make sure San Diegians know we’re here to serve them.” Rep. Peters made the announcement at a press conference, where he was joined by San Diegians he has helped: “I am deeply satisfied with the help from Congressman Scott Peters’ office,” said Curtis Dietrich, a U.S. Army veteran who served in Operation Iraqi Freedom and now lives in Scripps Ranch. Curtis contacted Rep. Peters’ office after spending over a year trying to sort out a discrepancy in his disability benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs. “His staff worked with the VA after they were not happy with the initial response and even expedited my claim. His team is truly for the American veteran.” Rep. Peters’ office was able to work with the VA to reinstate his payments and recover $15,000 in overdue payments. “Congressman Peters was amazing in resolving a major error in my Social Security retirement benefits,” said Leonard Molnar, who contacted Rep. Peters’ office after the Social Security Administration sent him a letter asking for payments he didn’t understand. “They were extra timely in getting the job done. I am very happy and grateful to his team.” “Congressman Peters helped me receive both my Social Security and Medicare benefits after my case documents were lost in the system,” said Fernando Prado, who contacted Rep. Peters’ office after spending two years working with the Social Security Administration. “After Congressman Peters got involved, I received by benefits in just a few weeks.” Together, Leonard and Fernando of Coronado had almost $12,000 in benefits recovered. Rep. Peters is joined by Fernando Prado, Leonard Molnar and Curtis Dietrich, who shared stories of how Rep. Peters’ office helped them recover the benefits they were owed. Rep. Peters livestreamed the press conference on Periscope. To watch visit here: https://www.periscope.tv/RepScottPeters/1yoJMloogQwGQ. Residents of the 52nd district having trouble getting an answer from a federal agency regarding Social Security, Medicare, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the IRS, or Immigration Services, or who feel that they've been treated unfairly, should contact Rep. Peters' office at (858) 455-5550.
08.10.2016	Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) gathered local leaders to announce how San Diego’s homeless service providers and elected leaders are working together to make the best case for San Diego to get more of its fair share of federal homelessness resources. After a breakthrough announced by Congressman Peters last month, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is seeking feedback on four options to replace an existing, outdated formula that is used to distribute homelessness resources and has disadvantaged San Diego. “Ending homelessness in San Diego is a bold goal that can only be achieved if we receive our fair share of resources,” Rep. Peters said. “These four options take into account a number of factors, from poverty to the availability and affordability of housing and rentals, which better measure a city’s need and how hard it is for a struggling family to find a place to live. As important a step as the reopening of the formula is, there is still a lot of work ahead. Now, we must work together to prepare a response to HUD that demonstrates our expertise and gives us a formula that works for everyone.” Service organizations, housing providers, and local leaders have the opportunity to weigh in on the potential replacements for the formula during the public comment period that opened on July 21st and lasts 60 days. Congressman Peters was joined today by Mayor Kevin Faulconer, Councilmember Todd Gloria, Chairman of the County Board of Supervisors Ron Roberts, former Mayor and current President and CEO of the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce Jerry Sanders, and Bill Bolstad of Father Joe’s Villages to demonstrate how San Diego is working collaboratively to respond to HUD and take advantage of this opportunity to bring additional resources to San Diego to help the homeless. “I thank Congressman Scott Peters for his leadership on having the formula for homeless program funding reevaluated to give San Diego a chance to get our fair share of federal resources,” said Councilmember Todd Gloria. “San Diego has made progress in adopting best practices locally to end homelessness, and an updated formula that allocates funding based on need is critical to our success. It is vital that our region’s agencies coordinate to put the best recommendation forward and I commit to collaborating in that effort through the Regional Continuum of Care Council.” Congressman Peters first contacted HUD about the formula in March of 2013 after a report found that in 2012, despite having the third largest homeless population in the country, San Diego received the 18th highest level of federal homelessness funding. Timeline of Congressman Peters’ advocacy to change the funding formula: March 2013: Sent a letter to then-HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan advocating for an update to the Continuum of Care funding formula November 2013: Sent letter with Representatives Vargas (CA-51) and Davis (CA-53) asking for a comment period to make revisions to the funding formula September 2014: Sent letter to HUD Secretary Castro advocating for a funding formula update January 2015: Met, and advocated for an update to the funding formula, with Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs Chris O’Connor when Assistant Secretary O’Connor was in San Diego for the annual WeAllCount February 2015: Call with officials from HUD and the Department of Veterans Affairs to discuss ending veterans homelessness and revising the outdated federal funding formula May 2015: Met with Secretary Castro on Capitol Hill to discuss the funding formula disparity and to advocate for an update, and the chance for San Diego input on the process June 2015: Had a call with Secretary Castro to continue advocating for an update to the funding formula October 2015: During a visit to San Diego, Secretary Castro announced his intention to reopen public comment on the funding formula February 2016: Sponsored an amendment to H.R. 3700 requiring the HUD Secretary to reopen the public comment period on the Continuum of Care funding formula. May 2016: Announced commitment from Secretary Castro to reopen public comment period on formula no later than June 21st. June 2016: Spoke with Secretary Castro about his plan to provide detailed approaches to replace the formula by mid-July. July 2016: Announced the opening of the public comment period on four potential replacements for the formula.
07.29.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement on the shooting of two San Diego Police Department officers in Southcrest late last night that resulted in the death of an officer: “The loss of one of our police officers is a loss for all of San Diego. I send my deepest condolences to the officer's family and loved ones, and prayers for the full recovery of the wounded officer. From my time on City Council I have been aware of the dangers our police officers face and I'm tremendously grateful to them for the risks they take every day to keep our communities safe. San Diego is fortunate to have the steady leadership of Chief Zimmerman in this difficult time.”
07.21.2016	In a critical breakthrough more than three years in the making, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced today that the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is considering four options to replace the Continuum of Care formula that determines how federal homelessness funding is allocated. A public comment period opening today and lasting 60 days will give service organizations, housing providers, and local leaders the opportunity to weigh in on the potential replacements for the existing, outdated formula that has severely disadvantaged cities like San Diego in their work to end homelessness. The four replacement options take into account a number of indicators that better determine a city’s need for resources such as homeless population, poverty, and the availability and affordability of housing. HUD has also developed an interactive and comparative tool in order for stakeholders and the general public to analyze how each option affects a community's future funding. “Helping the homeless is a challenge for San Diego and many other cities across the country,” Rep. Peters said. “I have been committed to fixing this broken formula to ensure that every community receives their fair share of resources to get people off of the streets and into permanent housing. I thank Secretary Castro and his staff for hearing our concerns, visiting San Diego, and putting forward these options to find a more equitable way to distribute federal homelessness resources. Now it is time for San Diego to make the best possible case for the solution that best serves our region’s work to end homelessness.” Congressman Peters first contacted HUD about the formula in March of 2013 after a report found that in 2012, despite having the third largest homeless population in the country, San Diego received the 18th highest level of federal homelessness funding. In the more than three years since, Rep. Peters has worked with HUD Secretary Julián Castro, former HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan, and staff from HUD and the Department of Veterans Affairs on opening a public comment period on the existing formula. Last month Rep. Peters praised HUD’s plan to go beyond that request and seek input on specific replacements, a process which begins today. "Every person deserves a safe, stable place to call home,” said Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Julián Castro. “In high-cost cities like San Diego, that is an urgent challenge in this time of limited resources. That's why we're working to improve our funding formula to better target the root causes of homelessness. I thank Congressman Peters for his leadership on this issue and continued partnership as we work to finally end homelessness." “HUD’s commitment to reevaluate the decades old formula for distribution of federal funding for homelessness is a critical step for the City of San Diego in our fight to end homelessness by making vital funding available to provide the housing and services necessary to reach our goal,” said Councilmember Todd Gloria, Chair of the Regional Continuum of Care Council, which directs federal funding for the region’s homeless programs. “I commend Congressman Scott Peters for his extraordinary advocacy in making sure San Diego gets its fair share of federal funds for homelessness programs and appreciate Secretary Julian Castro’s leadership.” In anticipation of the comment period reopening, Rep. Peters and his staff have worked with San Diego’s service organizations, housing providers, and local leaders to educate the community on the federal funding formula and the importance of collaborative input. Rep. Peters is now calling on them to make the best possible case for the solution that best serves our region’s work to end homelessness. Timeline of Congressman Peters’ advocacy to change the funding formula: March 2013: Sent a letter to then-HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan advocating for an update to the Continuum of Care funding formula November 2013: Sent letter with Representatives Vargas (CA-51) and Davis (CA-53) asking for a comment period to make revisions to the funding formula September 2014: Sent letter to HUD Secretary Castro advocating for a funding formula update January 2015: Met, and advocated for an update to the funding formula, with Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs Chris O’Connor when Assistant Secretary O’Connor was in San Diego for the annual WeAllCount February 2015: Call with officials from HUD and the Department of Veterans Affairs to discuss ending veterans homelessness and revising the outdated federal funding formula May 2015: Met with Secretary Castro on Capitol Hill to discuss the funding formula disparity and to advocate for an update, and the chance for San Diego input on the process June 2015: Had a call with Secretary Castro to continue advocating for an update to the funding formula October 2015: During a visit to San Diego, Secretary Castro announced his intention to reopen public comment on the funding formula February 2016: Sponsored an amendment to H.R. 3700 requiring the HUD Secretary to reopen the public comment period on the Continuum of Care funding formula. May 2016: Announced commitment from Secretary Castro to reopen public comment period on formula no later than June 21st. June 2016: Spoke with Secretary Castro about his plan to provide detailed approaches to replace the formula by mid-July.
07.14.2016	Yesterday and today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted against three reckless proposals that would undermine the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) with Iran and clear the path for Iran – one of our most dangerous threats – to obtain a nuclear weapon. All three bills were highly partisan and sent straight to the House floor for an up-or-down vote without the opportunity for members to offer amendments. “The proposals put forward this week by Republicans were broad, reckless, highly partisan, and would reopen the door to Iranian nuclear proliferation,” said Rep. Peters. “They would make Americans less safe and undermine our global leadership at a time when we face new and dynamic threats. Instead of voting on proposals that will never pass the Senate and become law, we should be working on tough, smart, targeted bipartisan legislation that holds Iran accountable for its sponsorship of terror and development of conventional weapons.” Congressman Peters announced his support for the Iran nuclear agreement last year in an opinion editorial in the San Diego Union Tribune and in a news conference on August 28th where he was joined by military leaders and combat veterans who do not want to see America engulfed in another protracted war. By JCPOA implementation day in January Iran had decreased its number of centrifuges from 19,000 to about 6,000 and cut down its stockpile of low-enriched uranium from 10,000kg to 300kg.
07.13.2016	This week, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass a number of bipartisan bills that will simplify the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), require colleges to be more transparent about the full cost of attending their institution, and expand access to financial counseling for students and families. All three of these proposals match goals laid out in Rep. Peters’ Education Plan to Expand Opportunity and Drive Economic Growth, which he released during a speech to UCSD students in February. “Our students need access to affordable higher education opportunities that will give them the skills to compete for the jobs of the future,” Rep. Peters said. “These bipartisan measures will simplify the process of applying for federal aid and give students and their families the resources to better understand college costs. But there is more work to be done to reduce college costs and the burden of student loan debt, and I will keep working to make a quality college education affordable for the middle class again.” Rep. Peters also supported passage of the Accessing Higher Education Opportunities Act, which expands grant opportunities for Hispanic-serving institutions like San Diego State University and the San Diego Community College District. Specifically it will increase education opportunities for Hispanic-Americans by allowing grants to be used to conduct counseling and expand the enrollment of high school students in dual or concurrent enrollment programs to get college credit. Rep. Peters continued, “This will give San Diego State and our community colleges greater flexibility in using federal resources to serve our Latino community. Opportunities like getting college credit as a high schooler can reduce the cost of a college education and better prepare students for the workforce.”
07.12.2016	Last night, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass a series of smart, targeted proposals to combat the illicit financing of terrorist groups, arms and drug trafficking, and underground nuclear proliferation. These measures will enhance the Treasury Department’s ability crack down on illegal financial activities used to finance terrorist groups or weapons trafficking. Last week, Rep. Peters offered a proposal that would have increased funding for the Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence, which works with law enforcement, diplomats, and other intelligence agencies and with the private sector and foreign governments to identify and eliminate sources of financing for terrorist networks. During his remarks in support of his proposal Rep. Peters urged the House to bring up and pass HR 5594, which creates a coordinated, government-wide strategy to combat terrorist financing; it was among the bills he voted to pass last night. “Even as our military kills their leaders, destroys their safe-havens, and takes back their territory, the threat from groups like ISIS will not be eliminated until we remove their ability to direct and finance terrorist attacks in the west,” Rep. Peters said. “These measures, including one that I urged the House to pass just last week, will make it harder for terrorists to acquire the resources to pay, train, transport, and equip foreign fighters to carry out attacks. By hitting terrorists where it hurts – their wallets – this will make Americans safer.” The other pieces of legislation Rep. Peters helped pass were HR 5602, the No IMF Laundering Act, and the Enhancing Treasury’s Anti-Terror Tools Act.
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) was recognized for his national security leadership and named by the Democratic Leader to the conference committee for the National Defense Authorization Act. The conference committee is made up of Republicans and Democrats selected by their parties to negotiate any differences between the House and Senate versions and develop final language for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which lays out defense spending and priorities for the 2017 fiscal year. This committee is the final step for the defense policy bill before it receives an up-or-down vote in each house and is sent to the President for his signature. “I have fought in the Armed Services Committee and before the full House of Representatives for changes to the defense policy bill that will provide our military leaders in San Diego and across the country with the tools and technology they need to equip a 21st century force,” said Rep. Peters. “As a member of the conference committee I will push for a smart, tough national security strategy that keeps Americans safe and supports our servicemembers as they confront the new and dynamic threats around the world. I look forward to working with members from both parties and from the House and the Senate on these priorities and to put forward a strong national defense policy for the coming year.” When the NDAA was considered by the House Armed Services Committee, Rep. Peters was credited with leading bipartisan victories for energy security in the military. Rep. Peters continued this advocacy when the legislation was put in front of the House, and also successfully passed an amendment that will encourage the hiring of more veterans for military construction projects. This marks the first time that Rep. Peters has been named to the conference committee for the National Defense Authorization Act. Congressman Peters serves the 52nd District of California which covers much of central San Diego County including Poway, Coronado, and large portions of the City of San Diego. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and House Judiciary Committee. The Congressman is a former environmental attorney, City Council President, and Port Commission Chairman.
07.08.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement on the brutal murder of five police officers in Dallas, Texas and the tragic deaths of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile: “The vicious and deliberate attack on public safety officers in Dallas last night was unconscionable. That it occurred while men, women and children were engaged in a righteous and peaceful protest against the senseless killing of two men this week made it even more horrible. I am so sad for the families of these officers and for the people of Dallas, just as I am for the families of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile, whose deaths were equally tragic. "As tragic and wrong as the deaths of Sterling and Castile were, violence against law enforcement officers who risk their lives every day cannot be tolerated and is never justified. “I will work to pass laws that will help protect our citizens and our first responders. But I’m aware that our divisions will not be healed by laws alone, but by love for one another. Our national conversation is not just legal – it’s moral. “I support all my friends in law enforcement today, and I send sincere condolences to the families of all those whose lives were lost senselessly over the past few days.”
07.06.2016	Last night, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted to pass two bills that will expand access to capital for small businesses. The Supporting Americas Innovators Act will double the number of investors, including angel investors, who can form a venture capital fund to invest in a small business. The second, the Fix Crowdfunding Act, will reduce red tape for entrepreneurs using crowdfunding and increase the ways an investor can participate in crowdfunding. Both measures passed the House of Representatives on broadly bipartisan votes and will now be considered by the Senate. “San Diego’s talented workforce and innovative culture have made it an attractive destination to launch a startup, but one of the biggest barriers our small business owners still face is access to capital,” Rep Peters said. “This pair of proposals modernizes how we look at angel investing and crowdfunding and will allow people trying to launch a small business to seek out more investors to support their emerging businesses. San Diego’s startup community is creating high-quality jobs and driving economic growth, and I will continue working with them to make San Diego a more competitive place to do business.” For the last three years, Rep. Peters has led or supported the resolution to designate National Entrepreneurs Day and recognize the men and women who drive innovation and economic growth in San Diego and across the country. As a member of the pro-growth New Democrat coalition, Rep. Peters has called for reforming our broken tax code and immigration system to increase American competitiveness and support small business growth.
07.01.2016	Los Angeles– Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) welcomed Taiwan’s 14th president, Tsai Ing-Wen, to the United States at a private breakfast with other members of Congress in Los Angeles. President Tsai was elected in January and is the first woman to serve in the role. Congressman Peters and President Tsai spoke about the Asian-American community in Peters' district in San Diego and the importance of strong relations between Taiwan and the United States. Peters also attended a dinner last night where he was honored to be invited to speak and extend a welcome to President Tsai in front of hundreds of attendees from San Diego, Los Angeles and from throughout California. “It was an honor to meet President Tsai and welcome her to the United States on behalf of San Diego and be a part of the dialogue to maintain peace and stability in the West Pacific," said Rep. Peters, an active member of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus. “San Diego is home to a robust Asian American and Pacific Islander population, many of who are of Taiwanese descent. In the last two decades, Taiwan has emerged as an effective democracy and important partner in the Pacific, and I look forward to continuing to support that partnership in Congress,” said Peters who added that meeting President Tsai had special significance because he has two AAPI staff members who were born in Taiwan. Rep. Scott Peters pictured with President Tsai Ing-Wen of Taiwan. Last month, Rep. Peters helped pass the Reaffirming the Taiwan Relations Act, which reestablishes United States support for the Taiwan Relations Act and the Six Assurances—the cornerstone of United States relations with Taiwan. Since 1979, the Taiwan Relations Act has authorized commercial and cultural relations between the United States and Taiwan, despite no diplomatic ties between the two countries, as a way to foster peace and stability in the Western Pacific. Congressman Peters serves the 52nd District of California which covers much of central San Diego County including Poway, Coronado, and large portions of the City of San Diego. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and House Judiciary Committee. The Congressman is a former environmental attorney, City Council President, and Port Commission Chairman.
06.22.2016	Late yesterday evening, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) spoke with Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Julián Castro about progress on updating the Continuum of Care formula that determines how federal homelessness funding is allocated. Secretary Castro indicated that the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) will put forward a proposal in mid-July that goes beyond Rep. Peters’ initial request of reopening the public comment period on the existing formula. Stressing the need for a long term solution, HUD will be seeking comments on specific approaches to modernize the formula. The replacements take into account a number of indicators that better measure a city’s need for resources to address homelessness. HUD will also include an interactive and comparative tool in order for stakeholders and the general public to analyze how each option affects a community's future funding. "For years I've urged HUD to simply reopen the existing, outdated formula; the plan Secretary Castro laid out today goes beyond that,” Rep. Peters said, “Once this proposal is finalized, we can examine each of these options and determine which will result in the best method to allocate resources to address homelessness. I am grateful for Secretary Castro’s dedication to fixing this formula and to finding a more equitable way to distribute federal homelessness resources.” Rep. Peters has been fighting for three years to change the formula, which severely disadvantages cities like San Diego and is a significant barrier to the city’s efforts to help the homeless. In 2014, despite having the fifth largest homeless population in the country, San Diego received the 23rd highest level of federal homelessness funding. During today’s call, Sec. Castro thanked Rep. Peters for his continued efforts in ensuring San Diego and cities across the country receive their fair share of funding to end homelessness. In anticipation of the comment period reopening, Rep. Peters has worked with San Diego’s service organizations, housing providers, and local leaders to educate the community on the federal funding formula and the importance of collaborative input. Timeline of Congressman Peters’ advocacy to change the funding formula: March 2013: Sent a letter to then-HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan advocating for an update to the Continuum of Care funding formula November 2013: Sent letter with Representatives Vargas (CA-51) and Davis (CA-53) asking for a comment period to make revisions to the funding formula September 2014: Sent letter to HUD Secretary Castro advocating for a funding formula update January 2015: Met, and advocated for an update to the funding formula, with Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs Chris O’Connor when Assistant Secretary O’Connor was in San Diego for the annual WeAllCount February 2015: Call with officials from HUD and the Department of Veterans Affairs to discuss ending veterans homelessness and revising the outdated federal funding formula May 2015: Met with Secretary Castro on Capitol Hill to discuss the funding formula disparity and to advocate for an update, and the chance for San Diego input on the process June 2015: Had a call with Secretary Castro to continue advocating for an update to the funding formula October 2015: During a visit to San Diego, Secretary Castro announced his intention to reopen public comment on the funding formula February 2016: Sponsored an amendment to H.R. 3700 requiring the HUD Secretary to reopen the public comment period on the Continuum of Care funding formula. May 2016: Announced commitment from Secretary Castro to reopen public comment period on formula no later than June 21st. June 2016: Spoke with Secretary Castro about his plan to provide detailed approaches to replace the formula by mid-July.
06.16.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted to pass the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, which allocates all defense spending for the 2017 fiscal year including funding for military personnel, operations and maintenance, procurement, and research and development. The bill included a $6.4 billion boost to address military readiness shortfalls as well as $880 million to train and equip local forces to fight ISIS in Iraq and Syria. Congressman Peters fought for a number of provisions included in the bill including funding for the construction of three Littoral Combat Ships, which will be based in San Diego, as well as increased resources for military research conducted in San Diego. “As we counter aggression from states like China and Iran, and work to defeat threats from ISIS and Al Qaeda, we need a strong military and a smart national defense strategy to keep Americans safe,” Rep. Peters said. “From visiting special operations bases around the country, sitting on the House Armed Services Readiness Subcommittee, and speaking with San Diego military leaders, I have seen first-hand how sequester-level spending can require our servicemembers to rely on outdated technology and unreliable equipment. That is an unacceptable risk for our servicemembers and our security; this additional funding will improve our military’s readiness and ability to respond to threats around the world and help give our soldiers, sailors, and Marines the resources they need to carry out their missions safely and effectively.” Congressman Peters also supported passage of the Countering Terrorist Radicalization Act, which will strengthen partnerships between the Department of Homeland Security and local law enforcement agencies to better protect against homegrown and lone-wolf terrorism. Rep. Peters continued, “The American people deserve a response to the horrific attack in Orlando that includes countering homegrown terrorism, confronting hate and discrimination against the LGBT community, and stopping suspected terrorists, criminals, and domestic abusers from purchasing firearms. Today we took bipartisan steps to keep Americans safe, but I am frustrated to be leaving town without even a vote to close the loophole that allows suspected terrorists to legally purchase firearms.”
06.12.2016	San Diego – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement on the shooting at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida early this morning: “My heart is breaking for the victims of this brutal attack, and for their families. I offer my thanks to the brave first responders and law enforcement officers who ran into danger to put an end to the slaughter and help the victims. “Without knowing the motive or all of the details, an act of violence this massive shakes us all to our cores. To think that this could have been targeted at Orlando’s LGBT community, that the largest mass shooting in our history is also a hate crime, is horrifying. “Confronting individual threats within our borders is one of the most difficult security challenges we face. As we come to know exactly what led to this attack, I pray that my colleagues and I can come together finally to take decisive steps to prevent criminals and suspected terrorists from obtaining weapons of war and keep all Americans safe.”
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) continued his work to advance a tough, smart national security strategy by helping to pass the Intelligence Authorization Act. This legislation authorizes funding for intelligence programs from the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), the National Security Agency (NSA) and Navy Intelligence that are crucial to fighting the war on terror. Rep. Peters released the following statement after voting in favor of the bill, which passed on a bipartisan 371-35 vote: “Strong intelligence operations are a crucial component of a smart national security strategy that keeps Americans safe at home and counters new and dynamic threats across the world. Just last week we saw the importance of a robust intelligence network when a successful American drone strike in Pakistan killed Mullah Mansour, the leader of the Taliban. “With the clear threat posed to Europe and the United States by fighters traveling to ISIS-controlled territory and then returning home, today’s proposal includes measures to ensure we are tracking the flow of foreign fighters from known terrorist training camps. And by working to prevent cyberattacks at ports like the Port of San Diego that would devastate our economy, this legislation takes a targeted approach to safeguarding our security and our prosperity.” Congressman Peters serves the 52nd District of California which covers much of central San Diego County including Poway, Coronado, and large portions of the City of San Diego. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and House Judiciary Committee. The Congressman is a former environmental attorney, City Council President, and Port Commission Chairman.
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52), a formal environmental lawyer, helped pass the largest overhaul in national chemical safety laws in 40 years. The Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) Modernization Act updates an outdated and broken law that has been panned by business and environmental groups alike and is largely blamed for preventing the ban of dangerous chemicals like asbestos. The proposal passed today empowers the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to better test for and ban potentially harmful chemicals in consumer products, while streamlining the process to give industry more certainty when they are trying to take a product to market. Peters’ first job out of college was as an economist in the Office of Toxic Substances at the EPA. After voting in favor of the bill, which passed on a broadly bipartisan 403-12 vote, Rep. Peters released the following statement: “My first job after graduating college was working as an economist at the EPA’s Office of Toxic Substances, created under TSCA. Then, and throughout my career as an environmental lawyer, I saw firsthand how our flawed toxic chemical laws endangered public health and subjected business owners to a patchwork of regulatory systems. “Parents should not have to worry that the materials used to build their home or make their clothes are putting their family’s health at risk. By requiring affirmative proof that a substance is safe before it enters the market, this measure puts public health first. Under a more transparent and effective system, the EPA will be able to immediately take action to test chemicals that are common in our lives and known to be dangerous to our health. “In a Congress that has been gridlocked and unable to even pass a budget, I am glad to see members from both parties come together to negotiate this proposal to protect public health. We didn’t get everything we want, but that is how compromise works, and the American public will be better off because of it.” Key provisions of the bill include: Preserving California’s Proposition 65 warning and labeling law to notify Californians about dangerous amounts of chemicals in products; Requiring the EPA to evaluate new and existing chemicals against a new risk-based safety standard that includes an emphasis on protecting vulnerable populations like children and pregnant women; Establishing clear and enforceable deadlines to ensure the timely review of chemicals and timely action on identified risks; Prioritizing action on some of the most dangerous chemicals that are persistent, bioaccumulative, and toxic. Congressman Peters serves the 52nd District of California which covers much of central San Diego County including Poway, Coronado, and large portions of the City of San Diego. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and House Judiciary Committee. The Congressman is a former environmental attorney, City Council President, and Port Commission Chairman.
05.20.2016	Washington, DC– Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass the Military Construction & Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, which funds and improves programs critical to supporting San Diego veterans and their families and strengthens military readiness. The bill goes a long way toward ensuring that America keeps its promises to our its veterans; it allows the VA to hire more mental health professionals, adds resources to eliminate the veterans claims backlog, and allocates tens of millions to help end veterans homelessness. “It is a moral obligation that we keep our promises to our veterans; they and their families deserve more than just our gratitude for the sacrifices they’ve made in service to our country,” Rep. Peters said. “For years I have been working to fix the lack of adequate mental health care options for our veterans, and we took important steps to help them and their families overcome the unseen battle scars. “I’ve heard the frustrations from too many San Diego veterans and from my staff who helps them navigate long waits for claims. This bill provides resources to tackle the claims backlog. I will continue working to ensure that all of our veterans get the care they deserve in a timely manner and the backing they need to make successful transitions to civilian life.” One of the mental health provisions included largely mirrors legislation introduced by Rep. Peters, the Marriage and Family Therapists for Veterans Act, which would align state and federal guidelines to allow marriage and family therapists certified by regionally accredited programs to be considered for employment at VA medical centers. It also includes funding for the Veterans Crisis Line, the VA’s toll-free suicide hotline and the National Center for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. Rep. Peters also expressed his outrage that House Republican Leadership bent the rules to prevent an amendment that would guarantee equal protections for LGBT Americans. While the provision initially looked like it would pass, seven lawmakers were cajoled into changing their votes long after the clock had expired, leading the amendment to fail by just a single vote. Rep. Peters continued, “We had the chance to stand up to discrimination by ensuring that federal contractors who collect taxpayer dollars must treat all employees equally. Instead of standing for the values that drive our nation—the values our servicemembers defend every day—House Republicans instead chose to vote for hate. Just as the fight for equality didn’t end with the Supreme Court decision last summer, it will not end with this defeat. I will continue fighting to ensure that no American can be discriminated against because of who they are or who they love.” Congressman Peters serves the 52nd District of California which covers much of central San Diego County including Poway, Coronado, and large portions of the City of San Diego. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and House Judiciary Committee. The Congressman is a former environmental attorney, City Council President, and Port Commission Chairman.
05.19.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Over the last two days, the House of Representatives approved important changes in the national security budget authored by U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52). The proposals Rep. Peters succeeded in passing will encourage the hiring of veterans for military construction projects and take a smart and targeted approach to promoting security in the Middle East. And as he did in the Armed Services Committee, Rep. Peters also led a successful bipartisan effort to ensure that the military can continue to pursue its goal of diversifying its fuel supply to reduce its reliance on foreign oil. Rep. Peters released the following statement after voting in favor of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which serves as a roadmap for defense spending for the 2017 fiscal year and passed on a 277-147 vote: “Providing a smart, strong national defense that keeps Americans safe at home and counters security threats abroad is the most important thing that we do. My district is home to seven military installations and San Diego has the largest concentration of military forces in the world. We are a proud military town, and because the defense sector represents a quarter of our economy, passing the national defense budget is also central to our prosperity. “Military construction jobs, like those that we will see with the funding authorized to build the Coastal Campus for Coronado’s SEALs and new hangars to house F-35 Lightning jets at Miramar, are good jobs that can help our veterans make a successful transition to civilian life.” The House approved language inserted by Peters that would support Department of Defense (DoD) hiring of veterans for military construction projects. That means more local veterans could find jobs at two large construction projects in the San Diego region. $280 million was approved to build a new, better equipped Navy SEAL training facility in Coronado, known as the Coastal Campus. Also authorized was $154 million for new hangars to house F-35 jets at MCAS Miramar. Peters went on to express strong disagreement with parts of the bill inserted by House Republicans and vowed to fight to fix them when the legislation went to conference with the Senate, “No large and complex piece of legislation is ever perfect, and there are parts of this bill, pushed by Republicans, that I really hate. Funding the fight against ISIS only through April of next year is kicking the can down the road by Republicans. I also strongly object to the provision that could enable federal contractors to use tax dollars to discriminate against LGBT Americans. I argued strongly against that measure when it was considered in the Armed Services Committee, and will be working aggressively to see that it is removed in conference with the Senate. “But in my almost four years in Congress I have never voted against supporting our men and women in uniform, and that will not change today.” Click on the image above or HERE to see Congressman Peters speak in front of the House in support of his amendment to encourage the hiring of veterans for military construction projects. Congressman Peters had a number of provisions included in the final bill. Details are below: An amendment offered today that advises the Department of Defense (DoD) to seek ways to maximize the number of veterans employed to build military construction projects; An amendment offered today that expresses support for the United States to work with Israel, the Gulf Cooperation Council, Jordan, and Egypt to build an integrated missile defense system to counter Iranian aggression in the Middle East; An amendment offered today that clarifies the definition of ‘advanced nuclear’ to ensure that the research and development of innovative nuclear energy technologies includes nuclear fusion reactors in order to accelerate the development of new sources of safe, reliable, zero-carbon electricity; A negotiated provision that facilitates a necessary land exchange between the Port of San Diego and the U.S. Navy regarding the Navy Broadway Complex; An amendment offered in committee that expresses support for DoD programs that provide specialized camps for military children who are grieving the loss of a parent, guardian, or sibling. These camps are also available for children with a parent, guardian, or sibling struggling with addiction; An amendment offered in committee that directs the Secretary of Defense to identify the best ways of informing servicemembers’ Network of Support, typically made up of family and close friends, so they may better support members of the armed forces suffering duress due to their service; An amendment offered in committee that directs the Secretary of the Navy to investigate the circumstances which may have influenced mutiny charges against, and convictions of the individuals convicted in courts-martial arising from the explosion at Port Chicago (California) Naval Magazine on July 17, 1944. Congressman Peters serves the 52nd District of California which covers much of central San Diego County including Poway, Coronado, and large portions of the City of San Diego. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and House Judiciary Committee. The Congressman is a former environmental attorney, City Council President, and Port Commission Chairman.
05.17.2016	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Rep. Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass H.Con.Res.88, Reaffirming the Taiwan Relations Act, which reestablishes United States support for the Taiwan Relations Act and the Six Assurances—the cornerstone of United States relations with Taiwan. “Today, we reaffirmed the United States’ long-standing commitment to Taiwan,” said Rep. Peters. “In the last twenty years, Taiwan has established and upheld a democracy, including presidential, legislative and local elections. It is critical we continue to support Taiwan as they pursue these and other democratic values that we in the United States hold so dear.” Since 1979, the Taiwan Relations Act has authorized commercial and cultural relations between the United States and Taiwan, despite no diplomatic ties between the two countries, as a way to foster peace and stability in the Western Pacific. The Six Assurances refer to six points proposed by Taiwan when the United States negotiated the U.S. - China Joint Communiqué on Arms Sales to Taiwan in 1982. Congressman Peters serves the 52nd District of California which covers much of central San Diego County including Poway, Coronado, and large portions of the City of San Diego. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and House Judiciary Committee. The Congressman is a former environmental attorney, City Council President, and Port Commission Chairman.
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Over the last three days, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) has helped pass 18 pieces of legislation to fight the tide of opioid abuse that is hurting families in San Diego and across the country. These bills take a comprehensive approach ranging from tightened procedures for prescribing painkillers and expanded treatment for addicts, to increased availability of medications that could reduce overdose deaths. This progress in DC comes on the heels of Rep. Peters helping Walgreens launch a new effort in San Diego: prescription drug drop-off centers where people can safely dispose of unused prescription drugs to keep them out of the wrong hands. “I have friends who have lost loved ones to prescription drug abuse; it’s heartbreaking for these families,” Rep. Peters said. “With a broken Congress that refuses to work together on many critical issues, this is one that brought us together. Opioid abuse has taken and hurt too many lives. Today Congress took dramatic steps to fix this awful problem.” Rep. Peters continued, “While the opioid problem is widespread, it has hurt different communities in different ways. The legislation passed this week gives the power, resources and flexibility to local governments and law enforcement to tackle it in ways best suited to their communities. This will make a real difference for cities like San Diego and the San Diego Police Department who are fighting this epidemic.” Tomorrow, the House of Representatives is expected to combine the 18 pieces of legislation into one in order to enter negotiations with the Senate on a final version to send to the President’s desk for his signature. Among the bills passed by the House this week to address opioid and prescription drug abuse are the following: The Interagency Pain Management Prescription Improvement Act, which creates a federal task force made up of agency officials, medical professionals, and researchers to review and modify best practices for treating pain. The Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act, which creates a comprehensive opioid abuse reduction program at the Department of Justice to direct federal resources to tackle opioid abuse. This will give states and localities funding and flexibility to address abuse issues unique to their communities. The Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act, which directs the Department of Defense and the Veterans Administration (VA) to update opioid therapy clinical guidelines and requires the VA to track data on opioid use by veterans. The OPEN Act, which requires the Attorney General and the Secretary of Health and Human Services to collect and publicly share information about the effectiveness of opioid-related programs to share best practices. The Co-prescribing to Reduce Overdoses Act, which encourages and trains healthcare providers to prescribe overdose reversal drugs, such as Naloxone, when they prescribe opioids. Lali’s Law, which would authorize grants for states to develop standing orders for Naloxone prescriptions and train healthcare professionals on the use of overdose reversal drugs. The Good Samaritan Assessment Act, which requires to Government Accountability Office to study state and local Good Samaritan laws, such as those in California, that protect those who administer overdose reversal drugs from criminal liability. Congressman Peters serves the 52nd District of California which covers much of central San Diego County including Poway, Coronado, and large portions of the City of San Diego. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and House Judiciary Committee. The Congressman is a former environmental attorney, City Council President, and Port Commission Chairman.
05.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Congressman Scott Peters (D-CA) and Congressman Steve Israel (D-NY) introduced legislation that will provide financial relief for families who are caring for an aging or ailing relative. The Americans Giving Care to Elders (AGE) Act creates a federal tax credit of up to $6,000 to offset elder care expenses for family caregivers. “In San Diego and across the country, adult children of aging parents are the first and best caregivers to our seniors,” said Rep. Scott Peters. “Family members take on this responsibility with love and respect for their parents, but often without any formal guidance or support, which can impact their own careers and financial security. Our proposal will give them the financial relief and important resources they need to care for their aging loved ones.” “Many hardworking New Yorkers are feeling the financial burden of caring for elderly loved ones while being saddled with the expenses of raising their own families,” said Rep. Steve Israel. “As the baby boomer generation gets older and requires more care, especially for diseases like Alzheimer’s, it is common sense that we provide a tax credit to offset caregiver expenses and give these families much-needed relief.” This legislation is endorsed by the National Council on Aging and Stroke Association, the Alzheimer’s Association, Jewish Family Service of San Diego, Alzheimer's San Diego, the San Diego Senior Alliance, and Third Way, “Millions of families find themselves as members of the ‘sandwich generation,’ coping with the challenges and costs of care for elderly parents at the same time they are caring for their own children,” said Senator Amy Klobuchar who has introduced similar legislation in the U.S. Senate. “As baby boomers age, these numbers will continue to grow. We must do everything we can to support daughters and sons, and our legislation will help make it easier for them to care for their families.” “I want to thank Congressman Israel and Congressman Peters for their commitment to helping families who struggle with the financial burden of caring for their loved ones who have Alzheimer's and other diseases,” said Kathy Scopp-Distler, former caregiver and Ambassador to the Alzheimer’s Association, which has endorsed Reps. Israel and Peters’ legislation. “The AGE Act will make it easier for families to continue caring for their loved ones by negating some of their expenses and providing them with peace of mind.” In addition to establishing a federal tax credit, the AGE Act will strengthen the National Family Caregiver Support Program (NFCSP), which helps fund direct services to family caregivers. The bill authorizes the NFCSP until 2019 and increases funding from $145.6 million (FY2013-FY2015) to $187 million. Additionally, the AGE Act will increase support for family caregivers by directing the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services to establish the National Caregiving Resource Center. The center will be designated as a central clearinghouse where families, public agencies and private organizations can learn about best practices and promising innovations to support families in their caregiving roles. Congressman Peters serves the 52nd District of California which covers much of central San Diego County including Poway, Coronado, and large portions of the City of San Diego. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and House Judiciary Committee. The Congressman is a former environmental attorney, City Council President, and Port Commission Chairman.
05.10.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass S.125, the Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Program Reauthorization Act. The bill allows state and local law enforcement agencies to apply for a matching grant program to help purchase specialized bulletproof vests for female officers. “Every day, in San Diego and around the country, law enforcement officers place themselves in harm’s way to keep our communities safe,” Rep. Peters said. "They put their lives on the line for us, so it is our duty to ensure they are equipped to stay safe themselves.” The Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Program Reauthorization Act ensures all law enforcement officers are fully protected by their bulletproof vests, regardless of body type. Since his time as a member of the San Diego City Council, Rep. Peters has consistently fought to give public safety officers the tools and resources they need to keep department staffing at appropriate levels to keep response times down, and to give officers the equipment they need to keep themselves and our communities safe. This vote builds on his record of support for public safety. Congressman Peters serves the 52nd District of California which covers much of central San Diego County including Poway, Coronado, and large portions of the City of San Diego. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and House Judiciary Committee. The Congressman is a former environmental attorney, City Council President, and Port Commission Chairman.
05.06.2016	SAN DIEGO – Yesterday, Representative Scott Peters (CA-52) was informed by Julián Castro, Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), that HUD is reopening the public comment period on the formula that determines federal homelessness funding no later than June 21st. Since coming to Congress in 2013, Rep. Peters has been advocating for changes to the federal funding formula that unfairly disadvantages cities like San Diego. In 2014, despite having the fifth largest homeless population in the country, San Diego received the 23rd highest level of federal homelessness funding. The public comment period will give service organizations, housing providers, community leaders, and elected officials input on how to revise the outdated formula. “After years of advocating for changes to this formula, it is great to have a hard deadline to reopen the public comment period and opportunity to get San Diego its fair share,” said Rep. Peters. “I appreciate Secretary Castro’s responsiveness and willingness to work with me to find a more equitable way to distribute federal homelessness resources. My staff in San Diego is already working with local stakeholders and organizations to ensure they are prepared to make their case during the public comment period to get our city the resources it needs to end homelessness." This announcement comes on the heels of several San Diego projects receiving HUD Tier 2 Funding, which allocates money for permanent supportive housing and rapid re-housing programs. The Tier 2 projects complete the FY2015 award cycle for the Continuum of Care grant competition. Combining Tiers 1 and 2, HUD’s total award for the region is $17,859.9659 with all Tier 1 projects being funded at or above the requested amount. Background on Congressman Peters’ Work on Homelessness: March 2013: Sent a letter to then-HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan advocating for an update to the Continuum of Care funding formula November 2013: Sent letter with Representatives Vargas (CA-51) and Davis (CA-53) asking for a comment period to make revisions to the funding formula September 2014: Sent letter to HUD Secretary Castro advocating for a funding formula update January 2015: Met, and advocated for an update to the funding formula, with Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs Chris O’Connor when Assistant Secretary O’Connor was in San Diego for the annual WeAllCount February 2015: Call with officials from HUD and the Department of Veterans Affairs to discuss ending veterans homelessness and revising the outdated federal funding formula May 2015: Met with Secretary Castro on Capitol Hill to discuss the funding formula disparity and to advocate for an update, and the chance for San Diego input on the process June 2015: Had a call with Secretary Castro to continue advocating for an update to the funding formula October 2015: During a visit to San Diego, Secretary Castro announced his intention to reopen public comment on the funding formula February 2016: Sponsored an amendment to H.R. 3700 requiring the HUD Secretary to reopen the public comment period on the Continuum of Care funding formula.
05.06.2016	San Diego– Today, hundreds of San Diego seniors gathered to honor Rep. Scott Peters for helping pass the Older Americans Act. Rep. Peters was honored during a celebration to mark the sixth anniversary of Serving Seniors and the Gary and Mary West Senior Wellness Center in Downtown San Diego. A bilingual caseworker translated the anniversary program in Mandarin, Chinese, in support of Asian American Heritage Month. “San Diego seniors rely on many programs supported by the Older Americans Act, including meal delivery, healthcare, transportation services and abuse prevention,” said Rep. Peters. “These programs help seniors, who deserve our respect and support, to age with dignity.” The Older Americans Act was reauthorized this March after nearly a decade of uncertainty for senior wellness programs. This year’s reauthorization provided stability to organizations like Serving Seniors, which provides nearly 600,000 meals each year to San Diego seniors. The legislation also included additional resources for programs to combat elder abuse and exploitation. Congressman Peters and his staff are also holding a number of Senior Scam Seminars across San Diego in conjunction with the County of San Diego and the Contractors State License Board to give seniors the tools to protect themselves from fraud. “Reauthorization of the Older Americans Act provided much needed reforms, but we can’t rely on Congress to take care of our senior community,” said Rep. Peters “Our workshops and the services provided by Serving Seniors are some of the ways we’re ensuring San Diego’s seniors have a safety net, regardless of what happens in Washington.” Congressman Peters serves the 52nd District of California which covers much of central San Diego County including Poway, Coronado, and large portions of the City of San Diego. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and House Judiciary Committee. The Congressman is a former environmental attorney, City Council President, and Port Commission Chairman.
05.04.2016	SAN DIEGO – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52), co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional Special Operations Forces Caucus, released the following statement on the death of Charles Humphrey Keating IV, a Coronado-based Navy SEAL who was killed by Islamic State Fighters in Iraq on Tuesday: “I offer my deepest condolences and prayers, and those of my family and staff, to the family and loved ones of Navy SEAL Charles Keating IV. His death is a heart-wrenching reminder of the dangers that our special operators face every day as they fight for freedom in the darkest corners of the world. Navy SEAL Keating’s courage under fire and sacrifice on behalf of his fellow SEALS and our country’s safety embodies the best of our special operators and will not soon be forgotten.” Congressman Peters serves the 52nd District of California which covers much of central San Diego County including Poway, Coronado, and large portions of the City of San Diego. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and House Judiciary Committee. The Congressman is a former environmental attorney, City Council President, and Port Commission Chairman.
05.02.2016	San Diego, CA– This week, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) visited Starbucks on Miramar Road to learn about their programs to hire San Diego veterans and military families, assist employees seeking higher education, and provide unused food to Feeding America for distribution throughout San Diego. The food bank initiative started as a pilot program in San Diego, and will now be expanded to Starbucks locations around the country. As part of the Starbucks “Behind-the-Bar” Program, Congressman Peters also tried his hand at making coffee drinks and serving customers as a barista. "It's inspiring to see the innovative approach that Starbucks is taking to employ veterans and military families and help make higher education more accessible," Rep. Peters said. "And like so many of San Diego’s innovative ideas, the local collaboration to donate unused food items will now be implemented across the country to help feed the hungry." Following the roundtable discussion with Starbucks partners and employees, local military veterans and their spouses, Rep. Peters joined Starbucks staff behind the bar to help with orders and learn how to brew the perfect latte. The Miramar Starbucks employees that trained Rep. Peters are spouses of active duty marines stationed at Marine Corps Air Station Miramar. Click here or on the image above to see Rep. Peters learning how to be a barista. Congressman Peters serves the 52nd District of California which covers much of central San Diego County including Poway, Coronado, and large portions of the City of San Diego. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and House Judiciary Committee. The Congressman is a former environmental attorney, City Council President, and Port Commission Chairman.
04.28.2016	Throughout yesterday and into the night, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) championed forward thinking military energy security policies, smart and tough strategies to fight terrorism, and San Diego’s defense priorities during the House Armed Services Committee markup of the ‘National Defense Authorization Act,’ (NDAA), which serves as a roadmap for national defense spending for the 2017 Fiscal Year. The bill, which authorizes $610 billion in defense spending for the next fiscal year, passed the committee at approximately 2:30am EST on a 60-2 vote and will now advance to the full House of Representatives. Congressman Peters, who has concentrated on defense energy since coming to Congress, was credited with leading a surprising bipartisan defeat of three reckless anti-energy security amendments and adoption of an additional amendment that removed harmful provisions on biofuels from the bill. During a night that saw few truly close, bipartisan votes, Rep. Peters rallied members from both parties around the topic of military energy security in the face of considerable opposition from members of the committee opposed to allowing the military to invest in renewable energy, deploy biofuels, and consider climate change when developing a national security strategy. Rep. Peters’ remarks on the national security threat of climate change and on the importance of diversifying the military’s fuel supply can be viewed here, here, and here. “These legislative victories in D.C. mean that our military leaders in San Diego and across the country have the tools and backing they need to equip a 21st century military and confront the new and dynamic threats we face,” Rep. Peters said. “It isn’t enough for us to authorize the building of ships and aircraft; we have to give our military the advanced technology and flexibility necessary to complete their missions safely and efficiently, and that includes allowing them to invest in renewable energy and biofuels that reduce costs and save lives. Energy security is a national security imperative, and we cannot tie the hands of our military leaders at a time when climate change threatens to exacerbate existing challenges and endanger military bases in San Diego and elsewhere.” Among the provisions included to fight terrorism were: $750 million to the Counterterrorism Partnership Fund, which provides support and assistance to foreign security forces and other groups fighting terror; $250 million for vetted Syrian opposition fighters through an extension of the Syrian Train and Equip program; $680 million in assistance to the Iraqi security force and Kurdish Peshmerga fighters combatting ISIS, a quarter of which is contingent upon the Secretary of Defense submitting a plan to retake Mosul, Iraq. Rep. Peters also lauded reforms that streamline processes for businesses to compete for defense contracts and expand the DoD’s flexibility to adapt upgrades to weapons systems over time; this will get innovative technology into the field faster to aid warfighters in the fight against terror. Rep. Peters continued, “Congress’ top priority must be to prevent terrorist attacks like those that we have seen in Europe from happening here, and today the Armed Services Committee took smart, bipartisan steps forward to take the fight to ISIS and enhance our national security. And as we pivot to the Pacific and expand our use of Special Forces against terrorist threats, the strategic role of San Diego in our national defense will only continue to grow.” The proposal that passed the committee authorized almost $280 million for military construction projects at Naval Base Coronado and Naval Amphibious Base Coronado, as well as over $154 million for military construction projects at Marine Corps Air Station Miramar. Congressman Peters, co-chair of the bipartisan Special Operations Forces Caucus, noted that those projects included more than $94 million for the Coastal Campus expansion project that will rebuild and improve training facilities for Coronado’s Navy SEALs. In addition to his successful efforts on defense energy, Congressman Peters had a number of provisions included in the final bill. Details are below: A negotiated provision that facilitates a necessary land exchange between the Port of San Diego and the U.S. Navy regarding the Navy Broadway Complex; An amendment offering support for DoD programs that provide specialized camps for military children who are grieving the loss of a parent, guardian, or sibling. These camps are also available for children with a parent, guardian, or sibling struggling with addiction; An amendment that directs the Secretary of Defense to identify the best ways of informing servicemembers’ Network of Support, typically made up of family and close friends, so they may better support members of the armed forces suffering duress due to their service; An amendment directing the Secretary of the Navy to investigate the circumstances which may have influenced mutiny charges against, and convictions of the individuals convicted in courts-martial arising from the explosion at Port Chicago (California) Naval Magazine on July 17, 1944.
04.20.2016	Today, on the 17th anniversary of the Columbine High School massacre, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) read the names of all thirteen Columbine victims in front of the House of Representatives. The reading was a deviation from Rep. Peters weekly reading of the names of mass shooting victims since the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School, which he has been doing since December. “It’s been seventeen years since we all focused our attention on the horrifying scenes from the Columbine massacre,” Rep. Peters said. “At the time the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act was not even six years old, yet the Columbine shooters were able to exploit loopholes to acquire firearms underage and without background checks. It is infuriating to know that commonsense measures could have prevented this gut wrenching tragedy and so many since it.” The same loopholes that the Columbine shooters used to acquire their firearms still exist and allow criminals, domestic abusers, and the dangerously mentally ill to purchase firearms at gun shows or online without a background check. In an interview with Roll Call published earlier this week, Congressman Peters spoke about his efforts to remind Congress of the human cost of their inaction to curb gun violence in order to compel a vote on bipartisan legislation to close background check loopholes. Click here or on the image about to see Rep. Peters read the names of the thirteen Columbine shooting victims.
04.13.2016	Last night, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass the bipartisan Preventing Crimes Against Veterans Act, which establishes fines or prison sentences of up to five years for people who engage in schemes to defraud veterans who are seeking to recover veterans benefits. Currently, there is no penalty for individuals who are not properly trained or certified to be paid for helping veterans pursue their claims. Last year, Congressman Peters introduced the Constituent Services Disclosure Act, which requires congressional offices to publicize free services they offer to help constituents with veterans’ benefits, passports, Social Security, and other federal programs. It also compels for-profit veterans’ benefits companies to disclose that similar services can be provided by their congressional representatives free of charge. “Creating real penalties will help crack down on criminals who are trying to defraud our veterans out of their benefits,” Rep. Peters said. “While this is an important step forward, there is more to be done to ensure that our veterans and their families get the benefits they have earned through their service. By requiring every Congressmember to publicize the services they offer for their constituents, we can help more veterans get the benefits they deserve without needing to pay or be at risk of being defrauded.” Rep. Peters concluded, “It doesn’t always take an act of Congress to help the San Diego veterans community, and I encourage veterans who need assistance filing a claim or getting the care they have earned to contact my San Diego office.” Since coming to Congress in 2013, Congressman Peters’ office has helped hundreds of San Diego veterans recover over $1.2 million of earned benefits.
04.12.2016	Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement to mark ‘Equal Pay Day,’ the date when women’s wages catch up to what men were paid in the previous year. Nationwide, according to the American Association of University Women, women earn only 79 cents to each dollar earned by their male counterparts, and in the 52nd District women earn just 82 cents for every dollar earned by men. “I’m married to a strong woman, am raising one, and have hired many,” Rep. Peters said. “As families across San Diego increasingly rely on women’s wages to pay bills, educate their children, and save for retirement, they cannot afford for women to make only 82 cents to every dollar a male colleague does. Women should be paid the same wages for doing the same work as their male counterparts. “I am a proud supporter of the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would help end gender discrimination in pay by making wage data more accessible, empowering women to negotiate for equal pay, and strengthening enforcement. Closing the wage gap is a key part of expanding economic and educational opportunity for women and girls. Our country cannot be successful if women are not getting the equal pay they deserve and have earned. ”
03.31.2016	U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after findings of an investigation into the VA San Diego Healthcare System (VASDHS) were released today: “I’m disappointed and angry to learn the very type of VA malfeasance that I’ve railed against, that I’ve fought to eradicate, was happening here in San Diego. I’m particularly saddened to hear that another horrible wait time cover up contributed to a suicide attempt – which shows how desperately this veteran needed the help that was delayed by someone’s desire to put a sunny face on a dark problem. “Congress was rightly shocked into action after learning of ‘schedule fixing’ most notably in Phoenix but also in other regions. How anyone could think it was better to cover up that veterans in need weren’t getting the care they’d earned, rather than speak up, is appalling and an egregious abuse of trust. “I know VASDHS has acted to address these problems, and I commend them for taking the findings and recommendations made by the inspector general seriously. I will, however, follow up with Sec. McDonald to find out how it is that any of the people found responsible still have a job at the VA.”
03.31.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement in celebration of César Chávez Day: “Today, we honor the legacy of César Chávez and recognize his outspoken and courageous leadership on behalf of workers’ rights. César Chávez organized the voices of the disenfranchised in California and elsewhere to launch a movement that led to safer, more just conditions for migrant farm laborers and their families. He has inspired generations of Latino leaders, labor organizers, activists, and elected officials working to advance the cause of equality. I will continue to stand up for all of our workers to ensure they are treated fairly and protected from discrimination in the workplace.”
03.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) lauded the passing of the bipartisan Foreclosure Relief and Extension for Servicemembers Act, which restores foreclosure protections for active-duty servicemembers to up to a year after leaving the service. Congressman Peters helped to pass the bill on Monday, and it will now go to the President for his signature. “The transition to civilian life is difficult enough for many veterans and their families without the added stress of potentially losing their homes,” Rep. Peters said. “These commonsense protections will ensure that the 15,000 Marines and sailors discharged in San Diego every year have the chance to get their feet underneath them before facing the threat of foreclosure.” Last February, Congressman Peters passed an amendment to the Regulatory Flexibility Act to ensure that the Department of Defense could issue rules to protect servicemembers from predatory lending practices. Peters’ full plan to support our nation’s veterans can be found here. Congressman Peters serves the 52nd District of California which covers much of central San Diego County including Poway, Coronado, and large portions of the City of San Diego. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and House Judiciary Committee. The Congressman is a former environmental attorney, City Council President, and Port Commission Chairman.
03.22.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement in the wake of the Brussels attacks and after voting last night to pass the Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act: “I am so sad for Brussels today, and am thinking about the victims of these shocking and brutal attacks, as well as their families, first responders and law enforcement officers who are still responding. “There is a clear threat posed to Europe and the United States by fighters traveling to ISIS-controlled territory and then returning home. While it does not appear at this time that these suspects were American or had crossed our borders, the top priority of Congress must be to prevent similar attacks from occurring in the United States. “I have introduced legislation that would require the State Department to revoke passports from any individuals that are affiliated with terrorist groups. Late last year, I helped pass a measure that requires any European who has traveled to countries that sponsor terrorism to undergo an extensive visa screening process. And last night, I helped advance a bill to enhance efforts at the State Department to block the travel of foreign fighters and terrorists. This bill will also share our methods with allies to ensure that they have the tools to identify potential terrorists who are entering their borders and keep them from moving freely. “I urge the Senate to take up this measure immediately and advance it to the President for his signature. “We should never forget our values or vilify those fleeing violence and oppression, and must continue to thoroughly vet those who seek refuge in America. With a smart, targeted approach, we can keep Americans safe at home and defeat our enemies without compromising the principles that make America great and free."
03.21.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass the reauthorization of the Older Americans Act, which funds a number of programs essential to San Diego seniors. This bipartisan victory will increase funding for these programs over three years and give certainty to Serving Seniors, Meals on Wheels of Greater San Diego, the County of San Diego, and others who provide services for San Diego seniors. “In San Diego and across the country, seniors and their families depend on the programs included in the Older Americans Act for health care, meals, and other essential services. These programs help ensure that our seniors are able to age with dignity. This is how Congress is supposed to work – both parties, working together to help those who need and rely on the federal government the most.” The legislation also included additional resources for programs to combat elder abuse and exploitation. Congressman Peters and his staff have held a number of Senior Scam Seminars across San Diego in conjunction with the County of San Diego and the Contractors State License Board to give seniors the tools to protect themselves from fraud. “These seminars are one of the ways my office gets things done and helps our constituents without an act of Congress,” Peters added. “The bill we passed today, however, gets at important priorities that no one member can accomplish alone, like how to reduce fraud and abuse in our Medicare system. This will help reduce costs and keep Medicare more sustainable in the long run.” Rep. Peters speaks in support of the Older Americans Reauthorization Act. Key Provisions of the Older Americans Reauthorization Act: Reauthorizes programs under the Older Americans Act of 1965 for three years and increases authorized funding levels for all currently funded programs over the FY 2016 levels. Strengthens laws to prevent elder abuse Improves and expands eligibility for the National Family Caregiver Support Program Cuts down on Medicare fraud and abuse Improves nutrition services Promotes modernization of senior centers
03.17.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) stood up for sensible immigration reform and against the deportation of undocumented immigrants that have children born in the United States. Rep. Peters opposed an anti-immigrant measure that would seek to undo the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans (DAPA) program. Earlier this month, Peters registered his support of DAPA with the Supreme Court in the case of United States v. Texas. “It’s unrealistic and unreasonable to expect that we would deport millions of people who have built lives and raised their families in the United States,” Rep. Peters said. “The majority of Americans and groups like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the AFL-CIO support comprehensive immigration reform because it would grow our economy and create jobs. We should do our jobs and fix our broken immigration system.” Earlier this week, Congressman Peters called on Congress to get to work on immigration reform during a hearing of the House Judiciary Committee’s Task Force on Executive Overreach. The Task Force was created by House Republican Leadership to critique the overuse of executive authority, but has largely focused on areas, like immigration reform, where Congress has failed to advance legislation. Rep. Peters urges his colleagues to do their jobs and pass meaningful immigration reform rather than criticize programs like DACA and DAPA.
03.15.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued the following statement after helping to pass House Concurrent Resolution 75, which condemns ISIS atrocities against religious and ethnic minorities as war crimes: “For years, ISIS has been targeting Christians, Yezidi, Shi’a and other religious and ethnic minority groups in Iraq and Syria. There is no question that these brutal acts of violence against defenseless civilians are war crimes. This bipartisan measure calls on the United States and its allies to work together to prevent further war crimes and hold these murderers accountable. “But these atrocities will likely continue until we win the fight against ISIS. It is beyond time for Congress to debate and pass an Authorization of the Use of Military Force. With a smart, targeted approach we can help put an end to this slaughter and eliminate safe havens that could be used to plot attacks against the United States. My colleague Rep. Schiff’s proposal, which has clear directives and a 3-year renewal, is a good place to start.” H. Con Res. 75 states that all governments and international organizations should call ISIS atrocities war crimes. It also declares that U.N. member states should work together to prevent further war crimes and punish those responsible by preserving evidence and, if necessary, establishing tribunals.
03.02.2016	Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) took part in the first hearing of the House Judiciary Committee’s Task Force on Executive Overreach. The Task Force, made up of 12 Republicans and 8 Democrats from the Judiciary Committee, was created by House Republican Leadership to critique the overuse of executive authority. The hearing featured testimony from conservative political scholars as well as attacks on executive actions in many areas where Congress has failed to pass legislation of its own. Following the hearing, Congressman Peters released the following statement: “What struck me in all of the testimony was that there was an agreement that this is really is not a task force on executive overreach as much as it is on legislative underreach. For instance, we had an immigration reform bill in the Senate in 2013, it got 69 votes. But we didn’t even get a vote on that in the House of Representatives. “Really what we have here is a failure of Congress. I am left with the impression that what we should do is get back to work on legislation from the House with which the Senate will agree and that the President might sign. Rather than have a hearing about what Congress isn’t doing, we should go about the business of doing Congressional work.” Click here or on the image above to view a full video of Congressman Peters’ remarks at the Executive Overreach Task Force hearing.
02.24.2016	Last week, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) gave an address to University of California San Diego (UCSD) students and faculty as part of a speaker series on college affordability hosted by the UCSD Office of External Affairs. During the speech, Congressman Peters announced that he will release an education plan to expand opportunity and drive economic growth in San Diego and across the country. “An affordable, high quality education can be a tool to increase opportunity for students from all communities,” Rep. Peters said. “I grew up as the son of a Lutheran Minister, and when I was applying to colleges he told me that whatever school I got into, together we could find a way to afford it. I don’t think that path exists anymore for most middle class families. Peters continued, “Every student from every community in America deserves an affordable, high-quality education and a fair shot at success. In San Diego, our innovation economy needs a highly-skilled workforce to fill the jobs of the future that are being created. Investing in education from early childhood to college will drive economic growth and ensure that America remains competitive in the global race for talent.” Congressman Peters’ Education Plan to Expand Opportunity and Drive Economic growth, which can be viewed in full HERE, consists of the following seven initiatives: Make College Affordable Again Prepare Students in STEM & STEAM Fields Invest in Quality Early Childhood Education Ensure Quality Education for Military Connected Students and Veterans Enable Homeless and Foster Youth to Succeed Attract and Retain the Highest Quality Teachers Foster Safe and Inclusive Schools
02.22.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) visited Flint, Michigan with Rep. Dan Kildee and other Congressmembers to meet with residents and local business owners affected by the city’s ongoing water crisis. Rep. Peters, who spent much of his childhood in the Detroit suburb of Southfield, was also briefed by Dr. Lurie of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services about federal response efforts and the resources still needed to address the crisis. Before entering public service, Rep. Peters practiced environmental law for 15 years and worked on clean water, habitat protection, and hazardous waste cleanup. See his full statement as prepared for delivery at today’s press conference below: “I'm here today as a child of Michigan. My first memories were from my elementary school and Cub Scout troop in Southfield, getting Vernors ginger ale at my grandparents' house in Birmingham, and the Tigers winning the 1968 World Series. I also come as an environmental lawyer. Before I went into elected office, I practiced for 15 years working on clean water, habitat protection and hazardous waste cleanup. When I heard about Flint, I told my friend Dan Kildee that I wanted to help, and I thank him for his invitation today. “In my career in environmental law, I learned that many toxic exposures take years to have an effect, and that people are able to recover from most exposures over time. But children exposed to metals often suffer permanent damage because their defenses against these poisons have not yet fully developed. I know from expert toxicology witnesses about the "blood-brain barrier" that forms in human beings at about age 6 and protects our brains from the effects of heavy metals like mercury and lead. Young children, like these children in Flint, have no defenses to these poisons. Their families are honest and hardworking and raising their kids to be the same, so they have a chance to succeed. “Those are the "Midwestern values," I learned from Michigan. It is beyond me that we have gotten to the point in Michigan where we are not running to the aid of our neighbors in Flint, that we are not declaring that every child in America should have the right to grow up without worrying that the water we supply them is hurting them. Do we delay in ending this because these children are somebody else's children? They are not; they are our children. They are my children. They are America’s children. We must protect them and take care of them.” In the afternoon, Rep. Peters and the group toured a water distribution site operated in partnership with the Michigan Muslim Community Council that is playing a critical role in getting clean water to Flint residents. Four other Members of Congress traveled to Flint, including Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (MD-5), Congressman Elijah Cummings (MD-7), the Ranking member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Michigan Congresswomen Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) and Debbie Dingell (MI-14). Congressman Peters cosponsored and voted in favor of Rep. Kildee’s Safe Drinking Water And Improved Compliance Awareness Act, which passed the House of Representatives earlier this month. This measure strengthens requirements for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to notify residents when concentrations of lead in drinking water exceed actionable levels. A study released in September 2015 revealed increased lead levels in Flint children and infants since the city had begun sourcing drinking water from the Flint River in April 2014. The water from the Flint River was corrosive and caused lead and other contaminants to leach into the drinking water.
02.18.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) raised awareness for the IRS Volunteer Income Tax Assistance Program (VITA), which provides free tax assistance at a number of sites in San Diego. The VITA program is staffed by IRS-certified volunteers and helps working families, the elderly, persons with disabilities, and those with limited English prepare their taxes and determine their eligibility for tax credits, including the Earned Income Tax Credit and the Child Tax Credit. “Many families are unaware of the resources available to help them complete their filing this tax season,” said Rep. Peters. “With the help of the volunteers at VITA sites across the county we can give working families the resources they need to save money.” The event took place at 2-1-1 San Diego, which connects San Diegans with VITA appointments, and included Thrive San Diego, which assists individuals and families in achieving financial stability. “We are pleased to provide a real person around the clock to make it as easy as possible for San Diegans to get connected to the help they need,” said John Ohanian, President and CEO of 2-1-1 San Diego. “Through the power of technology and partnerships, 2-1-1 can set appointments for individuals at their local VITA sites in real time.” "Our goal at Thrive is to make sure that we are bringing together partners throughout the community to get people the financial support they need and put more of their money back in their pockets," added Teresa Smith of Thrive San Diego. To determine their eligibility for the VITA program and find the location most convenient for them, San Diegans can call 2-1-1 San Diego or Congressman Peters’ San Diego Office, or visit the IRS website. Listed below are the 10 VITA sites in neighborhoods represented by Congressman Peters. Map of VITA sites in the 52nd district. Point Loma Library- 3701 Voltaire St. San Diego CA 92107 North Clairemont Library- 4616 Clairemont Dr., San Diego CA 92117 Pacific Beach Library- 4275 Cass St., San Diego CA 92109 North University Community Library- 8820 Judicial Dr., San Diego CA 92122 Mira Mesa Senior Center- 8460 Mira Mesa Blvd., San Diego CA 92126 SAY San Diego - Chinese Service Center- 5075 Ruffin Road, San Diego CA 92123 Poway Senior Center- 13094 Civic Center Dr., Poway CA 92064 SAY San Diego - Mira Mesa Branch Library- 8405 New Salem Street, San Diego CA 92126 United Way of San Diego - Mobile Disability- 4699 Murphy Canyon Road, San Diego CA 92123 Rancho Bernardo Senior Services- 16769 Bernardo Center Dr Ste K14, San Diego CA 92128
02.09.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass H.R. 2915, a bipartisan measure that will improve mental health care for female veterans and veterans who took part in classified missions during their service. Improving treatment procedures for veterans with classified mission experience was one of many proposals that Coronado residents Dr. Howard and Jean Somers offered to Congress following the suicide of their son, Sergeant Daniel Somers. Sergeant Somers suffered from post-traumatic stress (PTS) and tragically took his own life in 2013 after a long wait for individual treatment at the VA. “As a country we have failed too many of our veterans, and their families, who sacrificed so much to serve and returned home with unseen battle scars,” Rep. Peters said. “These changes will make a real difference in the lives of veterans anguished by mental scars from their brave service. I have great admiration for Dr. Howard and Jean Somers who have now dedicated their lives to fixing the problems in a system that failed their son in order to save others.” Between 2000 and 2010, veteran women committed suicide at a rate over five times higher than that of non-veteran women. Sgt. Somers, before taking his life, had requested individual treatment for his PTS even though the wait list was longer than group therapy, out of fear that he might reveal classified information in a group setting. Peters has been working with the Somers to address problems at the VA since coming to Congress. He is currently working with them to address the problem of family members not being aware of the rigors and hardships of military service and the services available to servicemembers and their families to help them cope. This issue was recently raised by other families of veterans in a San Diego Union-Tribune article about veterans suicide. Peters, today, also helped pass bills to restore accountability at the VA and increase veterans benefits. “Our veterans should never be made to wait on fake lists for life-saving care or rely on Congress to get its act together in order to provide for their families,” Rep. Peters continued. “We must uphold our promise to our veterans and get them the benefits and high-quality care they have earned through their service.” The VA Medical Center Recovery Act acknowledges failures at VA hospitals that falsified records and waiting lists and puts procedures in place to more quickly correct failures and restore accountability. The American Heroes COLA Act makes permanent the cost of living adjustment for veterans benefits to ensure that Congressional dysfunction does not keep veterans from getting the benefits that they deserve.
02.09.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) offered his support to President Obama and Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Julian Castro’s budget request to better address youth and family homelessness across the country. The request includes an $11 billion investment in community-based strategies such as Housing Choice Vouchers and rapid rehousing programs and would provide families with the assistance they need to bring themselves out of homelessness. “On any given night as many as 64,000 families and 123,000 children are homeless in America,” Rep. Peters said. “Our communities need more resources to get people off of the street, out of shelters, and into stable homes so they can hold a job and raise their family. Secretary Castro has taken significant steps to reduce homelessness across the country, and I support this budget request that will bring more resources to communities like San Diego that are working cooperatively to end homelessness.” Congressman Peters also spoke to Secretary Castro on Monday morning about the budget request and Peters’ amendment that would direct HUD to reopen the public comment period on the Continuum of Care funding formula that determines how federal anti-homelessness funds are allocated. “Secretary Castro again committed to reopening the comment period, and expressed support for our efforts to build Congressional consensus around this priority,” Peters continued. “I will continue working with Secretary Castro to ensure that San Diego gets its fair share of federal resources to help the homeless.” In 2014, despite having the 5th largest homeless population in the country, San Diego received the 23rd most funding. Reopening the public comment period would allow service organizations, housing providers, community leaders, and elected officials the opportunity to provide input on how the formula could be revised to more equitably distribute resources to end homelessness. Peters concluded by commenting on the announcement by the Republican Chairmen of the House and Senate Budget Committees that they will not invite Office of Management and Budget Director Shaun Donovan to present President Obama’s budget. “We may not all agree on every priority, but to deny the White House the opportunity to present on and debate their budget is partisan politics at its worst and embodies what the American people hate most about Congress,” Peters said. “This is not how we fix Washington and tackle the challenges of growing our economy and creating high-quality jobs.” Background on Congressman Peters’ Work on Homelessness: March 2013: Sent a letter to then-HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan advocating for an update to the Continuum of Care funding formula November 2013: Sent letter with Representatives Vargas (CA-51) and Davis (CA-53) asking for a comment period to make revisions to the funding formula September 2014: Sent letter to HUD Secretary Castro advocating for a funding formula update January 2015: Met, and advocated for an update to the funding formula, with Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs Chris O’Connor when Secretary O’Connor was in San Diego for the annual WeAllCount February 2015: Call with officials from HUD and the Department of Veterans Affairs to discuss ending veterans homelessness and revising the outdated federal funding formula May 2015: Met with Secretary Castro on Capitol Hill to discuss the funding formula disparity and to advocate for an update, and the chance for San Diego input on the process June 2015: Had a call with Secretary Castro to continue advocating for an update to the funding formula October 2015: During a visit to San Diego, Secretary Castro announced his intention to reopen public comment on the funding formula February 2016: House unanimously passed Peters’ amendment that would require HUD to reopen the public comment period on the funding formula.
02.08.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement to mark the first day of the Lunar New Year: “San Diego is home to a vibrant Asian Pacific American community that includes leaders in science, business, and culture. Our AAPI community makes significant contributions to our cultural heritage and enriches our region’s history. “As a member of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, I am proud to represent San Diego’s growing AAPI community in Washington and look forward to our future work together. I wish them and everyone in my district a prosperous Lunar New Year filled with happiness, good health, and good fortune. Happy Year of the Monkey!” Last week Congressman Peters took part in multiple Lunar New Year celebrations, including the Lunar New Year Opening Ceremony at the San Diego Chinese Academy and the Year of the Monkey Celebration hosted by the Chinese Service Center, Chinese School of San Diego, and the House of China. Next week, Congressman Peters will be attending the San Diego Tet Festival held by the Vietnamese-American Youth Alliance. Congressman Peters continued by thanking local AAPI leaders for hosting him at the Lunar New Year celebrations, “I appreciate the gracious invitations from the San Diego Chinese Academy, the Chinese School of San Diego, David Seid and House of China, Sally Wong-Avery and the Chinese Service Center, and Andy Nguyen and the Vietnamese-American Youth Alliance.” Pictured at the Year of the Monkey Celebration from left to right: Linda Young, Taipei Economic and Cultural Office; John Chiang, California State Treasurer; Dr. Lilly Cheng, SDSU Confucius Institute; Sally Wong-Avery, Chinese Service Center and Chinese School of San Diego; Congressman Peters; County Supervisor Ron Roberts; David Du, Chinese American Entrepreneur; David Seid, President of House of China. From the Year of the Monkey Celebration, Congressman Peters pictured with Ellis Island Medal of Honor winners Dr. Allen Chan, Sally Wong-Avery, and David Du. Pictured at the San Diego Chinese Academy from left to right: Fah-Seong Liew; Ian Han, President of the San Diego Chinese Cultural Association; Polly Liew, Past President of the San Diego Chinese Art & Cultural Society and Past President of the Chinese Women Association; Grace Liu, San Diego Chinese Academy; Congressman Peters; Linda Young, Taipei Economic and Cultural Office; Sherwin S. Wang, Commissioner of the Overseas Community Affairs Council; Dr. Winnie Davis, MBA Program Chair of the California University of Management and Sciences San Diego. Congressman Scott Peters pictured with students from the San Diego Chinese Academy.
02.03.2016	Last night, Representative Scott Peters (CA-52) sponsored an amendment to H.R. 3700 that will help get San Diego the resources it needs to fight homelessness. The provision would require the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to reopen the public comment period on the Continuum of Care funding formula that determines how federal anti-homelessness funds are allocated. In 2014, despite having the 5th largest homeless population in the country, San Diego received the 23rd most funding. Reopening the public comment period would allow service organizations, housing providers, community leaders, and elected officials the opportunity to provide input on how the formula could be revised to more equitably distribute resources to end homelessness. “This is a significant victory in the years-long fight to get San Diego its fair share of federal funding to help the homeless,” Rep. Peters said. “People working on the ground in our communities deserve to have their voices heard. Unanimous passage of this amendment lets the administration know that this is not just a request coming from San Diego, but from all of the cities adversely affected by this outdated formula.” “We commend Congressman Scott Peters for initiating this action that will hopefully align federal funds for homelessness with needs in San Diego,” said Richard Gentry, President & CEO of the San Diego Housing Commission. The amendment was adopted unanimously by the House. H.R. 3700 was passed by the House, and will now be considered by the Senate. In 2012, HUD proposed new rules on homelessness funding and opened a public comment period which closed in November 2012. In 2013, HUD notified Congress that it intended to reopen the comment period as it worked to develop an updated formula. In a visit to San Diego in October, Secretary Castro also indicated that he intended to reopen the public comment period, but a firm date for this had not been set. The amendment passed yesterday requires HUD to reopen the public comment period on the Continuum of Care Formula no fewer than 30 days after the bill’s enactment, and to keep that period open for no fewer than 60 days. Background on Congressman Peters’ Work on Homelessness: March 2013: Sent a letter to then-HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan advocating for an update to the Continuum of Care funding formula November 2013: Sent letter with Representatives Vargas (CA-51) and Davis (CA-53) asking for a comment period to make revisions to the funding formula September 2014: Sent letter to HUD Secretary Castro advocating for a funding formula update January 2015: Met, and advocated for an update to the funding formula, with Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs Chris O’Connor when Secretary O’Connor was in San Diego for the annual WeAllCount February 2015: Call with officials from HUD and the Department of Veterans Affairs to discuss ending veterans homelessness and revising the outdated federal funding formula May 2015: Met with Secretary Castro on Capitol Hill to discuss the funding formula disparity and to advocate for an update, and the chance for San Diego input on the process June 2015: Had a call with Secretary Castro to continue advocating for an update to the funding formula October 2015: During a visit to San Diego, Secretary Castro announced his intention to reopen public comment on the funding formula.
02.03.2016	Congressman Ami Bera, M.D. (CA-07) and Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) are leading a group of 29 members of Congress to urge the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to take steps to reduce the sky-rocketing costs of generic prescription drugs. In a letter to the FDA, they ask the agency to take two common sense steps to address loopholes that limit competition that permits some drug companies to charge exorbitant prices for generic drugs. The average wait time for a new generic drug to be approved is nearly four years. In 2014, more than 1,400 generic drug applications were filed and not one was approved. Bera and Peters are asking the FDA to expedite the review process for new generic drugs to increase market competition. Without any competition to drive down prices, a drug company can charge an excessive amount, like in the case of Martin Shkreli and Turing Pharmaceuticals. The letter also asks the FDA to examine its Unapproved Drugs Initiative in response to concerns that over-regulation has unintentionally increased prices. This initiative aims to ensure that all drugs on the market before FDA regulation are safe, but Bera and Peters are asking that the program focuses on drugs that pose a serious safety risk, citing the fact that the program has pushed common and long-term treatments off the market, leading to price spikes. “Americans should be able to access quality, affordable prescription medication,” Bera said. “Competition is critical to maintaining reasonable pricing and the backlog in generic drug applications, as well as the unintended consequences of the Unapproved Drugs Initiative, has created opportunities for some irresponsible drug companies to make a lot of money while Americans suffer. This is not acceptable. We urge the FDA to take these common sense steps to help increase competition and lower drug costs.” “Making our generic drug approval process faster and more efficient will increase competition and provide consumers with more affordable options,” Peters said. “This is especially important to the long-term and critically ill who might be taken advantage of by companies like Turing and Valeant who choose to drive up prices because they know these patients don’t have anywhere else to turn for the medicine they need.” http://1.usa.gov/1ULa76D
02.02.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after voting against legislation that would violate the terms of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) with Iran and clear the path for Iran to obtain a nuclear weapon. “We must address Iran’s conventional weapons program and sponsorship of terror through strict sanctions or other means, but today’s proposal would allow Iran to restart its nuclear weapons program by violating the terms of the very agreement that is forcing Iran to dismantle the program. This reckless approach would make us less safe and undermine our global leadership at a time when we face new and dynamic threats.” Peters continued by presenting the Iran Ballistic Missile Prevention and Sanctions Act as a superior approach, “Instead of voting on bills that will never become law, we should be working together on the things we agree on. This proposal would crack down on Iran’s development of ballistic missiles that could be used to threaten Israel without undermining our attempts to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.” Congressman Peters announced his support for the JCPOA in August in an opinion editorial in the San Diego Union Tribune.
01.21.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) gathered with students from the University of California San Diego and leaders of San Diego good governance organizations to mark the 6th anniversary of the Citizen’s United Supreme Court decision, which allows for unlimited anonymous corporate spending in elections. The group included local students and representatives from Common Cause and CALPIRG who gathered to urge Congress to adopt a constitutional amendment to overturn the Citizens United decision that opened the flood gates to unlimited special interest spending in political campaigns. “Citizens United changed the landscape of our elections,” Rep. Peters said. “Ordinary Americans don’t have millions of dollars to spend to support a candidate or special interest, and they don’t have direct access to SuperPACs, that doesn’t mean their votes or priorities should count any less. A system that requires members of Congress to spend countless hours talking to donors instead of talking to constituents is a broken one and it needs to be fixed.” A group of students from CALPIRG’s University of California San Diego Chapter shared their approaches to fixing our elections. “Transparency is just the beginning,” said UCSD first-year Jodie Koh. “We need communities across the country to band together in promoting full disclosure of political spending, policies to empower small donors, and a constitutional amendment to overturn Citizens United once and for all.” Peters continued by speaking about his strategy to improve our elections as part of his Fix Congress Now plan, and he called for requiring dark money SuperPACs to disclose where their money comes from. The Citizens United vs FEC decision, announced 6 years ago today, gave corporations and associations the same free speech rights as people, opening the door for unlimited anonymous political spending by non-profits, corporations, and individuals. This decision has led to the creation of multi-million-dollar Super PACs, which can raise and spend unlimited funds in support of candidates and issues, without disclosing the source of their funding.
01.12.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued the following statement after hearing President Obama’s 7th and final State of the Union Address at the U.S. Capitol: “President Obama’s message of national confidence and working together towards a brighter future is much more representative of the American spirit than the defeatist rhetoric that we have heard from so many political candidates. “By leading in trade and diplomacy, and preparing Americans through early childhood education, STEM, and worker training, we can increase America’s competitiveness in today’s global economy. And by advancing American economic leadership, we also enhance our national security.” “I am encouraged by the President’s direct comments on defeating terrorism, and support his request that Congress debate and vote on a new Authorization of the Use of Military Force. “Finally, I echo President Obama’s calls to tackle gun violence, climate change, and college affordability, and share his belief that in order to do so we must fix a broken Congress and a political system that is overly influenced by money.” Congressman Peters was joined at the speech by San Diegan Joe Musselman, a Navy Special Operations veteran and founder of The Honor Foundation. Peters continued, “The best ideas don’t come from Washington, they come from people like Joe and places like San Diego. As I continue to make veterans’ employment a top priority in Congress, I am honored to have Joe join me at the State of the Union.”
01.08.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52), co-chair of the Congressional Special Operations Forces (SOF) Caucus, announced that San Diegan Joe Musselman, a Navy Special Operations veteran and founder of the Honor Foundation, will be his guest at the State of the Union. The two first met when Rep. Peters visited The Honor Foundation in October of last year and was impressed by Joe’s vision for continuing to serve the SOF community by creating the first transition program in the country specifically tailored to match SOF operators with careers in the private sector. “Joe has collaborated with the UCSD Rady School of Management to build The Honor Foundation into a national model that prepares members of our Special Operations Forces community for private sector positions that match their exceptional leadership skills and ambition. In San Diego, many innovators like Joe Musselman train world-class warriors and bridge the gap between military service and civilian employment. “The best ideas don’t come from Washington, they come from people like Joe and places like San Diego. As I continue to make veterans’ employment a top priority in Congress, I am honored to have Joe join me at the State of the Union.” Joe Musselman served at the Naval Special Warfare Center in San Diego, home to one of two training centers for U.S. Navy SEALs in the country, before launching The Honor Foundation in 2013. The Honor Foundation is a transition institute that offers professional development and career services to prepare Special Operations Forces for private sector careers that match their skills and experience. They have partnered with the Rady School of Management at the University of California San Diego to design a curriculum tailored to the needs of the SOF community.
01.06.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after opposing H.R. 3762, which would strip away health care, including access to affordable birth control, from millions of Americans: “This legislation would rip health care away from 22 million Americans, and deny affordable reproductive care to millions of women. At a time when so many hard-working Americans still struggle to make ends meet, pay off their mortgages, or send their kids to college, the last thing Congress should do is take away their health care. Sending us back to a time when Americans with preexisting conditions can be denied health insurance, forcing them to turn to emergency rooms care coverage entirely, is not the way to make health care work. “Defunding Planned Parenthood is not only bad public health policy, it’s also bad fiscal policy; the majority of the services they provide -- contraception, cancer screenings, pap tests, and HIV and AIDS testing – are preventative care that save on health care costs in the long run. Anyone who would support defunding preventative care for millions of American women and men for political gain is not doing what’s in the best interest of the people they represent.”
01.04.2016	President Obama invited U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) to meet with him and a handful of other members of Congress who have taken a strong stand in the fight to reduce gun violence by encouraging more responsible gun ownership. After the meeting, Peters released the following statement: “Americans are being gunned down in public places all across this nation while members of Congress go to work in buildings secured by police at every entry and do nothing because Republican leadership is afraid to stand up to the gun lobby. “Today’s meeting was about refusing to accept everyday gun violence as normal and taking steps to keep guns out of dangerous hands. I’d much prefer Congressional action, but if Speaker Ryan cannot summon the courage to call a vote on gun safety legislation, the President is left with no choice but to take executive action in order to save American lives. “While these actions are an important step in the right direction, they do not let Congress off the hook. I will continue to remind Speaker Ryan and House leadership of the human cost of their inaction until they allow a vote on bipartisan measures to permanently close deadly loopholes in our background check system.” In November, Rep. Peters signed a letter along with 114 of his colleagues to the President asking him to close loopholes in our background check system through executive action. Specifically, the letter urged the president to clarify the term “engaged in the business” as it pertains to federally licensed firearms dealers to require more sellers to obtain a license and conduct background checks. Currently, loopholes in our federal gun safety laws allow many firearms purchases online or at a gun shows to proceed no questions asked and without a background check. Last month, Rep. Peters began reading the names of mass shooting victims since the tragedy at Sandy Hook in a series of speeches in front of the House of Representatives to remind Speaker Ryan of the human cost of his inaction to curb gun violence. Rep. Peters is an active member of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force and a co-sponsor of the bipartisan King-Thompson background check legislation, which he has been urging leadership to bring up for a vote.
12.21.2015	SAN DIEGO – Today at his San Diego office, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) awarded La Jolla resident and former Private First Class Donald Breitenberg a long overdue Bronze Star for his service in the U.S. Army during World War II. Breitenberg reached out to Peters’ San Diego office in October after learning that he was eligible to receive the Bronze Star because of his combat service as an infantryman in Europe. Breitenberg joined the U.S. Army on March 1st, 1942 at the age of seventeen and went on to earn a Purple Heart and the Combat Infantry Badge. “It was my honor to give Donald Breitenberg this long overdue recognition for his brave service,” Peters said. “Getting our San Diego World War Two veterans the recognition they have earned is the very least we can do to honor our greatest generation and the sacrifices they made for our nation. I am glad that my office and I were able to make this possible, and encourage other veterans and their families to reach out if they need help getting the benefits or recognition they earned through their service.” After the ceremony, Breitenberg reflected on his service including jumping into France seven hours before the D-Day landings, fighting at the Battle of the Bulge, and liberating a German concentration camp. “It just opens up a lot of doors and memories,” Breitenberg said of receiving the Bronze Star. Rep. Peters pins the Bronze Star Medal on former Private First Class Donald Breitenberg. Soon after becoming the Chief of Staff of the Army in 1948, General Omar Bradley chose to recognize all World War II combat veterans by making them eligible to receive the Bronze Star Medal.
12.18.2015	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass a federal spending plan that boosts investment in areas critical to the San Diego priorities Peters has fought for since being elected to Congress. It increases investment in science, provides tax credits and incentives for private sector investment in clean energy, and responsibly funds wildfire prevention. “This spending plan supports several critical San Diego priorities I’ve been fighting for since coming to Congress,” Peters said. “I’ve argued that if Congress can’t do its job and pass a budget, then Congress shouldn’t get a paycheck. Today, Congress did its job and passed a bipartisan spending bill that delivers for San Diego.” “We also added $21 billion to our defense budget which is essential to defeating terrorism and keeping Americans safe both home and abroad,” Peters continued. “In San Diego, where the military represents about a quarter of our economy, it’s also important to our prosperity, and to the livelihoods of the thousands of active duty military that live here.” The Omnibus Appropriations Act, which appropriates Federal spending for the 2016 fiscal year, passed by a broad bipartisan vote of 316 to 113. The package includes $32.1 billion in funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH), $2 billion more than last year. Peters was recognized as the local biotech industry’s legislator of the year in 2014 and 2015, in part, for his effective advocacy for increased NIH investment. Earlier this year, Peters helped pass the 21st Century Cures Act which would increase NIH funds by an additional $8 billion if it passes in the Senate next year. San Diego’s universities and research institutions, which rely heavily on NIH funds, generate $4.6 billion to the region’s economy, and support more than 37,000 jobs. San Diego is the top metro area in the country for NIH research funding, receiving more than $768 million in funding in 2015, which benefits a number of institutions including the University of California San Diego, the La Jolla Institute for Allergy and Immunology, and Scripps Health. The spending plan also goes a long way toward fulfilling Peters’ commitment to fix the federal government’s lack of attention to preventing wildfires, ‘the natural disasters of the west’ that have devastated San Diego over the past decade. It directly funds 100% of the ten-year average the nation spends on fighting wildfires, and provides more than $600 million to help communities better prepare for, prevent and recover from wildfires. Earlier this year, Peters took Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewel on a tour of the district to make the case that better investment in prevention would save lives, homes, and money spent on suppression. This bill does not eliminate the underlying problem of borrowing from prevention funding to fund suppression, but it does make significant strides towards giving communities the resources they need to prevent and fight wildfires. Last year, Peters led the effort in Congress to raise attention to and force a vote on wildfire prevention investment. Peters praised, too, a $17 million increase in Impact Aid, for a total of $1.8 billion. Impact Aid supports public schools that serve large numbers of military children. This is of particular importance to San Diego where nearly 11 percent of students are children of active duty parents. Coronado Unified School District is one of the largest beneficiaries of Impact Aid; it received $1.5 million last year.Other Highlights Increases National Security: Appropriates $514.1 billion in defense spending, a $21.2 billion increase over last year, giving our military leaders the resources and certainty to increase our readiness and keep our nation safe. Military personnel will receive a 1.3% pay raise, and the Department of Defense will continue to be able to pursue alternative energy sources, a priority for both San Diego’s military and clean technology sector. Invests in Renewable Energy and the Environment: Extends both the investment tax credit (ITC) and the production tax credit (PTC), which incentivize solar and wind production. Extending the ITC will drive an estimated $38 billion of private sector investment in solar power nationwide through 2021, and extending the PTC will lead to an additional $35 billion of wind investments, accelerating cost reductions. According to the Department of Energy, these extensions will also cut carbon dioxide emissions by more than 250 million metric tons per year by 2020. SDG&E currently delivers 33% of its energy primarily from wind and solar, and the bill’s investments will help San Diego maintain its commitment to using 100% renewable energy by 2035 as presented in the Climate Action Plan recently unanimously approved by the City. Reauthorizes the Land and Water Conservation Fund, a program that has invested almost $17 million into the San Diego region to restore parks and outdoor spaces, including the Cabrillo National Monument. Finally, it excludes harmful provisions that Republicans attempted to attach to undermine the Clean Power Plan and block an EPA rule that keeps our water free from pollution. Promotes Education: Increases funding for Head Start by $570 million over last year to a total of $9.2 billion. Provides $22.5 billion for Pell Grants to help students pay for college and increases the maximum possible award to $5,915, a $140 increase over last year. Invests in Infrastructure: Provides funding to the General Services Administration to be used at the San Diego Courthouse to make security upgrades and consolidate the child care center onto Federal land. Restores $400 million for the TIGER infrastructure grant program that the House tried to cut earlier this year. In October, the Port of San Diego received a $10 million grant from the TIGER program which Congressman Peters advocated for to improve Port operations and create jobs. Reforms the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA): Requires the FAA to update its community involvement manual and implementation plan to take a more proactive role in engaging communities impacted by new departure and arrival procedures. Congressman Peters and his staff have led the fight against the FAA’s proposed flight path changes from San Diego Airport, and Peters has criticized the FAA’s outreach to the communities that would be affected by increased noise and traffic. Blocked bad policy provisions: Equally important, the bill excluded harmful riders that would have rolled back campaign finance laws; diverted San Diego water to the Central Valley; undermined the United States’ leadership in reducing emissions and keeping our air and water clean; and cut funding to Planned Parenthood.
12.17.2015	– Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted in favor of a large tax policy package that reduces the tax burden of tens of millions of Americans. The Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015 makes permanent a number of credits that lower Federal Income Tax bills for working families, including the Child Tax Credit, the American Opportunity Tax Credit, and the Earned Income Tax Credit. “Increasing opportunity for hardworking Americans means making it easier for them to provide for their families, pay off their mortgages, and afford college for their children.” Rep. Peters said. “Federal Income Taxes should not be a barrier to families working hard toward the American dream, and this bipartisan legislation will keep thousands of dollars in the pockets of parents, students, and working people.” The Child Tax Credit allows families to save $1,000 on their Federal Income Taxes for every dependent they claim. The American Opportunity Tax Credit credits students up to $2,500 on their taxes for tuition and college-related expenses. The Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) reduces the tax burden for working and middle class Americans, and is adjusted based on income and number of dependents. In 2012, 3.2 million Californians claimed an average of $2,271 in returns via the EITC. Rep. Peters continued by highlighting provisions that benefit San Diego’s innovation and research economy, including a permanent extension of the Research and Development Tax Credit, and a delay of the implementation of the medical device tax. “For research and development, we have had the worst of both worlds – we would give a last minute extension whenever it was about to expire, but we never extended the incentive far enough in advance to actually spur investment. Now, with the credit made permanent, innovators know they can rely on this tax incentive to invest in their ideas,” Peters said, adding, “Since coming to Congress, I was in repeated contact with both the White House and Congressional leadership to make clear the importance of repealing the medical device tax. We should be making it easier for entrepreneurs to start their ventures and create jobs, but the medical device tax has penalized innovators in the San Diego region and the over 11,000 workers they support. This two-year delay is an important victory for San Diego’s innovation economy, and I will continue to work to permanently repeal the medical device tax.” Between San Diego, Imperial, Orange, and Riverside Counties there are nearly 250 medical device companies directly employing 11,100 workers, according to BIOCOM. The medical device industry supports nearly $10 billion in economic activity each year in the region and 48,000 direct, indirect, and induced jobs. “AdvaMed appreciates the tireless efforts of Rep. Peters and his staff since his election to Congress to address the medical device tax. Working with research advocates, patient groups, medical technology companies and others, a broad bipartisan legislative effort to suspend the tax has finally come to fruition. Suspending this tax is a win for medical progress and continued research and development,” said JC Scott, senior executive vice president, AdvaMed. Congressman Peters concluded, “This legislation is not perfect, and it once again highlights the pressing need for comprehensive tax and budget reform. However, today’s vote will give families and businesses certainty for next year as we continue to work to grow the economy and create jobs.”
12.15.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement in support of the agreement reached by 196 nations at the COP 21 Paris Climate Summit: “The Paris Climate Change Agreement is a historic and important step to reduce emissions and limit the damage to our climate. I applaud the work of Secretary Kerry, U.S. Special Envoy for Climate Change Todd Sterns, and all of the private sector and government leaders from around the world who came together to make this happen. “The Paris Agreement comes to the same conclusion that we did in San Diego a long time ago: we do not have to choose between a clean environment and a prosperous economy. As much as reducing emissions is a challenge, it is also an opportunity. This agreement is a clear signal that the transition to a clean energy economy is happening now. “As Chairman of the House Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition’s Climate Task Force, I defended efforts to expand the United States’ climate leadership leading up to the Paris talks, and will work to ensure we keep our commitments as part of this agreement. “Earlier this year I led the effort in Congress to support the Green Climate Fund to assist developing countries in adapting to and mitigating climate change, and am glad to see that it will play a central role in ensuring the success of the Paris Agreement. “This agreement also follows the November breakthrough in Dubai to reduce the disproportionate role superpollutants like hydrofluorocarbons play in damaging our climate. Tackling this low hanging fruit can quickly mitigate the worst effects of climate change, and I have worked in Congress to ensure U.S. leadership in reducing superpollutant emissions by introducing the SUPER Act. “San Diego’s innovation has left its mark on this agreement, and will be crucial in ensuring that America keeps its commitments. Qualcomm, the University of California San Diego, and San Diego State University took pledges to curb emissions and invest in energy efficiency and clean energy. The investment in research and development of clean technologies will also see San Diego’s world-class clean tech sector continue to grow and create jobs across our region.” Because of his leadership on climate and energy issues in Congress, Congressman Peters was selected to be part of the Congressional Delegation to attend the Paris Climate Talks. The delegation was cancelled because of unanticipated votes scheduled for last Friday. Earlier this year, he led a House Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition meeting with Todd Sterns, U.S. Special Envoy for Climate Change. Congressman Peters is the sponsor of the Department of Defense Energy Security Act, a vocal proponent of using the Social Cost of Carbon in the rulemaking process, and active member of the Safe Climate Caucus. Congressman Peters has also unveiled his own plan to curb climate change, which includes supporting innovative research and initiatives in San Diego, as well as legislative proposals to make Congress a leader on reducing emissions and mitigating climate change.
12.14.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement on the third anniversary of the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut: “I was elected to Congress just weeks before this horrific day. I’ll never forget thinking about my own children and I vowed that I would use my position to make a difference,” Peters said. “Yet here we are, three years later and Congress has done nothing because House Republican leadership cannot summon the courage to challenge the gun lobby and let us take a stand and vote on bipartisan proposals to honor these victims – these children – with action.” “Today, we remember the lives of the twenty children and six educators that were brutally murdered at Sandy Hook. We honor the resiliency of those families and all the people of Newtown who persevered as they continue to heal from this heartbreaking tragedy. “Since Sandy Hook, at least 161 communities have experienced school shootings, our country has lost 90,000 people to gun deaths, and Congress has done nothing. For as long as it takes, I will remind the Speaker of the human cost of his inaction. Speaker Ryan: it’s time to let Congress take action and pass universal background checks.” Last week, Peters began reading the names of mass shooting victims since the tragedy at Sandy Hook in a series of speeches in front of the House of Representatives. The speeches will continue until Speaker Paul Ryan allows Congress to vote on one of a number of bipartisan proposals to curb the national epidemic of gun violence. Peters read 63 names during three speeches last week, and will carry on the series tomorrow. Videos of these speeches and an updated list of names read in front of the House of Representatives can be found here. Rep. Peters is a co-sponsor of the bipartisan King-Thompson background check legislation and an active member of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force in the U.S. House of Representatives. Currently, loopholes in our gun safety laws allow many firearms purchases online or at a gun shows to proceed no questions asked and without a background check. By closing these loopholes, Congress could keep more firearms out of the hands of criminals, domestic abusers, and the dangerously mentally ill. According to a July survey by the Pew Research Center, 85% of Americans, including majorities of both Republicans and Democrats, favor expanding background checks to cover all gun purchases. According to the same survey, 87% of responsible, gun-owning Americans also support expanding background checks as a way to keep guns out of those who pose a threat to innocent lives.
12.11.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after he helped pass the bipartisan Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 Conference Report: “The United States does not have the tools to quickly and efficiently crack down on trading partners that cheat on agreements and violate our labor, human rights, and environmental standards. This puts the jobs of hardworking Americans at risk, and undermines our ability to ensure we are putting products on shelves that were produced by workers protected by high safety standards. “San Diego is a port city that depends on trade to grow our economy and create high-quality jobs. This bill will strengthen enforcement measures and make it easier to break down unfair barriers. It’s not perfect, but it allows the United States to continue its global leadership in reducing harmful emissions that threaten public health and contribute to climate change. Congressman Peters also voted in favor of the Democratic Motion to Recommit, which would have sent the bill back to the Senate and House Conference with instructions to further improve the human trafficking and environmental provisions. Key Provisions of the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act Ends the importation of goods made with child and forced labor. Reauthorizes the successful State Trade and Export Promotion grant program at the Small Business Administration through 2020 and increases funding for the program by $5 million per year to help small businesses reach new markets and opportunities created by new trade agreements. Introduces a new tool to help companies identify trade surges so that they can act faster when jobs are threatened by unfair trade. Establishes a new process to require quick action on allegations of evasion of duties on unfairly traded goods, including the ENFORCE Act from the Senate as well as provisions from the House PROTECT Act. It enables interested parties to submit evasion allegations, provides expedited timelines for investigations, and authorizes enforcement actions. It also gives CBP and the private sector tools to combat the evasion of antidumping and countervailing duties. Prevents trade agreements from rolling back our laws limiting greenhouse gas emissions.
12.09.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced that he will begin reading the names and ages of mass shooting victims in America since the tragedy at Sandy Hook Elementary School in a series of one-minute speeches on the House floor. The speeches will continue until Speaker of the House Paul D. Ryan channels the will of the American people by allowing Congress to take a vote on one of a number of bipartisan proposals to curb the national epidemic of mass shootings and gun violence. “We stand here in this building, the United States Capitol, secured by police at every door, and do nothing, while men, women and children are being shot dead in broad daylight in public places across this nation. Yet the Speaker of the House cannot summon the courage to let Congress act on even one of any number of bipartisan gun safety proposals that could save lives. "Moments of silence do nothing to honor these victims unless they are followed by moments of action. For as long as it takes, I will remind the Speaker of the human cost of his inaction," he added. Peters said he is demanding Congress adopt new laws that encourage responsible gun ownership while still protecting Second Amendment rights, such as closing the loopholes in gun background checks and keeping guns out of the hands of suspected terrorists, domestic abusers, and the dangerously mentally ill. While he will be reading the names of victims of mass shootings, Peters acknowledges that every death from gun violence is a tragedy that could potentially be prevented with more effective gun safety legislation. "There are responsible gun owners across these United States who support expanded background checks because they know with rights come responsibilities," Peters continued. "I know we can't predict and safeguard against every potential tragedy, but if we can save even just one life, it would be worth it." Rep. Peters is a co-sponsor of the bipartisan King-Thompson background check legislation and a member of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force in the U.S. House of Representatives. Earlier this year, he joined former Republican San Diego Mayor and Police Chief Jerry Sanders and San Diegans in signing a letter to Congressional leaders calling on them to take action to end the epidemic of gun violence across the country. Rep. Peters delivered the same letter to Speaker Ryan last week. According to a July survey by the Pew Research Center, 85% of Americans, including majorities of both Republicans and Democrats, favor expanding background checks to cover all gun purchases. According to the same survey, 87% of responsible, gun-owning Americans also support expanding background checks as a way to keep guns out of those who pose a threat to innocent lives.
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass bipartisan legislation to close gaps in the Visa Waiver Program (VWP) that could be exploited by terrorists to gain entry into the United States. Currently, travelers from countries that participate in the VWP can visit the U.S. for 90 days or less without any screening. This bill will require travelers who have recently visited nations considered ‘state sponsors of terrorism’ and other ‘areas of concern’ to apply for a regular visitor visa, like travelers from many other nations. The bill passed by a broad bipartisan vote of 407-19 with support from Democratic Leadership, President Obama, and the entirety of the San Diego Congressional delegation. “In the face of increasingly dynamic and dangerous threats posed by ISIS, Al Qaeda, and other terrorist groups, Congress must give our intelligence agencies the tools to keep our communities safe. Closing gaps in our Visa Waiver program is a smart and targeted approach to preventing terrorists from entering the United States without impeding regular travel,” Peters said. “It does not deny travelers from these nations the ability to come here, but it does ask them to apply and interview for a visa, like travelers from so many other nations currently do.” Key Provisions of the Visa Waiver Improvement Act of 2015 Requires non-citizens who visited Iraq, Syria, Sudan, or Iran since 2011 to apply for a visitor visa, which includes an application, in-person interview at a U.S. Embassy or consulate, and fingerprint scans. Requires VWP participants to continually share terrorism and foreign traveler date and requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to suspend a country’s participation if they fail to meet this requirement. Requires VWP participants to screen all passengers against INTERPOL’s criminal and law enforcement data and report lost and stolen passports within 24 hours, and requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to suspend a country’s participation if they fail to meet this requirement. Requires VWP participants to use Electronic Passports with biometric enabled chips by April 1, 2016. Allows the Secretary of Homeland Security to suspend a country’s VWP participation if it is deemed “high risk.”
12.04.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) emphasized the importance of the UN Climate Talks in Paris and the potential for an international agreement to reduce harmful emissions and curb climate change. “The United States, led by the President’s Clean Power Plan and the innovation of our private sector, is becoming a global leader in reducing emissions to mitigate the worst effects of climate change. The stakes have never been higher, but the momentum leading up to the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris, driven by the commitments of American business leaders and over 180 countries around the world, means there is a real opportunity to craft a historical, binding agreement to protect our planet for the next generation.” Congressman Peters, who is the Chairman of the House Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition’s Climate Task Force, also unveiled his own plan to curb climate change. The plan includes supporting innovative research and initiatives in San Diego, as well as legislative proposals to make Congress a leader on reducing emissions and mitigating climate change. “For too long we have heard that we have to choose between a prosperous economy and a clean environment; that is a false choice that my climate plan rejects. San Diego, with leadership from its military, research, and business communities, has implemented innovative solutions that reduce emissions and spur economic growth and job creation. My plan to curb climate change not only supports these initiatives, it also brings many of these ideas to Washington to increase energy efficiency, invest in our clean tech economy, and keep our air and water clean to protect the health of children and families.” Congressman Peters, a former environmental attorney, is the sponsor of the Department of Defense Energy Security Act, a vocal proponent of using the Social Cost of Carbon in the rulemaking process, and active member of the Safe Climate Caucus.
12.04.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, in response to yesterday's shootings in Houston, Savannah, and San Bernardino, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) took to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to express outrage over Speaker of the House Paul Ryan's refusal to allow Congress to vote on common sense, bipartisan proposals to curb gun violence. Earlier this week, Congressman Peters delivered a letter to Speaker Ryan signed by San Diegans, urging him to let Congress vote to close loopholes in our background check system. The full transcript of his remarks: “Thank you Mr. Speaker. Over a month ago, I stood in this Chamber and delivered a message from San Diegans calling on Congress to expand background checks for gun purchases. Since then congress has done nothing. Last week, a gunman attacked a Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado Springs. What did Congress do? Nothing. Yesterday, there were deadly shootings in Houston, Savannah, and San Bernardino, where 17 people were killed at a social service center. And today here we stand, in the only building in the nation that could do something to curb this awful violence, and we cannot even get the Speaker of this House to let Congress vote -- to let us act -- on one of the several proposed laws that many of my colleagues and I support. Thoughts and prayers are not enough. Moments of silence are not enough. Maybe, Mr. Speaker, instead of a moment of silence, the American people will get a moment of action. A moment of action that might keep their community from being next. If we want to honor these victims and their families, then we should do our jobs. And we should act now. Thank you Mr. Speaker. I yield back.” To view a video of his remarks click HERE or on the image below. Rep. Peters is a co-sponsor of the bipartisan King-Thompson background check legislation and a member of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force in the U.S. House of Representatives. Earlier this year, he joined former Mayor and Police Chief of San Diego Jerry Sanders and San Diegans in signing a letter to Congressional leaders calling on them to take action to end the epidemic of gun violence across the country. Rep. Peters delivered the same letter to Speaker Ryan this week.
12.01.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted against two separate attempts to obstruct the Environmental Protection Agency’s Clean Power Plan. The Clean Power Plan would allow states, localities, and energy utility companies to set standards for reducing emissions and encourage investments in innovative, sustainable energy production. The plan calls for reducing carbon pollution from U.S. power plants by 32% by the year 2030, and is expected to save the average American family nearly $85 on their energy bills. “Reducing emissions from power plants – the largest emitters of harmful pollutants in our country – is a significant action that will boost our economy, benefit public health, and save hard working families money by cutting energy bills. The resolutions put forth by House Leadership today were not only an attempt to gut the Clean Power Plan, but they also failed to offer any credible alternative plan to keep our air and water clean for the next generation. At a time when world leaders are coming together in Paris to reach a historic accord to slow climate change, Congress should be leading the way to support them, not undermining them.” The Clean Power Plan was released by the EPA in August, and can be read in full HERE. Congressman Peters voted against S.J. Res. 23, which would block the EPA rule to make newly constructed power plants cleaner, and S.J. Res. 24, which would block the EPA rule to make existing power plants cleaner.
12.01.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Before the Thanksgiving holiday, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped introduce the Hygiene Assistance for Families of Infants and Toddlers Act of 2015, which would fund state programs to distribute diapers to low income families with children under the age of three. The bill asks states to determine how to administer these programs that get diapers to needy families, for example through voucher cards, distribution centers, or child care programs. According to a study in Pediatrics, 30% of American mothers have said that they lack sufficient diapers for their children, which increases stress on the family and endangers children’s health and development. Lack of an adequate supply of diapers is also an impediment to gainful employment. Many child care facilities require parents to provide enough diapers for their children when they are dropped off. “Many hardworking San Diego families struggle to meet the costs of rent, food, and transportation, and are unable to afford diapers for their infants or toddlers,” Rep. Peters said. “By helping parents meet basic hygiene needs for their children, this bill will improve children’s health and eliminate a barrier to success for America’s working families.” Congressman Peters is an original cosponsor of The Hygiene for Families of Infants and Toddlers Act. With this legislation, states would be required to submit plans for their programs to the Department of Health and Human Services detailing how they would distribute the diapers, evaluate the program, and report on its success.
11.19.2015	U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement on the United States’ response to the Paris terrorist attacks and defense against terrorist threats after voting in favor of the American SAFE Act: “America stands by our oldest ally France, as they have with us throughout history. The attacks in Paris were abhorrent and shocking, and San Diegans and people across the country are shaken by the real threats posed by ISIS and other terrorist groups. “President Obama has explained how the United States’ process for screening refugees is the most thorough and advanced in the world. Our process incorporates biometric checks, medical screenings, and stringent investigations with international intelligence agencies to ensure that every individual we allow to enter is not a threat to national security. However, the Administration has not made the case to me that today’s bill will shut down or unduly delay our existing process. It is not too burdensome for federal agencies to certify that admitted refugees will not endanger our communities. To the contrary, the Administration should embrace this opportunity to stand behind its process. This bill does not close our borders, halt our acceptance of refugees fleeing violence and oppression, impose a religious test or otherwise undermine the values and freedoms that make our country so great. “While I supported today’s bill, I believe that Mr. Thompson’s alternative bill provides a more comprehensive and effective approach. Unfortunately, Speaker Ryan would not permit its consideration. Today’s bill was rushed to the floor after two hastily convened hearings but without committee mark-up and amendments. The promise of an open House of Representatives following regular order appears to have been wildly exaggerated, and House leadership seems more interested in Thanksgiving political talking points than deliberative legislation. “Now, Congress must be one step ahead and develop smarter tactics to keep terrorists from entering the United States by other means. The European Visa Waiver Program allows European citizens to enter the US without screening, regardless of their background. Many of the Paris attackers were disaffected French citizens, and under the current system they could buy a plane ticket and enter the United States tomorrow.” The American SAFE Act requires the Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Director of National Intelligence to certify to Congress that individuals applying for refugee status in the United States do not pose a security threat. Peters also called for Congress to pass the ‘Treason and Passport Revocation Act,’ which he previously introduced with Rep. Juan Vargas. It would require the Secretary of State to deny or revoke the passports of anyone determined to be a member of, or affiliated with, a foreign terrorist organization, and would amend the U.S. Code to deem this membership or affiliation an act of treason. “Those who side with terrorist organizations, be it ISIS, Al Qaeda, or others, should not be allowed to freely return to this country.” Earlier in the week, Congressman Peters met with representatives of the Kurdistan Regional Government to receive an update on the fight against ISIS, and to discuss ways that Congress can continue to be supportive. He also participated in a House Armed Services Committee hearing with U.S. military officials on the threat posed by ISIS.
11.17.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) was recognized by the House Small Business Committee for promoting entrepreneurship during a hearing on National Entrepreneurs’ Day. While not a member of the Committee, Congressman Peters is the top Democratic supporter of Committee Chairman Steve Chabot’s bipartisan resolution to permanently recognize the importance of entrepreneurs to fostering innovation, growing the economy, and creating jobs. During the hearing, Congressman Peters engaged with entrepreneurs on his initiatives to cut red tape to make it easier for entrepreneurs and startups to compete. “At the heart of America is the idea that you can start your own business and build it to be successful,” Rep. Peters said. “In San Diego, a commitment to supporting entrepreneurs and startups from leaders like Duane Roth has been essential to economic progress and creating jobs. Congress must eliminate barriers to success for small businesses, from burdensome regulations to the tax code, and send the message that National Entrepreneurs’ Day is just the beginning of giving our innovators the support they need.” “At a time when business deaths are outnumbering business births, it is vitally important that we do all we can to promote American entrepreneurship,” Chairman Steve Chabot (R-OH) said. “Whether it is making the SBA more efficient, rolling back burdensome regulations or reforming an outdated tax code, America’s entrepreneurs need to know we have their back in these difficult times. National Entrepreneurs’ Day is an opportunity for policymakers from both sides of the aisle to recognize the contributions of our job creators and reaffirm our commitment to help them however we can.” Last year, Congressman Peters led the resolution to designate the third Tuesday of November as National Entrepreneurs’ Day in honor of the late Duane Roth. This year, he is the lead Democratic cosponsor of Congressman Steve Chabot’s (OH-01) legislation, H. Res 511. Watch the video of Congressman Peters’ remarks HERE.
11.17.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) testified in front of the House Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Health in support of his bipartisan bill, the “Marriage and Family Therapists for Veterans Act.” The bill would help San Diego veterans and their families struggling with mental health issues by making it easier for California-licensed marriage and family therapists to work in Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers. “We must get veterans access to the care they have earned and provide them and their families with the necessary tools to overcome unseen battle scars,” Rep. Peters said. “Marriage and family therapists are a key component to helping our servicemembers and veterans re-enter civilian life, particularly after time in combat zones. By eliminating excessive certification requirements, we can make it easier for VA Hospitals to fulfill the comprehensive needs of our veterans and their families.” The Marriage and Family Therapists for Veterans Act would adjust eligibility requirements to allow the VA to consider the applications of marriage and family therapists certified by regionally accredited programs. To watch a video of Congressman Peters’ testimony, click HERE.
11.13.2015	San Diego – Last evening, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) was honored by Biocom as the “Elected Official of the Year.” The award recognizes Congressman Peters’ advocacy for federal scientific research and commitment in Congress to promoting San Diego’s world-renowned biotechnology industry. Peters, who shares the award with Speaker Toni Atkins, is the first legislator to receive the award for two consecutive years. This is also Peters’ third time receiving the award; he was also given the honor in 2008, when he was San Diego City Council President. “San Diego is a global leader in biotechnology, the life sciences, innovation and research. These dynamic industries create and support high-quality jobs across our region,” Rep. Peters said. “It is an honor to receive this award, but mostly I am grateful to BIOCOM staff and members for the education, backup, and support they have given me. The education they provide to legislators helps us become better, smarter advocates for jobs, economic growth, and life-saving therapies and research.” “It is with great pleasure that Biocom presents Congressman Scott Peters with our Elected Official of the Year award for the second year in a row,” said Joe Panetta, President and CEO of Biocom. “Scott has proven himself to be a leading voice for the life science industry, not only for Southern California but for the country, from co-founding a Life Science Caucus in the House of Representatives to his efforts to repeal the medical device tax to advocating for balanced and targeted patent reform. Biocom looks forward to continuing working with Congressman Peters to advance the interests of our life science community.” Throughout his time in Congress, Congressman Peters has fought for the San Diego region’s biotechnology and life sciences industries and their legislative priorities. In 2015, Congressman Peters led a bipartisan charge against misguided patent legislation that threatens to undermine America’s innovation economy. He also introduced legislation to promote the use of wireless medical technologies to help bend the cost curve of health care, helped pass a repeal of the harmful medical device excise tax in the House of Representatives, and, most recently, launched the bipartisan Life Science Caucus. Congressman Peters serves the 52nd District of California which covers much of central San Diego County including Poway, Coronado, and large portions of the City of San Diego. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and House Judiciary Committee. The Congressman is a former environmental attorney, City Council President, and Port Commission Chairman.
11.11.2015	SAN DIEGO – U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement in honor of Veterans Day. Rep. Peters is participating in the Mt. Soledad Veterans Day ceremony later this afternoon. “Veterans Day is a time to thank our veterans and their families for their service and sacrifice to our country. San Diego is a proud military town that embraces its role in our nation’s security. “As we continue reforming the culture of complacency at the Department of Veterans Affairs, I am focused on ways to improve mental health care and give veterans new ways to access care when the VA is failing them. As veterans in San Diego know, we cannot wait for Congress to get its act together. Instead we must continue to connect veterans with effective services and resources as they return to civilian life. “We must also renew our commitment to ending the stigma around mental health care and to ending the chronic homelessness that too many veterans in San Diego are facing.” Rep. Peters recorded a video to honor Veterans Day. Watch the video HERE, or click the image below.
11.10.2015	SAN DIEGO – Today, Rep. Scott Peters (CA-52) and Rep. Eric Swalwell (CA-15) announced two pieces of legislation designed to spur student incubators and entrepreneurship. The announcement was made after the Congressmen toured UC San Diego’s Qualcomm Institute where they saw demonstrations from student companies who had used the incubator to start and grow their companies. Peters and Swalwell also held a student town hall where they answered questions from students on issues ranging from starting your own business to making college more affordable. “Students at universities in San Diego and across the country have creative and new ideas that they want to turn into innovative products,” Rep. Peters said. “Unfortunately, many students burdened by student loan debt and facing competitive job markets abandon entrepreneurship, which is harming our economy and our ability to compete in the global marketplace. Effective student incubators can change that, and these bills will help universities across the country provide the support that students need – from shared work space to marketing – to launch a successful business.” Swalwell, who represents East Bay, is in San Diego as Chair of the Future Forum, a group of the youngest Democratic Members of Congress focused on bridging the gap between Congress and young Americans by discussing student debt, future job opportunities, and entrepreneurship. The Future Forum was launched in April, and San Diego is the 8th city that it has visited. “Because of rising student loans, entrepreneurship among young Americans is at 24-year-low. We shouldn’t let student loan debt hold millennials back from pursuing their entrepreneurial dreams,” said Rep. Swalwell. “Universities and colleges can provide the perfect environment to foster innovation and entrepreneurship. However, many schools lack the resources to invest in an incubator. I’m honored to join Scott Peters to introduce legislation to give more students opportunities to get businesses off the ground.” “The University of California San Diego commends Rep. Peters for his proactive focus on the promising intellectual capacity resident in our students and faculty through incubators and accelerators on campuses such as UC San Diego,” said Angela Phillips Diaz, Executive Director of Government Research Relations at UCSD. “Raising the visibility of these promising enterprises and the critical role they play in economic development and furthering US competitiveness by enhancing the collaboration between the innovation and intellectual talent resident at our universities directly with the business community can generate impactful results. This legislation can serve as a pivotal leverage point for incentivizing the creation of new accelerators and incubators like the QualComm Institute at UC San Diego.” This afternoon, Peters and Swalwell visited Zeeto, a digital marketing startup in Downtown San Diego. After a tour, the members held a forum with local startup founders about the challenges of starting a business in California and to hear policy recommendations on how to make our state more friendly to entrepreneurs. Background on the bills announced by Reps. Peters and Swalwell: Start-Up America’s Students Act – Would establish a competitive grant program to provide funding to eligible institutions for establishing, maintaining, expanding, and improving upon business incubators operated by or affiliated with universities and colleges. With this funding, universities and colleges would be able to provide a space for shared resources, institutional knowledge, and technical support to help new and startup businesses. Building Opportunities for Student Startups (BOSS) Act – To better understand the role played by incubators, the BOSS Act would study the role incubators and accelerators, including those based at universities, play in the commercialization of federally-funded research and regional economic development. It would compare outcomes and identify best practices from leading accelerators and incubators around the country.
11.09.2015	Rep. Peters Letter to Defense Secretary Carter: No GITMO Detainees at Miramar WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Ash Carter continuing to advocate against the potential moving of prisoners from the Guantanamo Bay Detention Facility to the Marine Corps Air Station Miramar (MCAS) Brig. Rep. Peters noted his opposition to moving prisoners to Miramar earlier this year when Department of Defense officials listed the site as a potential transfer site. The letter can be read HERE or in full below: [BEGIN TEXT] Dear Secretary Carter, As the Congressional Representative for San Diego, I write to you today to express my deep concern with the news that Miramar Brig is being considered a potential location for housing Guantanamo detainees. I urge you to remove Miramar from consideration. Regardless of whether or not we agree on whether to give the Pentagon the flexibility to look at ways to close Guantanamo, we agree that any potential location for housing Guantanamo prisoners should be in a remote location, away from populated areas, in a maximum security facility from which no prisoner has ever escaped, and that has experience housing the most dangerous criminals. The Miramar Brig does not meet that criteria and I urge the Department of Defense and the Department of Justice to remove Miramar from consideration. Sincerely, Scott Peters Member, U.S. House of Representatives (CA-52) [END TEXT]
11.09.2015	SAN DIEGO – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced the second-annual Congressional App Challenge, which helps spur student interest in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM). High school students in the 52nd District will compete to create their own software application (App) to be judged by a panel of San Diego’s tech and innovation leaders. The winner will have their app on display in the United States Capitol building. “This competition is a great chance to showcase San Diego’s talented students and our region’s dynamic innovation ecosystem,” Rep. Peters said. “Across San Diego, leaders in STEM fields are changing the way we live our lives and are working on break-through research. The App Contest gives students the ability to compete against their peers and hone the critical creative and problem-solving skills that our region and our country will need to be economically competitive in an increasingly global war for talent.” Established by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, the Congressional App Challenge is a nationwide event that allows high school students from across the country to compete by creating and exhibiting their app for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. The contest is open to all high school students in the 52nd Congressional District. Students entering the competition must submit their app’s source code online during the Competition Submission Period between November 09, 2015, and January 15, 2016, as well as provide a YouTube or VIMEO video demo explaining their app and what they learned through this competition process. For more information on how to participate, please visit Congressman Peters’ website at scottpeters.house.gov/houseappcontest, visit challenge.gov, or contact Brian Elliott at (858) 455-5550.
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass the first comprehensive federal transportation planning bill since 2009. The bill makes investments in infrastructure including highways, transit programs, and roadway safety and makes significant streamlining reforms to the current environmental review system that is often duplicative and overly burdensome. “Across San Diego and the rest of the country our roads are in disrepair, bridges are failing, and transit systems need long-term investments,” said Rep. Peters. “Today’s bill gives states and planning organizations, including SANDAG in our region, the ability to plan for the future. And it gives transit agencies like our Metropolitan Transit System (MTS) more opportunities to compete for grant funding. Peters continued, “This bill also makes desperately needed reforms to the often redundant environmental review processes. These changes will both protect our environment for future generations and get good projects moving more quickly, creating jobs and moving our economy forward sustainably. “It is well understood that the current 18.4-cent per gallon federal gas tax – which has not been raised since 1993 – does not provide the funding necessary to the Highway Trust Fund to make needed upgrades to our highway and transit systems. As mile-per-gallon ratings increase in cars and trucks, and as more families move to hybrid, alternative-fuel, and electric vehicles, this funding source will only dwindle further.” Rep. Peters concluded, “Today’s bill will support California’s innovative efforts on a vehicle-miles-traveled pilot program as we work to find a long-term replacement to the current system.” The bill will now be combined with a slightly different version that passed the U.S. Senate earlier this summer before it can become law. Issues of Interest to San Diego: Increased funds available for highway projects in California from $3.59 billion in Fiscal Year 2016 to $3.98 billion in Fiscal Year 2021 Increased funds available for transit projects in California from $1.25 billion in Fiscal Year 2016 to $1.37 billion in Fiscal Year 2021 For the first time, the Department of Transportation will develop a National Freight Program that will increase American competitiveness by integrating numerous modes of freight traffic among trucks, railways, ports, and border crossings Expanded opportunities for San Diego’s Metropolitan Transit System to compete for bus and bus-facility upgrade funding $20 million pilot program for states, which California will be in prime position to access, on feasibility of replacing the deficient federal gas tax with a vehicle-miles-traveled user fee system Four-year reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank; since 2007, 43 companies in San Diego, including 25 small businesses, have exported $3 billion worth of goods with the help of the Ex-Im Bank ###
11.03.2015	Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) was honored by the Healthcare Leadership Council as a “Champion of Healthcare Innovation.” The award recognizes Congressman Peters’ support of patient-centered medical progress and work to protect Medicare choices for seniors. “As we work to make the healthcare system more innovative and responsive to the needs of patients, we must also ensure that San Diego’s seniors are able to access the Medicare coverage that they depend on and have earned,” said Rep. Peters. “San Diego is home to numerous companies that are creating new technologies to improve wireless medicine and enhance the quality of care. Congress should support these efforts that will help generations of seniors, instead of miring needed advancements in unnecessary red tape.” “In Congress, Representative Peters has been a champion of using wireless technology to elevate healthcare quality and cost-efficiency and he has been a leader in improving access to healthcare for seniors through Medicare Advantage,” said Mary R. Grealy, President of the Healthcare Leadership Council. “We applaud him for his dedication to patients and healthcare consumers, and to an innovative and sustainable healthcare system.” Throughout his time in Congress, Congressman Peters has fought to bring more innovative technologies to the healthcare system, particularly for veterans, as a way to improve patient care and outcomes while reducing inefficiency. Rep. Peters has also been a consistent advocate against cuts to the Medicare Advantage program.
11.02.2015	Rep. Peters Helps Pass Bill to Maximize Communications Following a Terrorist Attack WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass legislation to improve communications capabilities between Federal agencies during potential terrorist attacks. “As we hope for the best and prepare for the worst, it is essential that federal, state, and local governments have the right information to respond to an attack and keep our communities safe. San Diego has experience in collaborative information sharing and this bill will help get the best practices in place for decision-makers should we ever be faced with an attack here at home.” The legislation reduces inefficiencies at the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) National Network of Fusion Centers, which serve as information coordination points for local, state, and federal governments in preventing, protecting against and responding to terrorism. There are five Fusion Centers in California including the San Diego Law Enforcement Coordination Center. ###
11.02.2015	Rep. Scott Peters Again Calls on FAA to Hear Residents’ Concerns, Keep LOWMA Waypoint WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) continued his advocacy on behalf of concerned residents in Point Loma and Ocean Beach by sending another letter to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Michael Huerta. The letter restated Peters’ opposition to the proposed removal of the LOWMA waypoint for eastbound departures from San Diego International Airport and called on the FAA to do a much better and faster job of responding to the very real concerns of residents within and around the flight path. Congressman Peters’ letter can be read HERE. In the last few months, Congressman Peters has heard from hundreds of concerned constituents and he previously sent the FAA Administrator a letter outlining his initial concerns. Members of Rep. Peters’ staff have met with the FAA and were in attendance at last month’s community forum in Liberty Station as well as at the San Diego Airport Authority’s recent Noise Advisory Council meeting. ###
10.30.2015	Rep. Peters Congratulates Port of San Diego on $10 million in Federal Grant Funding SAN DIEGO – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after the Department of Transportation announced that the Port of San Diego will receive $10 million from the TIGER Grant program for planned upgrades at the 10th Avenue Marine Terminal: “These upgrades have been important to the Port since I was myself a Port Commissioner,” said Rep. Peters. “The investment made possible in part by this grant funding will improve the efficiency of the Port’s operations and help increase work opportunities in both the short and long-term, benefiting our region’s economy. Funding for necessary infrastructure upgrades is scarce and the Port Commission and its dedicated staff deserve an immense amount of credit for their hard work throughout this competitive bidding process. I look forward to seeing first-hand the construction and completion of this needed project at 10th Avenue.” Congressman Peters served on the San Diego Unified Port Commission from 2009 until 2012, including as Chairman in 2011. “Transportation is always about the future. If we're just fixing today's problems, we'll fall further and further behind. We already know that a growing population and increasing freight traffic will require our system to do more,” said Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx. “In this round of TIGER, we selected projects that focus on where the country’s transportation infrastructure needs to be in the future; ever safer, ever more innovative, and ever more targeted to open the floodgates of opportunity across America.” To support the Port’s application for TIGER Grant funding, Congressman Peters sent a letter to Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx in May and called the Secretary last month to continue advocating. This year, $500 million worth of funding was awarded through the TIGER program after $10 billion in project applications were submitted, making it one of the most competitive grant processes in the federal government. ###
10.29.2015	Rep. Scott Peters’ Statement on New Speaker of the House Paul Ryan WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after a majority of the House of Representatives selected Wisconsin Republican Paul Ryan as the next Speaker of the House: “I look forward to working with Speaker Ryan to pass legislation that helps hard-working families successfully navigate the future and supports businesses as they create high-quality jobs in San Diego and communities across the country. It is my hope that he will engage with moderate Democrats to find bipartisan solutions to the range of pressing issues Congress faces including on transportation and infrastructure and keeping government open. We know that the American people, and San Diego’s families, are best served when Members of Congress work together instead of in spite of each other.” ###
10.28.2015	Rep. Scott Peters Highlights #SDinDC with zero8hundred at Armed Services Committee WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after Sean Mahoney, Executive Director of San Diego-based zero8hundred, testified at the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Military Personnel about transition assistance programs: “It is a good day when we can bring expertise from San Diego to Washington, D.C., to inform Congress and set an example for other communities around the country. Congresswoman Susan Davis deserves particular credit, as Ranking Member of the Military Personnel Subcommittee, for making today’s testimony possible. “San Diego is home to one of the premier transition-assistance programs in the country, helping servicemembers and their families as they leave the military and return to civilian life. Innovative, collaborative programs like zero8hundred can serve as a national model as we work to support our veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan.” Background on Rep. Peters’ Work with zero8hundred: Early in 2013, Rep. Peters met with local advocates to find out how to best leverage his new role to support San Diego’s transitioning service members and veterans. The consensus among these leaders was that while San Diego is home to some of the best organizations and services for veterans, it needed a centrally coordinated hub for transitioning service members to find services, job training, and employment opportunities. zero8hundred is the product of these discussions and nearly two years of planning. This past January, zero8hundred was implemented at Naval Base San Diego and Naval Base Coronado. Congressman Peters and representatives from zero8hundred met with Secretary of Veterans Affairs Robert McDonald in May, 2015, to discuss the program. ###
10.28.2015	Rep. Scott Peters Supports Two-Year Budget Deal, Calls on Congress to Get to Work on Long-term Fiscal Issues WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after voting in favor of the bipartisan two-year budget deal that also suspends the debt ceiling until March of 2017: “Since coming to Congress, I have fought to end the misguided, arbitrary, across-the-board cuts known as sequester, particularly given the harm they have on our military readiness and the ability of national security leaders to effectively plan for the future. I supported today’s deal because it gives necessary sequester relief to both the military and numerous domestic programs that have struggled to provide needed services to working families in San Diego. “Importantly this deal also avoids the economic disaster that would ensue from breaching the debt ceiling, which we are just days away from again. Suspending the debt ceiling until 2017 allows the economy to continue its upward growth without fear of a credit downgrade or massive upheaval. We should use the intervening period to pass my debt-ceiling bills that limit the ability of Congress to play games with our nation’s credit while forcing real conversations about reducing our long-term national debt. “I do have strong objections to the way this deal was negotiated -- by party leaders behind closed doors and with zero input from the vast majority of Congress -- and with some of the budgetary gimmicks that are used to ‘pay’ for some of the increased spending. Congress should get its act together and start the necessary work now instead of waiting for the next self-inflicted crisis deadline to arise.” ###
10.27.2015	Rep. Scott Peters’ Statement on Authorization of Job-Creating Export-Import Bank WASHINGTON, DC – This evening, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after he helped pass bipartisan legislation to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank. The Ex-Im Bank helps American companies sell their products to overseas customers by helping finance exports. “The Ex-Im Bank is one of the best ways to grow the economy, create jobs here in the United States, and ship products to markets across the world with a ‘Made-in-America’ sticker attached,” Rep. Peters said. “Since 2007, 43 companies in San Diego, including 25 small businesses, have exported $3 billion worth of goods with the help of the Ex-Im Bank.” Peters continued, “The vote to reopen Ex-Im only happened because a group of Republicans who want to create high-quality private-sector jobs finally bucked their party leaders and joined with Democrats to help get this done. There are other significant areas where the majority of Congress, and the majority of the American people, agrees including infrastructure, immigration, and background checks on firearm purchases, but a small segment of the Republican majority keeps anything from happening, leaving American families frustrated and bewildered at Congressional inaction.” In 2014, the Export-Import Bank generated $675 million in surplus for the U.S. Treasury and supported 164,000 jobs. “California, and San Diego specifically, benefit from the Export-Import Bank’s facilitation of exports,” said Bo Reed, Chair of the San Diego & Imperial District Export Council. “In the last seven years, Ex-Im has assisted more than 1100 California companies to export more than $26 billion in sales. We appreciate Congressman Peters’ work to keep Ex-Im open and are confident that it will help create Made-In-America jobs in our region.” ###
10.27.2015	Reps. Peters, Lance Launch Congressional Life Science Caucus WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Scott Peters (D, CA-52) and Leonard Lance (R, NJ-07) launched the Congressional Life Science Caucus. “The life sciences are driving innovative breakthroughs that are saving lives and changing the face of medicine in our country,” said Congressman Peters. “In San Diego our life-sciences sector is a hub for high-quality job creation, helping to grow the region’s economy and drawing talented individuals from across the country and the world to our communities. Washington, D.C., is not the kind of atmosphere that generates tomorrow’s solutions, and it is my hope that we can use this caucus to bring experts from across the country to D.C. as we work to make informed public policy decisions.” “Biocom commends Congressmen Scott Peters (D-CA) and Leonard Lance (R-NJ) on co-founding the Congressional Life Science Caucus. The group will serve as a forum dedicated to discussing and educating fellow Members on issues relevant to the life sciences, such as funding biomedical research, supporting scientists and small life science companies, protecting innovation from infringement, and promoting STEM education,” said Joe Panetta, President and CEO of Biocom. “California Life Sciences Association (CLSA) commends Reps. Scott Peters (D-CA) and Leonard Lance (R-NJ) on the creation of the Congressional Life Sciences Caucus, which will help strengthen the dialogue in Congress over the issues affecting the life sciences sector,” said Sara Radcliffe, President & CEO, California Life Sciences Association (CLSA). “With 2,700 companies employing nearly 300,000 people all across the state, California’s life sciences community is an increasingly important driver of our economy and - most important - the source of promising innovations for patients and consumers around the world. We look forward to working with the Caucus under the leadership of Rep. Peters and Rep. Lance to inform policymakers about the exciting contributions of America’s world-leading life sciences innovation ecosystem.” ###
10.21.2015	Rep. Peters Introduces Bills to Reform Dangerous Debt Ceiling Games, Protect American Economic Recovery WASHINGTON, DC – Late yesterday, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) introduced his two-part legislative package that will end the consistent fiscal brinksmanship that has jeopardized our continued economic growth. The first bill, H.R. 3774, the “Protect America’s Credit Act,” would prevent the unnecessary uncertainty that Congress causes the economy by threatening not to pay America’s bills. The second, H.R. 3775, the “Pay Down the Debt Act,” would reduce the national debt by requiring legislators, regardless of political party or rank, to cut the debt if it is rising as a share of the economy. “Our economy, and the American people, cannot afford for Congress to play games with our national debt. Reckless gamesmanship threatens our global leadership and undercuts our ability to expand opportunities for families here at home,” Rep. Peters said. “This legislation will ensure that the government pays its bills and does not default on its credit. It is still too easy right now for a small faction in Congress to put the entire economy at risk in order to score political points.” In 2011, the lengthy delay in increasing the debt limit contributed to sluggish economic growth, caused a drop of nearly 2000 points in the stock market, cost taxpayers $19 billion, according to the Bipartisan Policy Center, from higher borrowing costs, and resulted in the first ever downgrade in the U.S. credit rating. “The legislation introduced by Representative Scott Peters would deal with our nation’s debt and the debt limit in a responsible manner. The legislation would make the debt limit a more meaningful indication of our fiscal health, and establish a mechanism to ensure Congress and the President act in advance of a crisis if the debt is projected to begin growing faster than the economy,” said Maya MacGuineas, President of Campaign to Fix the Debt. “The current debt limit, tied to a fixed dollar cap, is arbitrary and threatens our economy,” Robert Bixby, Executive Director of The Concord Coalition said. “Tying it to a more meaningful measure such as GDP is a more sensible approach, and we applaud Congressman Peters for advancing that discussion.” Background on Rep. Peters’ Bills to End the Debt Games: The two part process will address both the economic danger of debt growing faster than the economy as well as the economic uncertainty caused by consistent threats to breach the debt ceiling. These bills, which Congressman Peters also introduced in the last Congress, will take specific actions to protect our economic recovery and lower the national debt: Index the debt limit to Gross Domestic Product (GDP), so that Congress would not need to increase the debt limit if debt remains stable or is declining as a share of our economy If the debt is growing as a share of our GDP, Congress and the President would have to put forward and vote on proposals to reduce the national debt before the debt limit could increase By eliminating the need to increase the debt limit if the debt is stable or declining as a percentage of GDP, and putting a process in place requiring the President and Congress to act to prevent the debt from growing faster than the economy, this legislation prevents the brinksmanship and last-minute deals to avoid default. ###
10.19.2015	Housing Secretary Acts on Rep. Peters’ Request to Open Comment Period on Federal Homeless Funding Formula SAN DIEGO, CA – Today, U.S. Representative Scott Peters (D, CA-52) joined Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Julian Castro as Secretary Castro announced that HUD will open a comment period in spring 2016 on revising the current formula for how federal anti-homelessness funds are allocated. In 2014, despite having the 5th largest homeless population in the country, San Diego received the 23rd most funding. “Since coming to Congress in 2013 we’ve been fighting for San Diego to get its fair share of federal funding to help the homeless,” Peters said. “The announcement from Secretary Castro that HUD is opening the public comment period on this outdated funding formula gives us the chance to make our case. This is what we’ve been asking for and it’s a huge first step. We are very grateful to the Secretary for being responsive to our request and for his visit.” Secretary Castro was in San Diego at Congressman Peters’ request to see first-hand the region’s approach to fighting homelessness. Rep. Peters continued, “This news is a testament to years of hard work from numerous San Diego non-profit organizations, the San Diego Housing Commission, and local leaders who have made this issue a priority.” In 2012, HUD proposed new rules on homelessness funding and opened a public comment period which closed in November 2012. In 2013, HUD notified Congress that it intended to reopen the comment period as it worked to develop an updated formula for federal homelessness funds. Until today, HUD had not taken any actions to honor that 2013 commitment. Secretary Castro’s announcement was made at the end of a tour of Hotel Churchill, an affordable housing facility for homeless individuals in Downtown San Diego. At the announcement, Peters and Castro were joined by Speaker of the California Assembly Toni Atkins, San Diego City Councilmember Todd Gloria, and San Diego Mayor Kevin Faulconer. Background on Congressman Peters’ Work on Homelessness: March 2013: Sent a letter to then-HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan advocating for an update to the Continuum of Care funding formula November 2013: Sent letter with Representatives Vargas (CA-51) and Davis (CA-53) asking for a comment period to make revisions to the funding formula September 2014: Sent letter to HUD Secretary Castro advocating for a funding formula update January 2015: Met, and advocated for an update to the funding formula, with Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs Chris O’Connor when Secretary O’Connor was in San Diego for the annual WeAllCount February 2015: Call with officials from HUD and the Department of Veterans Affairs to discuss ending veterans homelessness and revising the outdated federal funding formula May 2015: Met with Secretary Castro on Capitol Hill to discuss the funding formula disparity and to advocate for an update, and the chance for San Diego input on the process June 2015: Had a call with Secretary Castro to continue advocating for an update to the funding formula ###
10.14.2015	Secretary Jewell, Rep. Scott Peters Tour Fire Damaged Areas in Southern California, Discusses Urgent Need to Fix Federal Fire Funding SAN DIEGO – U.S. Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell and U.S. Congressman Scott Peters today toured fire damaged areas in San Diego, received a briefing on current fire conditions and continued their calls to reform the way the federal government funds wildfire suppression efforts. The two also highlighted the growing threat of catastrophic wildfires in drought-stricken areas of the West. The visit comes on the heels of a letter sent to Congress by Jewell, U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, and White House Office of Management and Budget Director Shaun Donovan urging they act to change the funding system so federal agencies can continue to fight fires while adequately investing in forest and rangeland restoration, making lands more resilient and less vulnerable to catastrophic wildfire. “The rising costs of fighting wildfires in San Diego come at the expense of other programs that reduce the risk of catastrophic fires, increase the ability of our lands to recover from fire, and help protect communities and infrastructure,” said Jewell. “The President's budget and a bipartisan group in Congress – like Congressman Peters – recognize this and have a commonsense solution by which we would treat catastrophic wildfires like the natural disasters they are. Congress can stop this perpetual downward spiral that each year increases fire risk and jeopardizes critical resources that support prevention and recovery efforts in California and across the country.” In Southern California, more than 3,600 fires have burned 282,000 acres as of Oct. 1, 2015. Last year, at least 3,200 wildfires in the area burned approximately 50,000 acres during the same period. Nationally, an estimated 59,000 wildfires scorched more than nine million acres this year, continuing a trend of severe fire seasons that took the lives of wildland firefighters and destroyed homes, structures and natural resources. That's above the national, 10-year average of 6.2 million acres burned from roughly 59,500 fires. Since 2000, fire seasons have grown longer, and the frequency, size and severity of wildland fires has increased. Climate change has led to fire seasons that are now on average 78 days longer than in 1970. Twice as many acres are burned in the U.S. compared to three decades ago, and Forest Service scientists believe the acreage burned may double again by mid-century. While the Interior Department and the Forest Service are able to suppress or manage 98 percent of wildfires with allocated funds, catastrophic fires – which make up one to two percent of wildland fires – consume 30 percent or more of annual fire suppression dollars. President Obama has proposed changing how the nation pays for wildfire costs so federal agencies can balance wildfire suppression with a proactive fuels management and restoration program that makes lands more resilient and less vulnerable to catastrophic fires. This solution is similar to the bipartisan Wildfire Disaster Funding Act (H.R. 167 introduced by Congressmen Mike Simpson and Kurt Schrader and S. 235 introduced by Senators Ron Wyden and Mike Crapo), which is budget-neutral and has broad and diverse stakeholder support. Interior and Forest Service set their firefighting budget based on their average costs of fighting fires over the last 10 years. Due to longer fire seasons, increased fuel loads in public forests and rangelands, and the expense associated with protecting lives and homes along an expanding wildland-urban interface, the 10-year average continues to rise. The costs of wildfire preparedness and suppression now account for 76 percent of the DOI wildfire management program budget and, as in the case of the Forest Service, reduce the amounts of funds available for fuels management and restoration efforts. These activities are essential for reducing risks of catastrophic fires, increasing the resiliency of lands to recover from fire, and to protect communities and infrastructure. In recent years, Interior and the Forest Service have relied on funding transfers from non-suppression programs to fund extraordinary fire costs that exceed budgeted amounts. The Forest Service transferred funds in seven of the last 14 years, while in six of the last 14 years, Interior had to transfer funds. ### **This press release is courtesy of the Department of the Interior** - Originally seen HERE.
10.13.2015	SAN DIEGO – In the wake of four shootings on college campuses in the last month, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52), former Mayor and Police Chief of San Diego Jerry Sanders, and a large group of local mothers and others from the San Diego County chapter of the Brady Campaign called on Congress to take action and pass universal background checks. The group urged lawmakers to keep guns out of the hands of the mentally ill, domestic abusers, and criminals in part by making the background check system more robust, ending the gun show loophole, and having checks cover internet sales. “Children should not have to fear that a crazy person with a gun is going to walk into their school and shoot them. Parents shouldn’t fear that when they send their kids off to college, they’ll never come home again. It’s time for Congress to act,” Rep. Peters said. “Let’s start simple: close loopholes in our background check system to keep guns out of the hands of people who shouldn’t have them. There is a bipartisan bill sitting in the House of Representatives right now that would do this. I’m calling on party leaders to let Congress vote on background checks now.” The Brady Campaign is a national group dedicated to a safer America through reduced gun violence. “The United States averages 32,000 gun deaths every year. The American people have had enough. The Brady Background Check law which went into effect in 1993 requires all federally licensed gun dealers to perform a background check. This has prohibited 2.4 million illegal gun sales. Background checks work,” said Carol Landale, co-president of the San Diego County Chapter of the Brady Campaign. “But there are loopholes that must be closed. Eighteen states have expanded background checks beyond federally licensed dealers, but what we need now is a bill from Congress that will expand Brady background checks to all gun sales in all states.” Rep. Peters is a co-sponsor of the bipartisan King-Thompson background check legislation and a member of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force in the U.S. House of Representatives. During the rally, Rep. Peters, Sanders, and members of the San Diego chapter of the Brady Campaign signed a letter to Congressional leaders calling on them to take action to end the epidemic of gun violence across the country. “Because the current background check system only applies to about 60 percent of gun sales, 40 percent of those purchasing firearms are doing so in ‘no questions asked’ scenarios,” said Jerry Sanders, former San Diego Mayor and Police Chief. “The purchase of a gun, regardless of where that transaction is taking place, should have the same eligibility requirement for that purchase. This is a necessary and important step we can take to protect our communities.” “The safety of our communities extends beyond law enforcement; public safety is a shared responsibility,” San Diego Chief of Police Shelley Zimmerman said in support of the event. “It takes a collaborative effort between our community and the police working together. This legislation protects the second amendment while at the same time protects public safety. It is contradictory that background checks are required when a person purchases a firearm from a federally licensed seller, but not from an individual seller. By closing this loophole it will help prevent putting firearms in the hands of those who are not authorized by law to have a firearm while protecting the rights of our citizens who can legally bear arms.”
10.09.2015	Rep. Peters Continues Push to Make College More Affordable for Millions of American Families WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) introduced the Federal Student Loan Refinancing Act. The bill directs the Secretary of Education to automatically lower all federal student loans to 4 percent – which is near the current 30-year mortgage rate. Refinancing allows borrowers to replace existing debt with a new loan at a lower interest rate. This means that borrowers will reduce their monthly payments and free up income for purchases that will create a ripple effect on the economy. “Affordable higher education for lower and middle class families has been central to the American story, including my own,” Rep. Peters said. “I would not have been able to attend college without student loans and work-study programs. “To stay competitive in the global war for talent, we need to make it easier and more affordable for qualified students from every community to get a high-quality college education, not just students of means. Higher education is an investment in America’s economic future and in families across the country.” Peters continued, “Students and families across San Diego would save thousands of dollars under this legislation, giving them greater flexibility when they graduate, and the ability to make purchases that they are currently putting off, including a vehicle or a home.” Background on the Federal Student Loan Refinancing Act: A recent New York Times Article, noting Associated Press data analysis, showed that student loan debt is hurting multiple generations in the household, not just the recent graduates. According to the study, 35% of education debt belongs to individuals over 40 – 10 percentage points higher than a decade ago. In California, according to the Institute for College Access and Success, students owe an average of $20,340 in student loans. Furthermore, 12.4% of all California borrowers have defaulted on their Federal loans. Currently, nearly 4 million borrowers in California have outstanding Federal loans. By allowing the average borrower to refinance at 4% they would be saving $9,668.15 over the 20 year life of the loan. As the Wall Street Journal and New York Times have noted, 40 million people are borrowers of education loans totaling $1.2 trillion, with the current national average debt at $28,400. Younger generations are making social decisions that hurt the economy because of their debt, namely delaying marriage and childbirth. Additionally, they postpone major purchases like buying a car, or opting to live with their parents instead of purchasing a home. This trend has shown to be a huge drag on the entire state economy. By allowing the average national borrower to refinance their loans at 4%, they would be saving $8,483 over the 20 year life of the loan. ###
10.06.2015	Rep. Peters Helps Pass Bill to Get Single Parents the Child Support They’re Due WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) supported passage of legislation to help protect single parents by reducing opportunities for credit fraud in the child support system. The bill, H.R. 2091, if signed into law, would end the 10 days’ notice that child support enforcement agencies currently have to provide when accessing credit reports to determine child support payments. “Helping children thrive is the focus of today’s legislation. Single parents rely on child support to pay rent, for after-school care, and to put food on the table. We should not give bad actors the time and opportunity to sidestep the system,” Peters said. “Right now, an individual is informed that their credit will be checked in ten days, leaving them plenty of time to shift funds or purposefully lower their credit scores and avoid paying child support – that’s unacceptable.” ###
10.01.2015	Rep. Peters Helps Move National Security Budget Forward, Continues Advocacy for Strong and Smart Military WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52), continued his work advocating for a strong, dynamic military that utilizes San Diego’s experience and innovation. Peters voted to support the negotiated agreement between the House and Senate on the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that lays out the budget for the United States Military for the coming year. “America needs a military force that is strong, smart, and forward-looking, that provides our warfighters with the tools they need to be successful against dynamic new threats and gives military families the support they deserve and have earned. “Since coming to Congress I have consistently advocated against across-the-board, automatic cuts known as sequester that put our national security at risk and limit the options available to our military commanders. “Despite my opposition to certain provisions in this bill, providing for the national defense and our servicemembers cannot be a partisan battle. San Diego will benefit from this military budget, particularly in our innovative and cybersecurity technology sectors and with $52 million specifically for new projects supporting special warfare units in Coronado. And this bill supports many of the biofuel research and fuel supply diversity programs I have been advocating for and that military commanders want.” ###
10.01.2015	Rep. Scott Peters Calls on FAA to Provide Pt. Loma Residents with Answers WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) sent Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Administrator Michael Huerta a letter asking that the FAA step up communications with local residents and provide answers to the serious concerns raised by the Pt. Loma community over proposed flight path changes from the San Diego Airport. “In my time in Congress, no issue has galvanized the Pt. Loma community and its residents as much as these proposed changes to departure patterns from our airport. These residents deserve serious answers from the FAA,” Rep Peters said. “The community’s concern over the potential for increased air traffic over their neighborhoods is one that I echo and I have called on the FAA not to remove its waypoint at the south end of Pt. Loma.” The letter Congressman Peters sent to the FAA today can be read HERE. ###
09.30.2015	Rep. Peters Votes to Fund Government, Avert Shutdown WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after he voted to keep the federal government open through December 11, 2015: “Keeping the government open is the very least that the American people expect from Congress. But this consistent stop-and-start funding process that brings us within hours of shutting down the Federal Government is reckless and unnecessary, and harms our economy’s ability to grow. “While I supported today’s temporary funding bill, Congress has got to get serious in the next two months about confronting the fiscal challenges that our country is facing. “We need a budget that cuts wasteful spending, tackles our long-term debt, preserves a safety net for the most vulnerable, reforms the tax code to enhance our global competitiveness abroad and job creation at home, supports a strong and dynamic military, and makes the necessary investments in infrastructure, education, and basic scientific research that will support our country and our children into the future. “With Speaker Boehner last week announcing his resignation this is a real opportunity for my moderate friends in the Republican Party to work with moderate Democrats to get common-sense solutions on their way to President Obama’s desk. Our country cannot afford for Congress to waste this opportunity.” ###
09.30.2015	Rep. Peters Helps Pass Four Veterans’ Benefits Bills, Including $206m for San Diego WASHINGTON, DC – This week, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass four more pieces of legislation that will help veterans get jobs and provide them with the benefits and recognition they have earned by serving our country. One of the bills includes $206 million for construction of a spinal cord injury research and treatment building for the Department of Veterans Affairs in San Diego. “Bringing $206 million to San Diego for spinal cord research will combine the ground-breaking, innovative work that is already being done in our region with the ongoing needs that our warfighters have after their service. This will help San Diego continue pairing our scientific research leadership with veterans and their families who are suffering from debilitating injuries. “We also know that helping our veterans get and maintain employment after they leave the military must continue to be a priority, which is why I was proud to support legislation that gives many of them necessary medical leave and another bill to expedite the hiring of veterans in Customs and Border Patrol where our veterans already have the leadership and much of the training necessary to be successful in that new role.” The four pieces of legislation that passed the House are listed below: S. 2082 – Reauthorizes numerous programs at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) including support for homeless veterans, vocational benefits for servicemembers with debilitating injuries, and some funding for VA facility construction, including $206 million for a spinal cord injury research and treatment building in San Diego. The “Gold Star Fathers Act” would extend the preference eligible benefits open currently to mothers of permanently disable or deceased veterans to fathers. The “Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act” would alow federal employees who are veterans with service-connected disabilities to access leave for medical treatments for that disability The “Border Jobs for Veterans Act” would expedite hiring of veterans, or soon-to-be veterans, as Customs and Border Patrol officers. ###
09.25.2015	Rep. Peters Calls for Better Disclosure of Free Congressional Trips WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) introduced a House Resolution to increase transparency on travel taken by Members of Congress and their staff that is paid for by foreign governments or private organizations. The resolution fulfills another commitment to the ‘Fix Congress Now’ plan Peters announced earlier this year. “If a Member of Congress or their staff accepts a free trip, they should have a good reason for it, and they should let the public know who paid and why,” Peters said. “First-person, on-site experiences can provide valuable insight that helps make informed decisions. If you accept a trip for these reasons, you shouldn’t be afraid to make this information readily available to the public.” “This is a common-sense step to increase transparency. Speaker Boehner should bring it up for a vote and the House should pass it immediately. There is no reason not to act,” he added. The resolution Congressman Peters introduced today would require that Members of Congress put on their official websites travel that is taken by the Member or staff at the expense of an private organization or foreign government. That disclosure on Member websites would have to include the names of the individuals traveling, the dates of travel, sites visited, cost of the trip, the name of the organization, entity, or government funding the trip, and a link to the House Clerk’s site that currently hosts the corresponding documentation. Background on Rep. Peters’ ‘Fix Congress Now’ Plan In February, Congressman Peters introduced his plan to make government more efficient and accountable through common-sense reforms. It focused on six areas: Make Congress Work, Improve Our Elections, Remove Inefficiency and Government Waste, Ensure Ethical Standards, Increase Transparency and Openness, and Make Government Green. ###
09.25.2015	Rep. Scott Peters Fights Republican Move to Bar Social Cost of Carbon Analysis WASHINGTON, DC – Today, during debate of H.R. 348 the “RAPID Act,” U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) proposed an amendment that would allow federal agencies to use the social cost of carbon in their analyses. The social, or real, cost of carbon is the calculation of the economic, environmental, and social costs of carbon dioxide emissions. The RAPID Act, as passed, prohibits federal agencies from even considering the social cost of carbon or climate change due to greenhouse gas emissions. On a largely partisan 179-229 vote, Congressman Peters’ amendment was not adopted and he opposed final passage of the RAPID Act. “Instead of allowing federal agencies to plan for the future, House Republicans want to bar agencies from taking the full range of possibilities into account,” Peters said. “For too long we’ve heard that we have to choose between a prosperous economy and a clean environment; implying that we can’t have both. That is a false choice that I reject, and it is one that we can’t afford to make.” “My amendment today is simple – allow us to consider the real costs of carbon on our economy. While we are planning for our economic future we must also be considering how our economic growth will impact our public health and the sustainability of our communities,” Peters said. Congressman Peters offered the same amendment when the RAPID Act was considered in the House Judiciary Committee. He also penned an op-ed earlier this year in the Huffington Post entitled “Plan for the Future: Use the Social Cost of Carbon” that highlighted the scientific support for utilizing the social cost of carbon in economic and environmental analyses. Congressman Peters’ speech supporting his amendment in the House of Representatives can be seen HERE or by clicking the image below. Video of Scott Speaks on Social Cost of Carbon Amendment ###
09.24.2015	Rep. Scott Peters’ Statement on Pope Francis’ Address to Congress WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after hearing the address to Congress from His Holiness Pope Francis: “Pope Francis has dedicated his entire life to service and the betterment of people and communities around the world. He gave a profound reminder to us in Congress that we have been entrusted with enormous responsibility to serve those who need our help. And it was especially meaningful and encouraging to hear the Pope say ‘God Bless America.’” Congressman Peters was able to provide 38 San Diegans with tickets to view Pope Francis’ remarks from the West Front Lawn of the United States Capitol. ###
09.18.2015	Rep. Peters Opposes Republican Attack on Planned Parenthood WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after opposing H.R. 3134, the misguided effort to defund Planned Parenthood for a year: “Roads are crumbling, bridges are falling down, and the United States is again faced with a government shutdown; instead of tackling these critical problems, Republicans in Congress would rather waste our time resurrecting a battle that was settled by the Supreme Court forty years ago. “For more than 2.5 million women, children, and men – the majority of which fall below the poverty line – Planned Parenthood is a necessary primary healthcare provider. One in five American women has used Planned Parenthood for care in her lifetime. Their preventative care services reach far beyond family planning and contraception to 500,000 breast cancer screenings, 400,000 pap tests, and 4.5 million STI tests that are helping in the fight against HIV and AIDS. Federal funding, through grants and reimbursements, is providing an essential health lifeline in communities – including mine in San Diego – and in every state across this country.” Congressman Peters spoke about Planned Parenthood during last week’s hyper-partisan hearing in the House Judiciary Committee. Video of those comments can be seen HERE. ###
09.17.2015	Rep. Scott Peters’ Statement On Rep. Gibson’s Climate Resolution WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (D-CA-52) released the following statement after Representative Chris Gibson (R-NY-19) introduced a resolution which affirms that we must act to address climate change. The resolution is supported by 10 Republicans. “Acting to prepare communities for a changing climate, while we simultaneously work to stop the underlying causes, has long been bipartisan outside of Congress; Congressman Gibson’s resolution is a welcome sight to those of us who know we need broad support if we are to make substantive policy changes. “We must develop creative solutions to climate change so we can leave the planet for our children better than we received it. I look forward to working with any Member of Congress wanting to take action on climate change, and hope that more Republicans will join Congressman Gibson in this effort.” Congressman Peters is a member of the House Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition (SEEC), where he serves as Chair of the Climate Task Force. He is also an active member on the House Safe Climate Caucus. ###
09.15.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement marking the beginning of Hispanic Heritage Month, which is celebrated nationally from September 15th until October 15th: “It is an honor to represent a region with such a proud Hispanic presence where so many Latinos are in elected office and leading our businesses and communities,” Rep. Peters said. “As we celebrate Hispanic heritage and the achievements of the Hispanic community over the next month, it is important to remember that there is more to be done to fix our broken immigration system and improve opportunity by ensuring a high-quality, affordable education for every child.” Rep. Peters also recorded a video greeting to mark the beginning of Hispanic Heritage Month. Watch the video HERE, or click the image below. ###
09.11.2015	Rep. Scott Peters’ Statement on Iran Agreement Votes WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement about today’s votes on the internationally-negotiated Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) P5+1 agreement between the United States, Russia, China, our European Allies, and Iran: “Today, we somberly remember the lives lost, and those forever changed, on September 11, 2001. We owe it to these Americans, and to all those who then fought and died in the wars that ensued after, to defeat and stop the most deadly threat of our time, in the smartest, toughest way possible. “As horrific as the tragedies of 9/11 were, a nuclear-armed Iran could lead to devastation that could well dwarf the horrors of that day. This agreement is the best way to immediately prevent this from happening for at least 15 years. “Make no mistake, without this agreement, Iran will build a bomb and we may be forced to again send our sons and daughters to fight another devastating war in the Middle East. With this agreement, we maintain the option of a military strike, but it is not our first, or only option. “The United States of America possesses the most formidable military in the world. It is this might -- along with the strength of our partner nations -- that stands behind this agreement, which seeks peace first, and war last. “However, should Iran break this peace by reneging on its obligations, the President himself has said, that America will not hesitate to unleash the full force of our military might in retaliation. “Let us honor the events of 14 years ago by learning from our past mistakes, and by requiring one of the most dangerous regimes in the world to give up its shot at a nuclear weapon without risking American lives.” ###
09.09.2015	Rep. Scott Peters’ Statement Supporting Planned Parenthood WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement following the House Judiciary Committee’s partisan hearing on Planned Parenthood: “For more than 2.5 million women, children, and men – the majority of which fall below the poverty line – Planned Parenthood is a necessary primary healthcare provider. One in five American women has used Planned Parenthood for care in her lifetime. Their preventative care services reach far beyond family planning and contraception to 500,000 breast cancer screenings, 400,000 pap tests, and 4.5 million STI tests that are helping in the fight against HIV and AIDS. Federal funding, through grants and reimbursements, is providing an essential health lifeline in communities – including mine in San Diego – and in every state across this country. “Today’s hearing was a political sideshow meant to undercut women’s healthcare. The idea that we would shut down the government over funding for Planned Parenthood’s healthcare services – as some extreme Members of Congress have suggested – is reckless and irresponsible. It is ironic that any effort to defund Planned Parenthood and the contraceptive services they provide would result in reduced access to family planning, an increase in unwanted pregnancies, and more abortions in our country.” Video of Congressman Peters’ comments during today’s hearing can be seen HERE or by clicking the image below. Video of Scott Speaks at Judiciary Committee Hearing About Planned Parenthood Congressman Peters’ wife served on the board of Planned Parenthood of the Pacific Southwest, and both have been active supporters of the organization for two decades. ###
09.01.2015	Rep. Peters, Mayor Faulconer Launch First Ever Public Biotech Laboratory SAN DIEGO – Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) and San Diego Mayor Kevin Faulconer gathered local educational and scientific leaders to unveil a groundbreaking public biotech lab in the La Jolla-Riford Library. Believed to be the first such open facility in the world, the Basic safety Level 1 lab is the product of a partnership between the San Diego Wet Lab and the La Jolla-Riford Library that offers classes, workshops, and speakers series to educate students and the community on biology and biotechnology. “San Diego’s thriving science and research communities make it the perfect place for such a bold and unprecedented venture to succeed,” Rep. Scott Peters said. “The realization of this public-private partnership will expose students to careers in STEM fields and prepare them to be a part of our future workforce. I hope that this laboratory provides a model for others to follow in our region and around the country.” “Installing a functional molecular biology laboratory in a library is no ordinary feat,” said Mayor Kevin Faulconer. “This is a revolutionary concept and I’m proud to say San Diego is one of the first. Today, we are literally making innovation a public resource, which is fitting for a world-class city of innovation.” Libraries have always been about providing a public forum and a resource for learning. The partners in this venture believe that their success could be a model for adapting the role of libraries in our communities and meeting the demand for more scientists in the workforce. “The Library’s mission is to inspire lifelong learning through connections to knowledge and each other,” said Misty Jones, Director of the La Jolla-Riford Library. “We are naturally technology facilitators and guides to the future. We know that fun and educational workshops pique the interest in the sciences among young people.” “Our collective goal is to provide a cost-free, safe and stimulating experience to people of all ages who are interested in gaining lab experience and exploring the world of molecular biology,” said Laura Jordan-Smith, Public Outreach Director at the San Diego Wet Lab. “The facility here in the library is designed to offer a basic understanding of the tools, protocols, and science behind the rapidly developing biotech industry. We have developed library programming including a Science Lecture Series as well as hands-on workshops to facilitate direct connections with scientists.” The launch was held while Muirlands Middle School students took part in a lab workshop about DNA overseen by professionals from the San Diego Wet Lab. A number of representatives from local schools and organizations were in attendance to learn about the lab’s resources and try out its equipment. “The Salk Education Outreach is looking forward to our new partnership with the La Jolla Riford Library,” said Dona Mapston, Education Outreach Coordinator at the Salk Institute. “We are excited about providing educational opportunities to the community about the wonders of biomedical research.” ###
08.20.2015	Rep. Scott Peters Lauds Massive Renewable Energy Deal Between US Navy and San Diego’s Sempra Energy SAN DIEGO – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) was at Naval Base Coronado for the signing of the largest renewable energy purchase in history by an American federal entity. The deal between the U.S. Navy and Sempra Energy will bring solar energy from the new Mesquite 3 facility in Arizona to power portions of 14 Navy and Marine Corps installations across California, including every installation in San Diego County. There are seven military bases in the 52nd Congressional District. “The U.S. Department of Defense is the largest institutional consumer of energy in the world,” Peters said. “By investing in alternate sources and diversifying their energy supply portfolio, the DOD can lead the way in advancing renewable energy technologies. And that is what our military leaders want – both in the United States and on bases around the world. It provides the military with the tools necessary to complete missions safely and efficiently. This deal is a big leap forward.” At the signing, Congressman Peters introduced Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus, and was joined on stage by President and CEO of Sempra U.S. Patricia Wagner as well as Senior Vice President of the Western Area Power Administration Ronald Moulton. Last month, Congressman Peters reintroduced the “Department of Defense Energy Security Act (DODESA),” which would help the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) reduce energy use, boost combat effectiveness through fuel supply diversity, and speed up the development of advanced technologies to improve military energy efficiency. He recently wrote about the legislation in a post on Medium. The Congressman also successfully fought to include military energy efficiency and fuel supply diversity programs in this year’s National Defense Authorization Act. ###
08.11.2015	Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) and Congresswoman Susan Davis (CA-53) joined together to host a workshop for local nonprofit arts and culture organizations on how to maximize their potential for acquiring federally-funded grants. The event, held at the Old Globe Theater in Balboa Park, had an attendance of more than 200 people and featured representatives from the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH), the California Arts Council, the City of San Diego Commission for Arts and Culture, the San Diego Museum of Art, and the New Children’s Museum. “San Diego has long had a vibrant arts community driven by creative minds and a robust network of supportive non-profits and culture organizations,” Rep. Peters said. “Congresswoman Davis and I hope to provide as much information as possible about the grant process to make it easier for these groups to pursue the visions that they have for their work.” “While the federal grants process can often be confusing and competitive, especially for grants in the arts and humanities community, it shouldn’t stifle a great creative idea,” said Rep. Davis. "By bringing together experts in the grant writing process, I hope this workshop gave the creative minds in our region the tools they need to realize their vision and to bring more grant dollars to arts and humanities programs in our region.” The program included time for participants to ask questions of the panelists on subjects ranging from how to apply for a federal grant, which agencies and local entities can help with the requests, and the ability of Congressional offices to serve as a resource for nonprofit organizations in search of funding opportunities. Congressman Peters serves the 52nd District of California which covers much of central San Diego County including Poway, Coronado, and large portions of the City of San Diego. Congresswoman Susan Davis serves the 53rd District of California which covers parts of Chula Vista, La Mesa, Spring Valley, parts of El Cajon, and the central portions of the City of San Diego. ###
08.06.2015	Rep. Peters Celebrates Voting Rights Act Anniversary, Calls for Bipartisan Action SAN DIEGO – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement on the occasion of the 50th Anniversary of the Voting Rights Act, which was signed into law by President Lyndon Baines Johnson in 1965: “When I was growing up, my Dad, a now-retired Lutheran minister, fought to desegregate housing in the suburbs of Detroit and taught me that everyone has value, we all deserve equal treatment, and that our country is best served by ensuring a voice for all – including through the ballot box. On the 50th anniversary of the Voting Rights Act, we must celebrate how far we have come in making it easier for Americans to vote and stop efforts that curb the ability of our fellow citizens to cast their ballot. We should all be able to agree that our society is better off when we make it easier to fulfill the fundamental civic responsibility of voting.” In the 113th Congress, Representative Peters was an early cosponsor of H.R. 3899, the “Voting Rights Amendment Act,” bipartisan legislation to strengthen the Voting Rights Act. In the 114th Congress, Peters has continued that advocacy as an original cosponsor to H.R. 12, Congressman John Lewis’ (GA-5) “Voter Empowerment Act.” ###
08.03.2015	Rep. Scott Peters Welcomes Strong EPA Clean Power Plan WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement in support of the Clean Power Plan released by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA): “The United States must lead the world in fighting for a cleaner energy future. Reducing emissions from power plants – by far the largest emitters of harmful pollutants in our country – is a significant action. I want to thank President Obama and EPA Secretary Gina McCarthy for their steadfast leadership both on this plan and a host of other changes to help fight the root causes of climate change. “California is already leading the way in aggressive targets for climate action and reduced emissions, which is leading to improved air quality and human health benefits across our state. The EPA’s rule today not only rewards states for being ahead of the curve, but provides flexible pathways for other states to move toward a more sustainable energy portfolio. By working with states, localities, and energy utility companies, the EPA is encouraging investments in innovation through higher national standards and a long-term vision for sustainable energy production that doesn’t raise utility rates for consumers. “Continued work to reduce emissions in other sectors is essential as we work to fight climate change and mitigate potential damage – including drought, wildfires, extreme weather, and sea level rise – but today’s rule is a positive step forward in our international leadership, particularly as we look toward the global climate talks in Paris later this year.” This final rule follow’s the June 2013 proposed rule and a 120-day public comment period in which the EPA received more than 4 million comments – an agency record. The full rule can be read HERE. Congressman Peters serves the 52nd District of California which covers much of central San Diego County including Poway, Coronado, and large portions of the City of San Diego. He serves as the Chair of the Climate Task Force for the House Sustainable Energy and Environment Coalition (SEEC) and is an active member of the House Safe Climate Caucus. He is also a member of the House Armed Services Committee and House Judiciary Committee. The Congressman is a former environmental attorney, City Council President, and Port Commission Chairman. ###
07.29.2015	Representatives Blumenauer, DelBene, Peters Lead Call for High Standard, Enforceable Environmental Provisions in TPP Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Scott Peters (CA-52), and other Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives who recently voted to grant President Obama Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), called on U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Michael Froman to secure a strong and fully enforceable Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) environment chapter. In a letter to Ambassador Froman, the lawmakers highlight that the TPP is an opportunity to raise environmental standards across 40 percent of the global economy. They note that strong environmental provisions are critical to not only protecting some of the most resource-rich areas on the planet, but also U.S. small- and medium-sized businesses consistently undermined by the environmental practices in both TPP countries and those who may join. The letter also makes clear that we cannot fight criminal networks and terrorist organizations without undercutting a key source of their funding that’s generated through the illegal trade in wildlife, forest and living marine resources. Therefore, the lawmakers urge Ambassador Froman to pursue strong obligations from TPP countries on this front. “I am optimistic that TPP will contain major advances in international logging practices, sustainable fisheries management, and anti-whaling and shark finning efforts,” said Representative Peters. “We must also ensure that any agreement allows the United States to continue its leadership in combatting the root causes of climate change. Fighting climate change by pushing for low-emissions economies is both an environmental opportunity and an economic one for workers and businesses across America and around the world.” “The TPP presents an opportunity to strengthen environmental protections to a degree that no amount of foreign aid could ever bring,” said Representative Blumenauer. “Environmental miscreants are not going to unilaterally disarm. A negotiated approach, using the economic incentives in a trade agreement, is the best way to turn bad actors into violators of enforceable commitments aimed at protecting our natural resources and stopping egregious practices like whaling, shark finning, illegal logging, and wildlife trafficking. That’s why it’s critical we get the TPP environment chapter right.” “We need a progressive trade deal that reflects American values. The environmental chapter must help address key priorities such as illegal trade in wildlife, forest resources and overfishing,” Representative DelBene said. “Strong, enforceable environmental protections will not only help protect our planet for future generations, it will also level the playing field for small-and-medium-sized U.S. businesses by raising environmental standards. I look forward to continuing to work with Ambassador Froman on these efforts.” Click here to read the letter. ###
07.29.2015	Reps. Scott Peters, Matt Salmon Intro Carbon Capture Utilization Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Scott Peters (CA-52) and Matt Salmon (AZ-05), bipartisan co-chairs of the Congressional Algae Caucus, introduced the “Carbon Capture Research and Development Act.” The bill would help speed the development and deployment of new technologies that can convert captured CO2 to fuels, chemicals, and other products by adding “conversion, use, and storage of carbon dioxide” to the Fossil Energy Office’s list of research areas. “More research across the Department of Energy on innovative carbon capture technologies will allow the United States to continue its leadership in this field,” said Congressman Peters. “It will also signal to private sector companies and investors that carbon capture utilization is worth investing in and promoting. We can reduce emissions and create private sector, free-market jobs in tandem through this process.” “Americans can easily find ways to utilize the byproducts of our modern society if given the opportunity,” Congressman Salmon said. “The Carbon Capture Research and Development Act is a step in that direction, instructing the Department of Energy to explore new ways to allow industry to utilize carbon dioxide while creating a stronger and more prosperous economy for our nation.” Carbon capture technology, including algae, turns carbon emissions into products that can be used for food, fuel, and consumer products. “I am very thankful for the leadership of Representatives Salmon and Peters in helping to establish an algae biotechnology industry, and in promoting smart science and jobs creation,” said Dr. Stephen Mayfield, Director of the California Center for Algae Biotechnology and Director of Food and Fuel for the 21st Century, both at the University of California San Diego. “I look forward to working with them to keep the industry growing.” ###
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has filed the Honest Dynamic Scoring Resolution, legislation that would make sure that the economic benefits of smart public investments in areas such as infrastructure, research and development and education are accurately reflected in budget projections. The bipartisan legislation was introduced with lead Republican Congressman Richard Hanna (NY-22) and Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52). Under current House rules, macroeconomic or “dynamic” scoring – scoring that takes into account the secondary benefits of legislation – is effectively limited to tax bills. The bill would ensure that all major bills are scored using the same methodology and that the economic benefits of investing in roads, bridges and transit, of educating the next generation and of supporting new technological and scientific innovation are accounted for. “We need to provide lawmakers with an accurate picture of how scientific research, infrastructure, clean energy technology, and education will benefit our economic growth beyond a simple income statement calculation,” said Congressman Peters. “Our current budgeting system gives no incentive to make investments today that will create millions of jobs, save billions of dollars, and keep the United States ahead of our competitors.” “Building new ports and runways, training new high-skill workers, investing in new technologies – these choices grow our economy, create jobs and reduce the deficit and this fact should be reflected in our congressional projections. The House budgeting process is broken: we have one set of facts for tax bills and another set of facts for public investments. We’ve tilted the scales to favor one specific agenda,” said Congressman Delaney. “As a pro-growth progressive, I favor dynamic scoring because I believe we must increase our nation’s investment in infrastructure, research and education. In the interest of accurate budgeting, we need to score and analyze all bills the same way; this is more intellectually honest and necessary for better policy decisions.” “Traditional budget score keeping fails to capture the benefits of pro-growth policies like infrastructure investments and tax cuts, but we know that maintaining and upgrading our infrastructure creates jobs, grows our GDP, and lowers transportation costs for businesses and individuals alike,” Congressman Hanna said. “In the same way that we consider the macroeconomic effects to determine the economic impacts of tax cuts, we should use the same methods to fully capture the benefits to the economy of investing in our infrastructure.” The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) and the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) provide Congress with a nonpartisan financial projection – or “score” – of the expected effect proposed pieces of legislation would have on the federal budget. A bill’s score is typically instrumental in the success or failure of legislation. The Honest Dynamic Scoring Resolution amends House rules, lowering the threshold for bills to be dynamically scored to 1% of the previous year’s discretionary spending and any spending in an appropriations bill for which the authorization was dynamically scored. As outlined in CBO’s 2015 Long-Term Budget Outlook, published in June, “increases in federal investment promote long-term economic growth by raising productivity. Spending on education helps develop a skilled workforce, spending on R&D encourages innovation, and spending on infrastructure such as roads and airports facilitates commerce. […] The result of that greater productivity is higher private-sector output.” (page 79) According to a white paper released by McGraw Hill Financial earlier this month infrastructure investment should be dynamically scored because it leads to economic growth and that a “$100 billion dollar infrastructure investment would generate a 20-year revenue offset ranging from $12.5 to $33.1 billion.” ###
07.27.2015	Rep. Scott Peters Leads Bipartisan Fight for American Innovators WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) led a letter, with support from a bipartisan group of 78 other colleagues, to House leadership asking for changes to the Inter Partes Review (IPR) portion of H.R. 9, the so-called “Innovation Act,” before the bill comes to the floor for a vote. Peters has been out front and persistent in the fight to make substantial changes to the currently-flawed legislation before it is considered by the whole House of Representatives. “What is clear is that the so-called ‘Innovation Act’ is the wrong approach and will undermine the entire patent system,” said Rep. Scott Peters (CA-52). “The bill is overly broad, resulting in a system where any actions taken against a patent troll could also be taken against a real inventor with a legitimate patent.” Peters continued, “Instead of throwing the baby out with the bathwater, we should craft patent reform legislation that actually fixes the problem of abusive litigation and out of control patent trolls, gives inventors a clear and reasonable route of recourse when they are wronged, and brings our patent system into the 21st century. “We must be working to find the right balance between immediate access to lower-cost medicines and incentivizing innovative research and development here in the United States. The ‘Innovation Act’ would undermine that balance and threaten our country’s competitive advantage,” Peters concluded. Signatories of the bipartisan letter include the following Members: Rep. Scott Peters (CA-52), Rep. Ryan Costello (PA-06), Rep. Alma Adams (NC-12), Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31), Rep. Lou Barletta (PA-11), Rep. Karen Bass (CA-37), Rep. Dan Benishek (MI-01), Rep. Ami Bera (CA-07), Rep. Rod Blum (IA-01), Rep. Brendan Boyle (PA-13), Rep. Susan Brooks (IN-05), Rep. Julia Brownley (CA-26), Rep. Vern Buchanan (FL-16), Rep. Larry Bucshon (IN-08), Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-42), Rep. Michael Capuano (MA-07), Rep. John Carney (DE-AL), Rep. Andre Carson (IN-07), Rep. Buddy Carter (GA-01), Rep. Katherine Clark (MA-05), Rep. Chris Collins (NY-27), Rep. Gerry Connolly (VA-11), Rep. Joe Courtney (CT-02), Rep. Susan Davis (CA-53), Rep. John Delaney (MD-06), Rep. Charlie Dent (PA-15), Rep. Robert Dold (IL-10), Rep. Sean Duffy (WI-07), Rep. Tom Emmer (MN-06), Rep. Elizabeth Esty (CT-05), Rep. Stephen Fincher (TN-08), Rep. Mike Fitzpatrick (PA-08), Rep. Chuck Fleischmann (TN-03), Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Rep. Gwen Graham (FL-02), Rep. Andy Harris (MD-01), Rep. Alcee Hastings (FL-20), Rep. Denny Heck (WA-10), Rep. Jim Himes (CT-04), Rep. Mike Honda (CA-17), Rep. Richard Hudson (NC-08), Rep. William Keating (MA-09), Rep. Robin Kelly (IL-02), Rep. Ann Kuster (NH-02), Rep. Doug LaMalfa (CA-01), Rep. Leonard Lance (NJ-07), Rep. Ted Lieu (CA-33), Rep. Dave Loebsack (IA-02), Rep. Stephen Lynch (MA-08), Rep. Tom Macarthur (NJ-03), Rep. Mark Meadows (NC-11), Rep. Greg Meeks (FL-05), Rep. Seth Moulton (MA-06), Rep. Kristi Noem (SD-AL), Rep. Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Rep. Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Rep. Donald Payne (NJ-10), Rep. Joe Pitts (PA-16), Rep. Mike Quigley (IL-05), Rep. David Roe (TN-01), Rep. Raul Ruiz (CA-36), Rep. Linda Sanchez (CA-38), Rep. Kurt Schrader (OR-05), Rep. Krysten Sinema (AZ-09), Rep. Albiro Sires (NJ-08), Rep. Chris Smith (NJ-04), Rep. Jackie Speier (CA-14), Rep. Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Rep. Mark Takai (HI-01), Rep. Glenn Thompson (PA-05), Rep. Norma Torres (CA-35), Rep. David Valadao (CA-21), Rep. Juan Vargas (CA-51), Rep. Marc Veasey (TX-33), Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Rep. Frederica Wilson (FL-24), Rep. David Young (IA-03), Rep. Todd Young (IN-09), Rep. Ryan Zinke (MT-AL) The text of the letter can be seen HERE or below: [BEGIN TEXT] Dear Speaker Boehner, Majority Leader McCarthy, Minority Leader Pelosi, and Minority Whip Hoyer: The House Judiciary Committee recently approved H.R. 9, the Innovation Act, and we understand that the bill’s sponsors would like to have the legislation considered on the House floor in the coming weeks. We support the original objective of the legislation, and we commend Chairman Goodlatte for attempting to combat so-called patent trolls in our system. At the same time, however, any patent litigation legislation must represent the views of the full spectrum of different industries and sectors reliant on a well-functioning U.S. patent system. Accordingly, before H.R. 9 is brought to the floor, we believe that, in addition to the current changes to the inter partes review (IPR) system contained in the bill and several other changes that have been requested by the life sciences community, language should also be included to preserve the integrity of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act (commonly known as Hatch-Waxman), and the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act (BPCIA). Congress established Hatch-Waxman and BPCIA to strike a balance between access to lower cost versions of medicines and preserving incentives for continued innovation. This unique patent litigation system has been working for decades. However, the patent challenge system created under the America Invents Act, specifically the IPR system, threatens to undermine these specialized patent resolution frameworks in a way that was not intended when Congress created it. Patents are critically important for developing FDA-approved biopharmaceutical products. Unlike companies in other sectors, biopharmaceutical companies are not able to immediately capitalize on the value of their patents. Instead, they must spend almost a decade and, on average, $2.6 billion, before they can receive approval from the FDA to bring new medicines to market. In recognition of these unique circumstances, Congress established separate patent dispute resolution frameworks for approved drugs and biologics. Hatch-Waxman and BPCIA are designed, among other things, to create an incentive for generic and biosimilar competition, while balancing the need to preserve incentives for innovation. Hatch-Waxman has had a profound impact on the prescription drug market since its inception 30 years ago. Today, 88 percent of prescriptions filled in the U.S. are for generics – up from just 19 percent before the law’s enactment – and the use of generics generated nearly $1.5 trillion in savings to the U.S. health care system from 2004-2013. At the same time, investment in research and development (R&D) is at an all-time high and there were a record number of new medicines approved by the FDA in 2014, allowing patients to live longer healthier lives. The IPR process, as implemented by the Patent and Trademark Office (PTO), must not be allowed to upset this delicate balance. Fortunately, Congress has a chance to address this concern, by including language in H.R. 9 to make clear that the IPR process does not apply to biopharmaceutical patents that are subject to challenge under Hatch-Waxman and BPCIA. Doing so would build on language in the underlying bill, which already exempts Hatch-Waxman and BPCIA challenges from changes the bill makes to certain patent litigation proceedings. Including this language would protect the delicate balance Congress struck in Hatch-Waxman and BPCIA while in no way harming the intent behind the IPR process. We should address this issue, which is crucial to maintaining the substantial R&D investments needed to develop new treatments and cures for U.S. patients, before the bill comes to the House floor. We look forward to working with you and with Chairman Goodlatte to address this issue before H.R. 9 is considered. [END TEXT] ###
07.20.2015	Rep. Scott Peters Reintroduces Bill to Strengthen Combat Effectiveness, Save Lives Via Fuel Supply Diversity WASHINGTON, D.C. – Recently, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) reintroduced H.R. 3108, the Department of Defense Energy Security Act (DODESA), legislation to help the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) reduce energy use, boost combat effectiveness through fuel supply diversity, and speed up the development of advanced technologies to improve military energy efficiency. “Our country needs a strong, smart, and durable military that is prepared to face new 21st-century threats,” Congressman Scott Peters said. “Our military deserves congressional support for its desire to invest in a multifaceted energy portfolio; it will save money and save lives. By passing DODESA, we can diversify the DOD’s energy portfolio and promote energy efficiency, which will enhance our national security and protect our warfighters from the needless harm that comes from transporting convoys of fuel across remote battlefields.” “In his proposed DoD Energy Security Act, Representative Scott Peters takes aim squarely at the real challenge, which is how DoD can use good energy policy to build a better military,” said Sharon Burke, Senior Advisor at New America and former Assistant Secretary of Defense for Operational Energy. “His sensible proposals, everything from new contracting tools to improved vehicle performance to more resilient bases at home, will make warfighters more effective, limit the risks from energy threats, and if DoD does it right, save the taxpayers money. This is responsible legislation that is also responsive to the needs of our men and women in uniform.” “If our military is going to effectively face 21st century global challenges, we have to get it free of the burden of 19th century energy sources. Reducing reliance on fossil fuels and increasing efficiency in how our military uses energy will make our warfighters and installations more effective and our nation more secure,” said Senator Mazie K. Hirono, Member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee and Senate Armed Services Committee. “Hawaii military installations are leading the way in innovative energy security efforts and as we continue the rebalance to the Asia-Pacific we must ensure our military has the tools to increase energy self-sufficiency and efficiency. The Department of Defense Energy Security Act, which I introduced in the Senate earlier this year and was recently introduced in the House, reduces the military’s reliance on fossil fuels by supporting efforts to improve efficiency, support better energy management and usage, research, and deployment of cleaner energy technologies, and better governance of the military’s energy programs.” “I am pleased that Representative Peters is leading the effort in the House to improve energy efficiency in the military,” said Senator Ron Wyden, Member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. “This legislation, which parallels the bill that Sen. Hirono and I introduced last month in the Senate, builds on important, common-sense initiatives in the military to reduce energy use and costs, and in turn enhance national security.” Senators Hirono and Wyden recently introduced a similar bill, S. 1528, in the United States Senate. Background on DODESA Congressman Peters joined with then-Senator Mark Udall (D-CO) to introduce DODESA last year, building on the work led by former Arizona Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords when a similar version was introduced in 2010. DODESA 2015 would do the following: Leverage private-sector capital funding to increase the efficiency of mobile assets such as ships and deployable equipment, while allowing the Pentagon to reap long-term savings. Streamline efforts across the service branches and reduce redundancy by establishing a central database for energy projects. Continue research and funding for more fuel efficient tactical vehicles. Help military installations continue to function in the event of a major power outage following a natural disaster or an attack on the electrical grid. Authorize investments in infrastructure on military installations for alternative fuel vehicles. Enable base commanders and energy managers to reinvest savings realized from smart energy programs back into bases. Direct the DOD to provide Congress with information on military readiness at installations to hear DOD’s strategy to mitigate the impact of expected increased water shortages, instances of wildfire, increased drought, flooding due to sea level rise, and coastal erosion from storm surges to ensure optimal military readiness. A one-page summary of DODESA 2015 can be seen HERE. ###
07.17.2015	Rep. Scott Peters Celebrates San Diego Pride, LGBT Equality Victories SAN DIEGO – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement on the LGBT Pride Festival celebration this weekend in San Diego: “During Pride we join together to celebrate the wonderful diversity of the LGBT community and our victories in the fight for full equality. While there is work to be done, particularly around expanding non-discrimination protections that we enjoy in California to the rest of the country and in supporting the transgender community, we should take time to reflect on the hard-fought victories of recent months and years. I’m looking forward, as I do every year, to seeing advocates and allies from across San Diego at Pride this weekend.” Rep. Peters also recorded a video greeting by stopping by both The LGBT Center in San Diego and the United States Supreme Court, where just last month the Court ruled in favor of nationwide marriage equality. Watch the video HERE or click the image below. Video of Scott&amp;#039;s Message for San Diego Pride 2015 ###
07.17.2015	Rep. Peters Intros Bill to Help Hard-Working, Struggling Americans Reduce Personal Debt Burden WASHINGTON, D.C. – Recently, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) introduced H.R. 2640, the ‘Consumer Debt Forgiveness Tax Relief Act of 2015.’ “Millions of Americans are struggling to reduce their debt burden, and in doing so are delaying major purchases, including buying a car or a home, that would help spur our economy both in San Diego and across the country,” Rep. Peters said. “This bill will make it easier for those who are working hard to pay off personal loans – students with college loan burdens, families with a health emergency, and more – to avoid being unfairly taxed for trying to do the right thing.” The legislation would exempt up to $2,500 of forgiven personal and household debt from federal income tax liabilities. Currently, when consumer debt is discharged and forgiven the consumer is taxed on the ‘income’ derived from the reduced liability. This bill will incentivize consumers to repay the debt quickly and bolster both their personal credit scores and the national credit market. Jerry Sanders, San Diego Chamber of Commerce President and CEO, added in support of the legislation that “When creditors and collectors discount charged-off consumer debt, this helps consumers repay their debt obligation and that, in turn, helps the credit market. This legislation will allow credit to be more accessible and at more affordable rates.” Sheryl Wright, Encore Capital Group’s Senior Vice President of Corporate & Government Affairs, said “We offer the majority of our consumers deep discounts on their debt and hope that in tandem with the ‘Consumer Debt Forgiveness Tax Relief Act,’ they will be fully empowered to repay their debt obligations. The current system creates a ‘one step forward, two steps back’ approach for consumers in that it hinders their ability to repay their debt and slows their progress toward a better financial footing. We thank Congressman Peters for championing this effort that is good for both consumers and the credit market alike.” Congressman Peters serves the 52nd District of California which covers much of central San Diego County including Poway, Coronado, and large portions of the City of San Diego. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and House Judiciary Committee. The Congressman is a former environmental attorney, City Council President, and Port Commission Chairman. ###
07.16.2015	Rep. Peters Calls on Congress to Protect Water Used to Fight Wildfires WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives in opposition to the misguided attempt to undercut decades of existing California water policies and put communities across the state, including San Diego, at increased risk for wildfires. “This bill does not make it rain – no one can do that. It simply undermines the State of California’s water policies to move water away from one set of communities and into different ones,” Rep. Peters said. “Two of the deadliest wildfires in California history, the Witch and Cedar fires, occurred in San Diego and killed 17 people; this is also a matter of life and death,” Congressman Peters continued. “The images of depleted reservoirs, lakes, and streams drying up abound, and millions of dead trees litter our forests. As the New York Times reported just yesterday, ‘For those who know fire, fuel is all they see.’” In an attempt to improve the bill, Rep. Peters proposed an amendment to ensure that any changes to water policy leave enough water in reservoirs, lakes, and community supplies to fight wildfires when they occur. Watch Congressman Peters’ speech either by clicking HERE or on the image below. Video of Scott Fights to Protect Water Used to Fight Wildfires ###
07.15.2015	Rep. Peters Derides Short-Sighted Short-Term Infrastructure Patch WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after voting against legislation that would spend $8.1 billion to extend the Highway Trust Fund for just a few short months through December 18, 2015: “When we passed the last short-term patch – just two months ago – we were told that the time would be used to develop a robust, long-term, and sustainable plan for funding the investments necessary to move us beyond simply maintaining the crumbling, mediocre system we currently have. Instead of taking this task on, Congress is letting the American people down by punting this along with no real plan for action. Congress’s failure to act is hindering economic and job growth, and harming states and localities who are counting on the consistency of a multi-year infrastructure strategy. “Instead of wasting time on this gimmick we should be using an approach known as queen of the hill where a number of viable ideas are brought forward and whichever garners the most support passes – a bipartisan strategy that several of my colleagues and I advocated for earlier this week.” ###
07.14.2015	Rep. Peters’ Bill to Cut Barriers to Housing Assistance Passes U.S. House WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, H.R. 1047, the “Housing Assistance Efficiency Act,” introduced by Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) passed the United States House of Representatives. An identical version passed the House in December 2014 but was not acted upon by the Senate. “San Diego is home to many service providers who know best how to serve those in need, but current law mires them in unnecessary bureaucracy. This bill removes a non-essential layer of red tape that will save money and allow people to get housing assistance more quickly,” Rep. Peters said. “We should be focused on making the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) more efficient so that it can better provide service to residents; instead the current system burdens HUD with more administrative work that doesn’t help anyone.” Watch Congressman Peters’ speech today by clicking HERE or on the image below. Video of Scott Urges Passage of Bill to Cut Red Tape for Housing Assistance Background on the “Housing Assistance Efficiency Act” Mandate the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) conduct reallocation of funds once a year instead of twice a year Twice a fiscal year, HUD has to reallocate Emergency Solutions Grants program funds that are unused, returned, or otherwise become available for the program. But there are almost never any unused or returned funds in this program. That unnecessary second reporting requires significant staff resources to complete. It is administratively more efficient to reallocate funds only once a year. This frees up HUD employees to provide more human resources towards providing better service to constituents. Permanently include private nonprofits in the category of entities allowed to administer federal rental assistance Prior to 2009, private non-profits could directly administer rental assistance through HUD’s Continuum of Care program, but a change in 2009 obfuscated rental assistance laws, and private nonprofits were left off the list of entities allowed to administer rental assistance. That change pushed a huge administrative burden onto an already stretched HUD budget. Right now, thanks to a temporary fix from the last omnibus appropriations bill, non-profits are able to administer rental assistance but that expires next week. This legislation will permanently allow non-profits to administer the assistance, giving certainty to the system and those who rely on it.
07.10.2015	Rep. Peters Joins Colleagues in Pragmatic Drought Response Effort WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) joined Congressman Jared Huffman from Northern California and 30 other members of the U.S. House of Representatives to introduce the “Drought Relief and Resilience Act.” The bill holds both short-term solutions for drought relief and long-term, forward-looking proposals to improve water infrastructure and recycling programs. “As the drought drags on we need aggressive action to help harmed communities, and we have to be planning for our region’s long-term water future through increased water infrastructure,” Rep. Peters said. “San Diego is already leading the way in water recycling and desalination, and we can provide an example for diversifying water supplies to the rest of the West.” The legislation includes almost $1.2 billion in emergency funds for reclamation projects, increased water infrastructure support, water reuse and recycling efforts, assistance for farm communities, and contaminated groundwater cleanup. A full section-by-section breakdown of the “Drought Relief and Resilience Act” can be seen on Congressman Huffman’s website HERE. ###
07.10.2015	Rep. Scott Peters Helps Pass Bipartisan Bill to Increase NIH Funding WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass legislation to increase funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) by $8.75 billion over the next five years, develop precision medicine treatments that San Diego is already leading the way on, improve Food and Drug Administration (FDA) ability to keep pace with innovation, cut barriers to innovation, and improve health information technology. H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act, passed on a bipartisan 344-77 vote. “This bipartisan effort will help keep our country’s scientific research competitive and will lead to research and innovation that will save lives. San Diego institutions and labs received nearly $400 million in NIH funds last year, and rely on consistent investments to complete their groundbreaking research. I’m hopeful that today’s bipartisan bill will bring us closer to increasing the annual NIH budget so that we can stay atop the world in terms of research, development, and discovery.” ###
06.30.2015	Reps. Peters, Hunter, Sinema Introduce Bill to Use UAVs to Fight Wildfires, Save Lives WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52), Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09) and Congressman Duncan Hunter (CA-50) joined forces to introduce H.R. 2909, the “Protecting Firefighters and Promoting Innovation Act.” This bipartisan legislation will leverage innovative technologies for California firefighters, reducing risks for first responders and improving the effectiveness of wildfire fighting strategies. “San Diego is at the forefront of developing innovative unmanned aerial systems that we can integrate into our wildfire fighting services, but we have to ensure that they are utilized safely and effectively,” said Congressman Peters. “These technologies have the opportunity to provide more information for our first-responders, especially in hard-to-reach areas, which will help decrease the safety risk to firefighters in the field.” The “Protecting Firefighters and Promoting Innovation Act” establishes an interagency working group to develop best practices for integrating Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) technologies into firefighting efforts. While no substitute for adequate funding and training, UAS can complement existing firefighting capabilities by improving coordination through real-time updates, delivering countermeasures in remote and inaccessible areas, and reducing the exposure and risk to first responders. “Arizonans are too familiar with the devastating effects wildfires have on our communities,” said Congresswoman Sinema. “Two years ago, the Yarnell Hill Fire claimed the lives of 19 Arizona hotshots. These heroes put everything on the line to protect our neighbors and families, and it’s our responsibility to do everything we can to prevent future tragedies.” “Firefighting is a dangerous job that is critical to the protection of life and property, and incorporating UAS into the firefighting process will improve firefighter safety and decrease the potential for injuries and casualties,” said Brian Wynne, President and CEO of the Association of Unmanned Vehicle Systems International. “Many first responders are realizing the potential of UAS technologies – including applications that may support battling the more than 60,000 wildland fires in the U.S. each year. This legislation is a critical step toward allowing UAS to be used as an essential tool in these all too common occurrences.” The working group established by the bill will be led by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the Department of the Interior (DOI) and include representatives from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and the National Guard. The group will also consult outside stakeholders and experts to ensure that any proposal is fiscally responsible, leverages existing federal resources where applicable, protects civil liberties, and includes state and local agencies in the process. ###
06.26.2015	Rep. Peters’ Statement on Marriage Equality Ruling WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after the Supreme Court ruled in favor of nationwide marriage equality in the Obergefell v. Hodges case: “Today is a great day for our country. Finally, in every state in America, ALL loving couples will be able to marry. On this historic day the Supreme Court has declared with finality that love is love. As a long-time supporter of marriage equality, I am ecstatic that LGBT Americans, including my friends, colleagues, and staff, will be able to share in the bond of marriage.” ###
06.25.2015	Rep. Peters’ Statement on King v. Burwell Ruling WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after the Supreme Court’s 6-3 ruling in favor of federal health insurance exchange subsidies in the King v. Burwell case: “Making health care more affordable and accessible for women and working families leads to a healthier nation, and allows more people to access preventative care which will lead to lower costs in the long-term. As we’ve seen with the medical device tax, there are still places to make adjustments, but today’s ruling will allow millions of men, women, seniors, and children to continue to receive quality health care.” ###
06.19.2015	SAN DIEGO – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) stood with innovative job-creators and leaders in San Diego’s economic community supporting a repeal of the harmful medical device tax. This comes on the heels of his vote yesterday in the U.S. House of Representatives to repeal the Medical Device Tax. Rep. Peters called for immediate action by the U.S. Senate and approval by President Obama. Peters also toured Quidel, a company headquartered in Carmel Valley with 300 local employees ranging from highly-skilled production workers to scientists and engineers, including some recent graduates from local universities. Other attendees at the visit included Randall Steward, Chief Financial Officer (CFO) at Quidel; Rowena Coulin, Associate Scientist at Quidel; and Joe Panetta, President and CEO, BIOCOM. “Yesterday in the House of Representatives we voted to repeal the Medical Device Tax; this tax is harming innovation at companies across the country, and stunting start-up potential,” Rep. Peters said. “Medical device companies support 11,000 workers in our region and we should be making it easier for job-creators to start their ventures here at home, with American workers. There is no better opportunity to ‘Make-it-in-America’ than to support the development and manufacturing of medical devices.” Between San Diego, Imperial, Orange, and Riverside Counties there are nearly 250 medical device companies directly employing 11,100 workers, according to BIOCOM. The medical device industry supports nearly $10 billion in economic activity each year in the region and 48,000 direct, indirect, and induced jobs. “Rep. Scott Peters has been a tireless supporter of medical innovation. He understands the tremendous burden the device tax has placed on companies, especially smaller companies – hindering their ability to invest in the next great advancement. These investments are critical in the field of diagnostics, where companies like Quidel deliver tremendous innovations in tests that detect disease faster and more accurately, guide treatment decisions, and advance patient care while helping to more effectively allocate health care dollars,” said Andrew Fish, Executive Director at AdvaMedDx Background on Rep. Peters’ Work to Repeal the Medical Device Tax: Rep. Peters voted to repeal the tax yesterday in the U.S. House of Representatives. It now must pass the Senate, where a repeal effort has bipartisan support including from Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) before moving to the President for signature. 2/6/13 – Cosponsored legislation to repeal the tax in the 113th Congress 9/29/13 – Voted to repeal the tax 1/6/15 – Cosponsored H.R. 160 to repeal the tax in the 114th Congress 1/12/15 – Spoke out against the tax with a bipartisan group of colleagues 5/1/15 – Led a letter of 17 Democratic colleagues calling for action to repeal the tax 6/2/15 – Penned an opinion piece with Reps. Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09) and Suzan DelBene (WA-01) in the Huffington Post against the tax 6/18/15 – Voted again to repeal the tax ###
06.17.2015	Rep. Peters Helps Improve, Increases Access to Quality Healthcare for Seniors WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass four measures that will improve the quality of Medicare Advantage and increase access for seniors to the popular healthcare plans. Rep. Peters has actively, and successfully, fought past efforts to cut Medicare Advantage in 2014 and again this year. “These bills will help ensure that Medicare Advantage continues to be a viable program for seniors,” Rep. Peters said. “Our seniors depend on Medicare and have earned it over a lifetime of hard work; it provides preventative care that leads to better lives for San Diego seniors and helps reduce health care costs in the long run.” The four bills Congressman Peters helped pass today are listed below: H.R. 2505 – the Medicare Advantage Coverage Transparency Act, which improves reporting about seniors using Medicare Advantage to more accurately target care. H.R. 2507 – the Increasing Regulatory Fairness Act, which will allow providers, stakeholders, and consumers extended time to give constructive feedback regarding potential Medicare Advantage rates. H.R. 2582 – the Securing Seniors’ Health Care Act, which will allow seniors to continue to choose and keep Medicare Advantage plans that work for them, even as standards of care are raised. H.R. 2570 – the Strengthening Medicare Advantage through Innovation and Transparency for Seniors Act, which will reduce the costs to the government of the program by incentivizing preventative treatments for seniors. ###
06.12.2015	Rep. Scott Peters Stands for American Leadership, Prosperity for Working Families WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after voting in favor of Trade Adjustment Authority (TAA) and Trade Promotion Authority (TPA). TPA provides more than 100 directives to President Obama that must be met in future international trade agreements: “Over the past months, I’ve made it a priority to hear and evaluate every argument for and against Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) and, ultimately, the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP). Many people whose opinions I value and trust have made strong, passionate cases on both sides. “San Diego is a port city that depends on trade, especially with Mexico and Asia. Our innovation economy, led by Qualcomm and other hi-tech, biotech and life science companies, depends on access to foreign markets with protections for American-made intellectual property. The success of the employers creating San Diego’s jobs of the future is hugely dependent on the ability to export their Made in America goods. More than 90 percent of these businesses are small or mid-sized, with fewer than 500 employees, and their success is critical to the ability of the working families in my district to get ahead. “I voted for TPA because, for America to be the leader we all want it to be, America needs to be the nation that makes the rules and sets the standards in a global marketplace. That means giving the President of the United States the ability to negotiate trade agreements with developing nations with the greatest potential for growth. I can’t imagine a national strategy to boost domestic working-class employment and raise now-stagnant wages without providing more access to foreign markets for American-made exports. Nationally, that’s a manufacturing imperative. “If America doesn’t seize this opportunity to lead, other nations -- especially China -- will. China’s rules, like its record, would have little regard for even the most basic of human rights and environmental standards. This rigs the system in their favor, and tips the scales against American workers. “The standards set for workers, human rights, food safety, and clean air and water will be higher, better, stronger, and more enforceable if America is at the table led by the President who passed Dodd-Frank and health care reform, saved the American auto industry, and advanced the most aggressive climate action plan of any American president. He shares my values, and has committed to pursuing these values in this agreement. “Today’s votes did not include the TPP, or any trade agreement. My vote on TPP, some months from now, will depend on whether the President delivers on his commitment to these standards in a final, transparent agreement that will be available -- every word of it -- for public review for at least 60 days before Congress approves or rejects. “I understand that those most skeptical of TPP feel burned, let down, and left behind by past trade agreements, particularly NAFTA. Their mistrust comes from a real place; promises made weren’t kept, and the standards they were promised were unenforced. After many, many hours of reading the text, and grilling officials from USTR, the Department of Labor, the EPA and others, and after hearing from advocates on both sides, I am wholeheartedly convinced of the very real flaws of NAFTA, and equally convinced that the best way to fix these past wrongs is through new agreements that contain stronger mechanisms for enforcement. That is what the President is working to accomplish in TPP, and I believe we should give him the chance. “I thank everyone who took the time to meet with me, call me, write me and argue passionately for what you believe. I want you to know I heard each and every one of you, which is why this decision was a difficult one. To those who asked me to oppose TPA, I want you to know that while we disagreed this time on how to achieve the values we all share, I will continue to fight for those values and remain committed to doing what’s best for San Diegans.” ###
06.10.2015	Rep. Peters Fights for LGBT Non-Discrimination in Federal Transportation and Housing Programs Peters’ Amendment Passes House with Overwhelming Bipartisan Support: 241-184 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Late last night, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) proposed an amendment on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives calling for LGBT equality and non-discrimination provisions in federal transportation and housing programs. The amendment passed with bipartisan support on a 241-184 vote. “No American should be fired or denied a job or place to live for being who they are or because of who they love,” Rep. Peters said. “My amendment would demonstrate that Congress is willing to lead on equality and fairness as we work toward full non-discrimination provisions for LGBT individuals.” Video of Scott fights for LGBT Non-Discrimination Watch Rep. Peters’ speech on the floor last evening by clicking above. Background on Rep. Peters’ Amendment In July 2014, President Obama signed an executive order to prohibit contractors from discriminating based on sexual orientation and gender identity in employment. Rep. Peters’ amendment would not allow federal transportation or housing funds to be used in contravention of the President’s order, continuing precedent that no federal contract be awarded to a person or organization that discriminates on the basis of sexual orientation of gender identity against either its employees or applicants for employment. Currently, only 18 states, including California, and the District of Columbia have non-discrimination protections for the entire LGBT community in both employment and housing. In numerous states where marriage equality is recently legal that means that an LGBT individual can get married in the morning, and then fired from their job or denied a rental application in the afternoon for no other reason than their marital status changed. ###
06.05.2015	Rep. Peters Named Arts Education ‘Legislator of the Year’ SAN DIEGO – Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) was recognized as ‘Legislator of the Year’ by the San Diego County Art Education Association (SDCAEA). This is the second year the SDCAEA, a volunteer association of Visual Arts Educators in San Diego County with the singular objective of enhancing quality Visual Arts Education throughout the county, has honored an elected official in the region for their work to support arts education. “The visual arts are a critical piece of our region’s public spaces, attracting both tourists and locals to Balboa Park, the Embarcadero, and communities across San Diego,” Rep. Peters said. “Arts education is an essential part of youth development, adding both to the quality of life and continued economic vitality in our neighborhoods.” Peters is a former board member of the Museum of Contemporary Art San Diego and a leader in the ‘Murals of La Jolla’ effort, and was a strong advocate for public art while on the San Diego Unified Port Commission and San Diego City Council. This month he will be welcoming the high-school winner of the 52nd District’s Congressional Art Competition to the United States Capitol Building where her work will be displayed for the next year. ###
06.04.2015	Rep. Scott Peters Intros Two Bills to Support Vets Access to Mental Health Care WASHINGTON, D.C. – Late yesterday, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) re-introduced two pieces of legislation to help veterans struggling with Post-Traumatic Stress and other forms of mental illness after they’ve served our nation. The first would continue the effort to break down barriers to discussing mental health issues by designating the first week of May each year as “National Health No Stigma Week.” The second is bipartisan and would make it easier for California-licensed marriage and family therapists to work in Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers. “These bills are about getting American veterans access to the care they have earned and deserve, and to provide veterans and their families with the tools necessary to overcome the unseen battle scars,” Rep. Peters said. “As a society we are losing too many friends and family members to mental health issues in part because of the negative stigma we’ve attached to the topic, a pain being felt particularly hard in our veterans’ community.” Background on the Legislation: “National Mental Health No Stigma Week” Resolution Would designate the first week of May each year a ‘no stigma’ week to raise awareness about mental health, and to help break down the barriers to discussing the topic Mental illness hurts a broad spectrum of people: Children: 13% of children between ages 8-15, and 20% of all teenagers face mental health issues Adults (approximately 1 million adult suicide attempts each year), Veterans (average more than 20 suicides per day) “Marriage and Family Therapists for Veterans Act” Adjusts eligibility requirements to allow the VA to consider the applications of marriage and family therapists certified by regionally accredited programs Currently 95% of California’s marriage and family therapists are not able to work at VA medical centers Marriage and family therapists are a key component of helping servicemembers and veterans re-enter civilian life, particularly after time in combat zones ###
06.01.2015	Rep. Peters Leads Call for Community Oversight over Toxic Polluters WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) spoke on the House floor supporting his amendment to H.R. 1335 to give communities input and increase the ability of local agencies to hold polluters more accountable after an oil or hazardous materials spill. “Coastal communities deal with the harm from a spill long after the initial cleanup ends, and they deserve greater oversight over those who caused the damage,” Rep. Peters said. “In San Diego, where the maritime industry and our large natural harbor are key parts of our region’s tourism economy, and support 158,000 local jobs and $18.3 billion in economic impact, a polluting spill could devastate the local economy and irreparably harm our delicate ecosystem.” Peters continued, “Just a few weeks ago, on the California coast north of Santa Barbara, a pipeline ruptured underneath a coastal cliff, spilling 105,000 gallons of crude oil onto the beach and tidelands, and into the Pacific Ocean. Despite rapid cleanup efforts from environmental officials and volunteers from across the state, the leak killed abundant marine life including lobsters, seals, kelp bass, and local fish populations. Local communities and businesses should not be burdened by that cost through no fault of their own.” Click the image above to watch Rep. Peters’ speech or click HERE. Congressman Peters’ amendment would have three requirements of polluters following a spill: First, it directs the relevant Regional Fishery Management Council to conduct a full environmental assessment of the spill. Second, it requires the responsible party to pay for any pollution cleanup and restoration of harmed fishers, and to provide compensation for economic and job losses due to the spill. Third, it protects public safety and food quality by requiring that polluters pay for testing of toxins in fish and in local waters to help fishermen determine the safest areas for fishing. Peters’ amendment to the bill was not approved and he opposed final passage of H.R. 1335, the “Strengthening Fishing Communities and Increasing Flexibilities Management Act.” The bill would cut previously enacted bipartisan conservation measures and would replace proven fishery management processes with weaker alternatives that undermine transparency and accountability. ###
05.29.2015	Rep. Peters, Lifeguards, Drowning Prevention Advocate Urge Families to ‘Pool Safely’ This Summer SAN DIEGO – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) joined with San Diego Lifeguard Lonnie Stephens and Mary Ann Downing of Safe Kids San Diego’s Drowning Prevention Task Force to raise awareness for San Diego families about pool and beach safety and drowning prevention. Ruth Cassidy of the Boys and Girls Club of Clairemont Mesa also spoke about their learn-to-swim programs. Memorial Day is the traditional start of pool and beach swimming season across the country. According to the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, drowning is the leading cause of unintentional death for children between ages 1 and 4. “While it is pool season year round here in San Diego, as schools let out for the summer it is important to raise awareness and provide parents and families with information about preventing tragedies at our beaches and pools,” Rep. Peters said. “By increasing awareness around a few simple steps including staying alert and watching children around the pool, learning and practicing water skills, and having appropriate safety equipment at your pool – all tips promoted by the Consumer Product Safety Commission – we can prevent these terrible accidents from happening,” Peters continued. More than 375 pool or spa-related drownings of children 15 and under occur each year. In San Diego, there were 99 unintentional drowning deaths of children under age 19 between 2000 and 2013, according to the California Department of Health. More information about pool safety efforts, including resources for parents and families, listings of recalled products, and ways to share your story can be accessed at PoolSafely.gov or on Peters’ website at ScottPeters.House.Gov. ###
05.22.2015	Rep. Peters to Help Archive Stories of SD Vets in Library of Congress SAN DIEGO – Authorized by Congress in 2000, the Veterans History Project gives men and women who have served the opportunity to share their important histories with future generations by recording them and having them archived at the Library of Congress. Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced a plan to make it easier for San Diego veterans to participate by facilitating the interviews directly through his San Diego District Office in University City. At the announcement, held in front of the Veterans Museum and Memorial Center in Balboa Park, Peters was joined by local veterans’ community leaders, including a World War II veteran who has been able to participate in the program. “Today, San Diego is home to over 110,000 active-duty military service members and over 230,000 veterans,” Rep. Peters said. “This rich history and presence is why I’m announcing this morning that my office will now make it easier for local veterans to participate in the Congressional Veterans History Project.” Peters continued, “The project archives accounts of America’s war veterans so future generations may hear their stories and better understand the realities of war. It is a great opportunity for San Diego to show its continued support and commitment to those who have served.” Starting today, Rep. Peters’ San Diego staff will be helping to conduct interviews and document the stories of veterans from all eras to be preserved for future generations. Veterans who want to participate should contact Rep. Peters San Diego District Office at 858-455-5550 or sign up on his website. Veterans can be interviewed in multiple formats, based on national guidelines, including original unedited video and audio recordings, and they can also submit photographs, letters, diaries, journals, military documents, two-dimensional artworks, maps, and unpublished memoirs. For more information, interested veterans should visit scottpeters.house.gov/veteranshistoryproject, sign up here, or call 858-455-5550. ###
05.19.2015	Rep. Peters Calls for Long-Term Funds to Fix Nation’s Roads, Bridges, Ports WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after passage of H.R. 2353 to extend Highway Trust Fund-financed projects through the end of July. “I supported today’s short-term extension so that America does not default on projects we’ve already committed to, but these short-term fixes have got to stop. It is long past time for Republicans and Democrats to come together behind a real and enduring plan to fix our nation’s crumbling roads and bridges and to modernize our shipping ports so we can increase growth, overcome wage stagnation, and create jobs,” said Rep. Peters. Peters said that during the next two months he would be looking hard at several potential paths toward a sustainable Highway Trust Fund, including plans by Republican Congressman Renacci of Ohio and another from Democratic Representative Delaney of Maryland. “We must have a long-term plan to fully fund the Highway Trust Fund before the July 31 deadline,” Peters stated. “In the next fifteen years, as our economy grows, the demands on highways, ports, and freight-railways will only increase. If we don’t get ahead of this curve, costly gridlock will severely hamper our economic growth.” Peters continued, “Despite our international competitors making massive investments in their infrastructure programs, here in the United States the Congress continues to demonstrate its inability to provide more than a few months of investment certainty to our communities, construction businesses, and American workers. That’s unacceptable and puts our economy at risk.” Infrastructure investments have a real, significant economic benefit for individual communities across the country, including San Diego, where bridges, roads, transit and alternative transportation, rail, ports, and freight systems are all in dire need of upgrades. According to the Department of Transportation, California alone has 24,812 bridges, nearly 17% of which are ‘functionally obsolete,’ and 175,499 miles of public road, of which only 60% have acceptable pavement coverage. The American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) estimates that by 2030 we will see a 25% increase in vehicle travel and a 64% increase in travel from commercial trucks. ###
05.15.2015	Rep. Peters Fights for Strong and Smart Military, Helps Pass National Security Budget WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) continued his support for a United States Military that has the resources and tools needed to support our troops and keep the American people safe. Peters voted in favor of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) on the House floor, which passed 269-151. “Our country needs a strong, smart, forward-looking military force that provides our warfighters with the tools necessary to quickly and decisively confront the dynamic new threats facing our nation at home and our countrymen abroad,” Rep. Peters said. “I remain opposed to the across-the-board cuts known as sequester that limit the ability of our military commanders to effectively plan for the future, and will continue pushing Congressional leaders to end this reckless policy. “In the end, I supported this bill because we must give our military the resources it needs to keep our country safe, which continues to be the most important job for Congress. San Diego will benefit from this military budget, particularly around our region’s role in providing special warfare and innovative technologies,” Peters stated. Watch Rep. Peters’ speech on the national security imperative of diversifying our military’s energy portfolio HERE. The NDAA serves as the roadmap for defense spending for the 2016 Fiscal Year that begins on September 1, 2015. Congressman Peters also supported the bill when it passed the House Armed Services Committee last month on a 60-2 vote. Congressman Peters had seven amendments included in this year’s NDAA: Asks the Department of Defense to report on its plan to merge two offices at the Pentagon which handle parts of the military’s energy strategy and sustainability efforts. Congress and the American people need assurance that these offices have the staff and resources to complete the mission asked of them, and to see if the desired increase in efficiency is being achieved. Protecting California’s access to firefighting aircraft that are owned by the National Guard. Reforms to the acquisition process in the DOD so that smaller companies can have the same opportunity to compete with larger companies. Greater competition is the smart way to provide the DOD with the best array of options. Support for DOD programs that provide specialized camps for military children who are grieving the loss of a parent, guardian, or sibling. These camps are also available for children with a parent, guardian, or sibling struggling with addiction. Promoting military energy efficiency for the KC-X tanker aircraft that has been used for fuel transport and firefighting efforts. Expanding military fuel supply diversity by requiring the DOD to brief the Armed Services Committee on innovative technologies to efficiently improve the range and endurance of tactical vehicles Support for programs including zero8hundred which provide community-based transition programs in the Department of Defense Transition Assistance Program. The amendment requires the DOD to brief the Armed Services on the effectiveness of these programs in supporting our military and veteran families. ###
05.12.2015	Rep. Peters Reintroduces Bill to Strengthen Community Disaster Preparedness WASHINGTON, D.C. – Recently, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) reintroduced legislation to help communities better prepare for disasters. H.R. 2227, the bipartisan “Strengthening the Resiliency of Our Nation on the Ground (STRONG) Act” gives state and local entities access to information needed to prepare, plan for, and recover from extreme weather events such as catastrophic wildfires that have devastated San Diego communities in the past. “Building up community resiliency will save lives and save money; we know that for every dollar invested in preparedness and resiliency, we save four dollars in restoration. Not to mention the lives that could be saved, something we cannot put a dollar value on,” Rep. Peters said. “Ensuring the we are better able to withstand extreme weather events is not a partisan issue, and we must be focused on equipping states and localities with the tools they need both in advance and in the aftermath of natural disasters.” “The STRONG Act streamlines disaster relief efforts and increases coordination among state, local, and private and public sector entities,” said Rep. Jim Renacci (OH-16). “By providing state and local governments with the tools they need, the STRONG Act will strengthen our preparation and response to natural disasters while also cutting costs in the long-run. It’s commonsense to bolster communication across all channels, and that’s why I’m proud to support it. ” At introduction, the STRONG Act had 17 cosponsors, and support from 25 organizations including the Sierra Club, National Wildlife Federation, and the American Sustainable Business Council. According to the Center for American Progress, over the last 4 years the federal government has spent more than $136 billion on relief for hurricanes, tornadoes, droughts, wildfires, and other weather related incidents. The STRONG Act, which makes communities more resilient to disasters through the creation of an information clearinghouse for state and local use, will save taxpayer money and save lives. Bryan Koon, President of the National Emergency Management Association, said, “On behalf of the National Emergency Management Association (NEMA), I am pleased to offer our support for the ‘Strengthening the Resiliency of Our Nation on the Ground’ or STRONG Act. We appreciate Congressman Peters’ commitment to long term resiliency. As recovery from disasters continues to be a critical challenge faced by many communities across the country, we look forward to the dialogue this bill will certainly encourage.” Keith Seitter, Executive Director of the American Meteorological Society, stated the following in support of the STRONG Act, “The AMS strongly supports legislative efforts that will increase the resiliency of our nation to natural hazards of all types. I commend Congressman Peters for his ongoing efforts to improve the nation’s resiliency to natural hazards.” ###
05.12.2015	Rep. Peters Announces Winner of 2015 Congressional Art Competition SAN DIEGO – Last evening, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters hosted a reception, attended by more than 100, for the participants of the 52nd District’s Congressional Art Competition and their families. At the event, held at The Athenaeum Music and Arts Library in La Jolla, Rep. Peters announced Carolyn Chu had been selected by the judging panel as the winner and Rachel Liu had won the fan favorite competition. “Congratulations to Carolyn and Rachel and thank you to all the students who submitted their creative pieces to the competition. The arts and design allow students to develop creative problem solving abilities, which employers list as one of the top five skills that will become increasingly important over the next 5 years,” Rep. Peters stated. “Our great panel of judges also deserve a shout out for their work again this year.” The winning entry, as judged by a panel of local art experts, was "14 Second Daydream" by Carolyn Chu of Torrey Pines High School. Her work will be displayed in the United States Capitol Building for the next year. Winner Carolyn Chu’s piece "14 Second Daydream" The fan favorite, as determined by the most ‘Likes’ of the image on the Congressman’s Facebook page was "Giant Down Below” by Rachel Liu of Canyon Crest Academy. Her work will be placed on display at Congressman Peters’ District Office near the UTC Mall. ###
05.11.2015	Rep. Peters Leads 17 Colleagues in Effort to Repeal Harmful Medical Device Excise Tax WASHINGTON, D.C. – Late last week, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) led a group of first and second-term members of the U.S. House of Representatives in calling for a repeal of the harmful medical device excise tax. The letter, sent to House Speaker John Boehner, Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, Ways and Means Committee Chairman Paul Ryan, and Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin, was co-signed by 17 other members. “Repealing this harmful tax would be a welcome relief for hundreds of innovative job-creators across the country, particularly at a time when job growth is the top priority for the American people. Congress must be supporting the growth of businesses that make these products in America and employ American workers,” Rep. Peters said. “San Diego’s and America’s future economic competitiveness depends on the success of our innovators. Congress needs to support them by repealing this tax. Signatories to the letter were as follows: Rep. Brad Ashford (NE-02), Rep. Ann Kuster (NH-02), Rep. Patrick Murphy (FL-18), Rep. Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Rep. Norma Torres (CA-35), Rep. Cheri Bustos (IL-17), Rep. Julia Brownley (CA-26), Rep. Gwen Graham (FL-02), Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31), Rep. Ami Bera (CA-07), Rep. Katherine Clark (MA-05), Rep. Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Rep. Seth Moulton (MA-06), Rep. Raul Ruiz (CA-36), Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09), and Rep. Juan Vargas (CA-51). In the 113th Congress, Rep. Peters cosponsored legislation to repeal the tax and voted to repeal it in September 2013. In the 114th Congress, in addition to cosponsoring H.R. 160 which would repeal the tax, Peters has consistently advocated against the job-killing, anti-innovation measure. ###
05.04.2015	Rep. Peters Highlights San Diego’s zero8hundred in Meeting with VA Secretary McDonald WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) and representatives from zero8hundred met with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA), Robert McDonald, to discuss the innovative approach San Diego is taking in providing assistance to service members as they transition into civilian life and employment. “San Diego is renowned as a hub for innovation, collaboration, and bipartisan problem-solving, which is why I am glad the Secretary came to hear from zero8hundred about their program to help improve the quality of life for service members across San Diego as they return to civilian life,” Rep. Peters stated. “Innovative, collaborative programs like zero8hundred can serve as a national model for communities across the country as we work to support our veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan.” During the recent House Armed Services Committee markup of the ‘National Defense Authorization Act,’ Rep. Peters worked to ensure the bill included an amendment to support programs, such as zero8hundred, which provide community-based transition programs in the Department of Defense Transition Assistance Program. His amendment will require the DOD to brief the Armed Services on the effectiveness of these programs in supporting our military and veteran families. Background on zero8hundred: Early in 2013, Rep. Peters met with local advocates to find out how to best leverage his new role to support San Diego’s transitioning service members and veterans. The consensus among these leaders is that while San Diego is home to some of the best organizations and services for veterans, it needed a centrally coordinated hub for transitioning service members to find services, job training, and employment opportunities. zero8hundred is the product of these discussions and nearly two years of planning. This past January, zero8hundred was implemented at Naval Base San Diego and Naval Base Coronado.
05.01.2015	Rep. Peters Raises Profile of San Diego as World-Renowned ‘Smart City’ in Washington D.C. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) was the featured speaker at the Washington, D.C. premiere of National Geographic’s "World's Smart Cities: San Diego," a one-hour documentary special focused on uncovering what makes San Diego one of the most innovative, forward-thinking cities across the globe. San Diego is one of only four cities in the world, and the only U.S. city on National Geographic’s list. “San Diego has a lot that it can teach the rest of the country, and the world, about how we are leading the way as a smart city through collaboration, innovation, and brain power,” Rep Peters stated. “Since my first day in Congress I have made it a priority to spread the collaborative approach that has made our region a center of world-class scientific research, and home to workers at the forefront of discovery. It is encouraging to see that work built upon with the release of National Geographic’s ‘World's Smart Cities: San Diego’ documentary.” ###
04.30.2015	Rep. Peters Champions San Diego Priorities, Strong Military for the Future in National Security Budget WASHINGTON, D.C. – Throughout yesterday and into early this morning, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) continued his strong advocacy for San Diego’s defense priorities, and for a military that is adaptable and prepared to fight the dynamic new threats that our country faces. The House Armed Services Committee markup of the ‘National Defense Authorization Act,’ (NDAA), which serves as a roadmap for national defense spending for the 2016 Fiscal Year that begins September 1, 2015, passed the Committee on a 60-2 vote at 4:39am. It now heads to the House floor for action. “America needs a military that is smart, tough, and prepared for the new world of threats that we face,” Rep. Peters said. “This NDAA continues to move us in that direction through pragmatic, forward-looking investments in the effective technologies that ensure our warfighters have the tools they need to respond quickly and decisively to our enemies and keep our country safe.” Peters continued, “San Diego will benefit from this budget, which continues a focus on the Special Forces that call our region home, the unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) which are developed and built in our county, and on the Marine Corps and Navy that are leading the way in our country’s strategic pivot to the Pacific.” Congressman Peters spoke out specifically to fight for the diversification of our military’s fuel supply, particularly by protecting the ability of the Department of Defense (DOD) to develop biofuels and other alternative energy for ships, planes, and tactical vehicles. Watch his remarks HERE and HERE. All of Congressman Peters’ amendments were adopted into the NDAA. Details on each are below: Protecting California’s access to firefighting aircraft that are owned by the National Guard Reforms to the acquisition process in the DOD so that smaller companies can have the same opportunity to compete with larger companies. Greater competition is the smart way to provide the DOD with the best array of options. Support for DOD programs that provide specialized camps for military children who are grieving the loss of a parent, guardian, or sibling. These camps are also available for children with a parent, guardian, or sibling struggling with addiction. Promoting military energy efficiency for the KC-X tanker aircraft that has been used for fuel transport and firefighting efforts. Expanding military fuel supply diversity by requiring the DOD to brief the Armed Services Committee on innovative technologies to efficiently improve the range and endurance of tactical vehicles Support for programs including zero8hundred which provide community-based transition programs in the Department of Defense Transition Assistance Program. The amendment requires the DOD to brief the Armed Services on the effectiveness of these programs in supporting our military and veteran families. Sean Mahoney, Executive Director of zero8hundred stated the following in support of Congressman Peters’ amendment: "Service members benefit greatly from a community handoff from their mandatory transition programs. zero8hundred connects military members and their families to the San Diego community, helping them overcome challenges in transition. This amendment will help ensure consideration is given to these important programs. Congressman Scott Peters has been an important part of this initiative since the very beginning of the planning stage. We have been happy to see so many service members sign up for this voluntary program so they can get the assistance needed for a successful transition."
04.30.2015	Reps. Peters, Walorski Promote Programs to Support Children of Service Members WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) and Congresswoman Jackie Walorski’s (IN-02) bipartisan amendment requesting the Department of Defense support non-profit programs that provide support for children of service members suffering from mental disorders was included in the 2016 National Defense Authorization Act. “Our military families, especially the children, of our men and women in uniform have been asked to make many sacrifices and it is our responsibility to ensure that we are providing them all the support they need. Thank you to Rep. Walorksi for working with me to guarantee children of our service members have access to these necessary resources,” Rep. Peters stated. “Camps like those sponsored by the Moyer Foundation help us keep our promises to our military families. They give these brave children the opportunity to be surrounded by their peers, understand that they are not alone in their experiences and their struggles, and have the opportunity to enjoy just being a kid.” “Giving military children a chance to unwind for a few days and escape the pressures and stresses that accompany their lives to feel like a regular kid is the least we can do for families sacrificing so much for this great nation,” Walorski said. “I want to thank Rep. Peters and the Moyer Foundation for their steadfast support to provide an environment where children of our brave servicemen and women can utilize valuable skills long after they leave camp.” Karen Moyer, Co-Founder and Vice President of the Moyer Foundation stated, "We appreciate the unwavering support of Rep. Peters and Rep. Walorski for military families and making sure that no child grieves alone and recognizing that, together, we can break the cycle of addiction. Supporting kids of military families helps the overall health and wellness of our Armed Forces so they can live on and live well. Camp Erin and Camp Mariposa are truly saving lives by providing a support system for children and teens, including those from military families." ###
04.24.2015	Rep. Peters Intros Bill to Revoke Passports of Americans Fighting for ISIS; Comes Same Week Two U.S. Suspects Attempted to Travel to Syria WASHINGTON, D.C. – Late yesterday, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) re-introduced H.R. 2020, the “Treason and Passport Revocation Act” with support from Congressman Juan Vargas (CA-51), just days after two Minneapolis men were arrested in San Diego when they attempted to cross into Mexico en route to Syria to fight for ISIS. The bill would require the Secretary of State to deny or revoke passports of any individual who is determined to be a member of, or affiliated with, a foreign terrorist organization. It would also amend the United States Code to deem membership or affiliation with a foreign terrorist organization as an act of treason. “Preventing terrorists from harming Americans is the most important job for Congress, and I’m proud to work with Congressman Vargas to reintroduce this important bill. As we’ve seen this week, the threat to our homeland is real and we must take action to stop these folks from returning here,” Rep. Peters said. “Those who side with terrorist organizations, be it ISIS, Al Qaeda, or others, should not be allowed to freely return to this country. We need to update our laws to reflect the new threats we face, which are more dangerous than ever given the ease of international travel.” “During this time of heightened global security, Americans and other Westerners continue to leave their countries to fight for ISIS/ISIL in Iraq and Syria,” said Rep. Vargas. “An individual that sides with a terrorist organization loses the privilege of returning to this country for treason. Limiting or revoking passports in this situation is a necessary measure to ensure they will not pose a threat to the lives of innocent Americans.” Under current law, the Secretary of State has the authority to limit or revoke a passport of an applicant whose activities abroad are seen as a threat to U.S. national security. This bill would make it a requirement for the Secretary of State to limit or revoke the passport of those who are members or are affiliated with foreign terrorist organizations. ###
04.22.2015	Rep. Peters Votes to Protect Consumer Protection Bureau WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) voted against efforts to undermine the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and continued his support for programs that protect Americans from fraud and predatory practices. The CFPB was established in the wake of the 2008 financial collapse to help safeguard the American people from future financial sector malfeasance. “Protecting American consumers from deceptive and unfair practices should be the goal of any bill making changes to the CFPB; unfortunately today’s bill would undercut the Bureau’s ability to carry out its essential work,” Rep. Peters said. “As we work to grow the economy, San Diegans should have confidence that abuses in the financial marketplace are being prevented, that competition and transparency are increasing, and that there are more resources available for financial planning and student loan assistance.” H.R. 1195, which Rep. Peters opposed today, would cut funding for the CFPB by $50 million in Fiscal Year 2020 and nearly $100 million in Fiscal Year 2025. ###
04.14.2015	Rep. Peters’ Statement on Equal Pay Day Women in CA-52 Earn Only 80 cents for Every Dollar Earned by Men WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement to mark ‘Equal Pay Day,’ the date when women’s wages catch up to what men were paid in the previous year. Nationwide, according to the American Association of University Women, women earn only 78 cents to each dollar earned by their male counterparts, and in the 52nd District women earn just 80 cents for every dollar earned by men. “As a husband, a father to a young woman, and a boss, I am committed to see that women earn equal pay for equal work,” Rep. Peters said. “Households across San Diego increasingly rely on women’s wages to pay bills, educate their children or pay for childcare, and save for retirement. San Diego families simply can’t afford for women to make only 80 cents to every dollar a male counterpart makes. As a supporter of the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would strengthen and close the loopholes of the Equal Pay Act and move our country that much closer to ending gender discrimination in pay, I will continue working to expand economic and educational opportunities for women and girls. Our country cannot be successful if women are not getting the equal pay they deserve and have earned.” Because of the Congressman's strong advocacy for ending gender discrimination, a member of his San Diego staff, Sarah Czarnecki, has been asked by the Lawyers Club of San Diego to be a featured panelist at the club's annual Equal Pay Day Leadership Luncheon. ###
04.13.2015	Rep. Peters Recognizes His Award Winning Team SAN DIEGO – Recently, members of Congressman Scott Peters' San Diego office were recognized for their contributions to the community and dedication to public service. “Our office is full of smart, energetic, caring people who are committed to making their communities better and pursuing causes they are passionate about,” Rep. Peters said. “I am proud of Howard, Avril, and Sarah and take a great pride in all of my staff who are working to serve and improve our community and country." Below are descriptions of awards the staff members received. Avril Prakash, Staff Assistant, was recognized at Speaker of the Assembly Toni Atkins’ San Diego Women of the Year Luncheon as an emerging female leader for her work as the first female Executive Director of the Student Organized Voter Access Committee, at the University of California San Diego, along with other accomplishments within UC San Diego and the local community. Howard Ou, Field Representative, received the Rising Star Award at the Asian Pacific American Coalition’s annual Civic Leadership Recognition & Awards celebration for his work to promote civic engagement in San Diego’s Asian Pacific American community. Sarah March, Office Manager, was recognized last year as ASIS International San Diego Chapter’s Military Recognition Award for her leadership and exemplary military service to our nation and the San Diego community.
03.31.2015	Rep. Peters, Labor Secretary Perez Highlight Local Organization Serving Homeless Veterans (l-r: Rep. Peters, Sec. Perez, Rep. Davis) SAN DIEGO – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) and U.S. Secretary of Labor Thomas Perez toured the Homeless Veteran Reintegration Program at People Assisting the Homeless (PATH) in Downtown San Diego. Rep. Peters and Secretary Perez met with homeless veterans and service providers to hear their perspectives on how to help homeless veterans off the streets, into stable housing, and back into the job market. “In San Diego, working to end veterans’ homelessness has been a collaborative and bipartisan effort undertaken between every level of government and by hundreds of non-profit and private-sector groups across our region. Today, Secretary Perez got a chance to see firsthand the work of one local group, PATH, and how they serve our veterans every day,” Rep. Peters said. “As a region unified in this effort, we hope Secretary Perez will see the progress San Diego has made in fighting veterans’ homelessness, how we can learn from success in other cities, and what lessons we can model for the rest of the country.” In addition to Rep. Peters and Secretary Perez, others in attendance included Congresswoman Susan Davis, local representatives from the Department of Labor’s Veterans’ Employment and Services division, and Sean Mahoney who serves as the Executive Director for Zero8Hundred, an organization Rep. Peters helped formulate to assist military servicemembers as they transition from active-duty back to civilian life. ###
03.27.2015	Rep. Peters Speaks at Outserve-SLDN National Conference SAN DIEGO – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) spoke at the Outserve-Servicemembers Legal Defense Network (SLDN) Annual Leadership Conference in Downtown San Diego. At the event, Peters thanked Outserve-SLDN for its history of advocacy on behalf of LGBT servicemembers and their families. Congressman Peters also fielded questions from members of the audience. “Our military should be about who can best help us complete the mission – clearly that has nothing to do with sexual orientation or gender identity,” Rep. Peters said. “At a time when we’re relying on an all-volunteer force, asking for longer deployments, and in serious need of individuals with specialized skills, we should not be turning away qualified individuals; that’s why I support fully open service in the military. “As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, my staff and I are constantly looking for places to include all couples in federal benefits, particularly in Department of Defense programs. It is my sincere hope that through your advocacy, engagement, and sharing of your personal experiences, we can move our country toward full equality.” Rep. Peters is an active member of the LGBT Equality Caucus in the U.S. House of Representatives, has received a 100% score from the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) in recent years, previously served on the Board of the San Diego LGBT Equality Center, and has been a public supporter of full marriage equality since running for San Diego City Council in 2000.
03.27.2015	Congressman Scott Peters Re-Introduces Bill to Lower Student Loan Burden WASHINGTON, D.C. – Late yesterday, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) re-introduced H.R. 1713, the “Student Loan Repayment Assistance Act,” legislation to increase college affordability by helping students pay off outstanding loan debt more quickly. “Affordable higher education for every American willing to work for it is central to ensuring future generations can achieve the American Dream and our nation’s competitiveness,” Rep. Peters said. “I would not have been able to attend college without student loans and work study programs. We should be making it easier and more affordable for students to go to college, not keeping it financially out of reach for more and more families.” Rep. Peters continued, “My legislation will help speed up the repayment process so that young people can begin to make investments that grow the economy, such as owning a home, starting a family, and putting something away for retirement.” The bill is part of Congressman Peters’ ongoing work to reduce the burden of student loans on American families. Last Congress, in addition to introducing the 2014 version of the ‘Student Loan Repayment Assistance Act,’ he introduced the bicameral “Federal Student Loan Refinancing Act” with Rep. Mark Pocan (WI-02) and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY). He was also vocal in the successful effort to stop federal student loan interest rates from doubling. Supporting organizations of H.R. 1713 include the National Education Association (NEA), Association of American Universities (AAU), American Council on Education (ACE), Student Debt Crisis, and uAspire. Bob Giannino, CEO of uAspire, in support of the legislation said, “Young college graduates today, more than ever before, are saddled with debt that limits their career options and delays their ability to benefit from the economic lift that a degree should provide. Employers can serve as a key partner in helping recent college graduates pay off their loans faster, thus helping them engage in our economy in more meaningful and productive ways. We are thrilled at Congressman Peters’ efforts to lead in this arena and are proud to support this bill.” Background on the “Student Loan Repayment Assistance Act” What it does: Creates an above the line deduction for student loan payments made as part of a repayment agreement between an employer and employee How it works: An employer enters into an agreement with an employee to assist him or her with student loan repayment up to $6,000 per year with a lifetime cap of $50,000 per individual Like a 401K plan, the employee determines how much he or she would like to pay toward their student loans on a monthly basis and the employer determines the rate at which they will assist Employee and employer contributions to student loan repayments are not subject to either income tax or payroll tax The total employer and employee contributions would go directly to the loan holder on a monthly basis How it affects repayment time: In 2013, according to the Institute for College Access & Success, the average student loan debt for borrowers who graduated from public and private nonprofit colleges was $28,400, with an interest rate of 3.86%. Assuming the standard 10 year repayment plan for a Stafford loan, the average annual payment would be $3,462. Using that data, the graph above demonstrates how this bill would decrease the time it takes for a graduate to pay off their student loan burden. ###
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after opposing today’s partisan budget proposals: “All Americans should have the opportunity to earn a living, own a home, put away something for retirement, and pursue their dreams. We need a middle-class prosperity budget that keeps America’s engine revving, creates high-paying jobs, and improves the skills of all Americans who seek them.” “Instead of providing the American people with a bipartisan budget that fosters economic growth and creates high-quality jobs here in America, both sides once again presented purely partisan ideas that are not a good faith effort to move our country forward and help hard-working families. “San Diegans, and Americans across the country, want and deserve a Congress that sits down together and crafts a bipartisan budget that cuts wasteful spending, tackles our long-term debt, keeps our nation secure, preserves a safety net for the most vulnerable, and invests in the programs that keep our country globally competitive. When we fail to put forth a bipartisan proposal that focuses on infrastructure, basic scientific research, and affordable higher education we risk our nation’s status as an economic power.” ###
03.19.2015	Rep. Scott Peters Named Senior Whip Selection recognizes Peters’ ability to build consensus, advocate for job-growth WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) was selected by Congressman Steny Hoyer, the House Democratic Whip, to serve as a Senior Whip for the 114th Congress. “I am honored Whip Hoyer asked me to serve as a Senior Whip; this new role will increase my ability to advocate for San Diego’s priorities and showcase our region as being at the forefront of innovation and growth,” Rep. Peters said. “I will continue to fight for forward-looking policies that create high-quality jobs for all seeking the American dream, such as owning a home, educating their children, and saving for retirement.” Senior Whips meet once a week, when Congress is in session, with Whip Hoyer for strategic discussions on the key issues facing our nation. Senior Whips are responsible for working with fellow Members to develop strategy and consensus about upcoming legislation that will be considered in the House. “I’m pleased to announce that Rep. Peters will serve as a Senior Whip in the 114th Congress,” stated Whip Hoyer. “Since coming to Congress, Rep. Peters has served as a tireless advocate for job creation and economic growth and has garnered respect from his colleagues for his commitment to consensus-building. He is a strong addition to the Whip team, and I look forward to working with him to advance our priorities of job creation and strengthening the middle class.” ###
03.19.2015	Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) launched the 2015 Congressional Art Competition for high school students in the 52nd District. The competition, which began in 1982 and has seen more than 650,000 participants, is held annually across the country. Over the last two years participation in our district’s annual competition has more than doubled, growing from 13 submissions in 2013 to 37 submissions in 2014. “This competition is a great opportunity to not only celebrate and showcase the artistic talent and creativity of students in San Diego, Coronado, and Poway, but also encourage students to explore their creativity in a way that will foster a lifelong love of the arts,” Peters said. “Arts and design allow students to develop creative problem solving abilities, which employers list as one of the top five skills that will become increasingly important over the next 5 years.” The competition is open to all high school students in the district. All entries must be an original in concept, design, and execution. The artwork may be: paintings, drawings, collage, prints, mixed media, computer generated art, and photography. The deadline for artwork submission is Wednesday, April 22nd, by 4:00 PM. Works must be delivered to Congressman Peters’ San Diego District Office at 4350 Executive Drive, Suite 105, San Diego, CA, 92121. High schools in the 52nd District were notified of the competition via a letter from Congressman Peters last month. Leaders from the local arts community will serve as the judging panel. The panel will select this year’s winner - who will be invited to a winners’ celebration in Washington, D.C., which coincides with the unveiling of the 2015 student artwork exhibition where his or her piece will be hung in the Capitol Building for one full year. For more information on the annual Congressional District Art Competition, visit: http://scottpeters.house.gov/art-competition
03.16.2015	Reps. Peters, Castro Lead Effort to Clear Green Card Backlog WASHINGTON – Today, Representatives Scott Peters (CA-52) and Joaquin Castro (TX-20) led 71 other colleagues in a letter to President Obama urging him to take concrete actions to help clear the green card backlog, improve the lives of hundreds of thousands of immigrants, and provide a critical shot in the arm for innovation and job creation. “If we want the best and brightest from around the world, who we are educating at American universities, to stay here and start or join innovative ventures here in the United States, we must fix this broken system,” Rep. Peters said. “President Obama can take simple steps today to recapture these unused visas, and help grow the economy and create American jobs.” “The United States provides top-notch educations to smart folks from around the world, and our economy stands to benefit from their brilliance after graduation,” said Congressman Castro. “Using his authority, President Obama can help eliminate the backlog of green card applications, retain talent educated in America, and enhance our nation’s ability to lead in today’s global economy.” Under the current, broken system, over 200,000 applications from people who qualify for green cards have been delayed due to bureaucratic error. That has unnecessarily hampered our economic growth, keeping families separated and making it more difficult for entrepreneurs to keep the talented individuals they need to grow their businesses here at home. Other signatories of the letter included the following: Conyers (MI-13), Lofgren (CA-19), Vargas (CA-51), DelBene (WA-01), Swalwell (CA-15), Cardenas (CA-29), Veasey (TX-33), Cohen (TN-09), McGovern (MA-02), Polis (CO-02), Lieu (CA-33), Doggett (TX-35), Connolly (VA-11), Tonko (NY-20), McCollum (MN-04), Farr (CA-20), Murphy (FL-18), Honda (CA-17), Kilmer (WA-06), Rice (NY-04), McDermott (WA-07), Hastings (FL-20), Jackson Lee (TX-18), Lowey (NY-17), Kirkpatrick (AZ-01), Kind (WI-03), Welch (VT), Eshoo (CA-18), Rangel (NY-13), Bera (CA-07), Davis (CA-53), Moore (WI-04), Bonamici (OR-01), Blumenauer (OR-03), Speier (CA-14), Pingree (ME-01), Takano (CA-41), Clarke (NY-09), Quigley (IL-05), Beyer (VA-08), Sinema (AZ-09), Schrader (OR-05), Schiff (CA-28), Deutch (FL-21), Lewis (GA-05), Aguilar (CA-31), Yarmuth (KY-03), Foster (IL-11), Larsen (WA-02), Nadler (NY-10), DeLauro (CT-03), Carney (DE), Johnson (GA-04), Li. Sanchez (CA-38), Delaney (MD-06), Himes (CT-04), S. Maloney (NY-18), Israel (NY-03), Capps (CA-24), Lujan-Grisham (NM-01), Crowley (NY-14), Holmes Norton (DC), Thompson (CA-05), Castor (FL-14), Gutierrez (IL-04), Jeffries (NY-08), Schakowsky (IL-09), C. Maloney (NY-12), Pocan (WI-02), Matsui (CA-06), Boyle (PA-13) A copy of the letter can be seen HERE, and the text is copied below. [BEGIN LETTER TEXT] Dear Mr. President: We write to encourage you to proceed with modernizing and streamlining the U.S. immigrant visa system, a policy you announced that you would pursue as part of the Presidential memorandum on executive immigration action on November 21, 2014. We agree with your characterization that “immigrants have helped the United States build the world's strongest economy,” and hope that further administrative progress toward reform can be made as quickly as possible given the urgent need to address economic challenges posed by our broken immigration system. As you know, businesses big and small, in nearly every sector of our economy, support immigration reform. Additionally, more than 3 in 4 Americans across the political spectrum support fixing our badly broken system. As American companies continue to grow, improving U.S. economic competitiveness, they need the ability to hire employees with specialized skills, specifically in the STEM fields. While we must continue to take steps to create the native-born high-skilled American workforce we need, high-skilled immigrants contribute to our expanding technology sector, create American jobs, and raise the wages of native-born American workers. Our broken immigration system is far behind the needs of our rapidly expanding economy. Immigrants allow the U.S. to compete in a global economy. Without reform, entrepreneurs and business owners are unable to hire the talent they need, many workers may be separated from their families, and hardworking foreign students who’ve earned their education at U.S. institutions will be kicked out to work for our global competitors - rather than creating their companies and growing jobs here at home. Year after year, applications for H-1B visas are met within mere days of the lottery opening. Our current immigration visa problems prevent the best and the brightest from expanding their companies in the U.S., growing our economy, and creating American jobs. In the absence of fundamental legislative reform to our broken system, we strongly encourage you to do what you can administratively to right this wrong. We are encouraged that you state in the memorandum that you will consult with relevant stakeholders to “ensure that administrative policies, practices, and systems use all of the immigrant visa numbers that the Congress provides for and intends to be issued, consistent with demand.” Visa recapture is an essential part of fixing our broken immigration system. We believe that in the absence of fundamental legislative reform, we can make progress toward the goal of recapturing and reallocating all previously unused visas administratively. This reform could impact hundreds of thousands of employment-based visas and would be the largest boost in decades impacting the business community’s urgent challenges navigating our broken legal immigration system. We urge you to modernize our immigrant visa inefficiencies by recapturing all previously unused green cards to benefit our country’s innovation, spur economic power, and help entrepreneurs create American jobs without further delay. [END LETTER TEXT] ###
02.27.2015	Rep. Peters Fights Reckless Homeland Security Shutdown WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) spoke on the House floor railing against the pending partial shutdown at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) that Congressional Republicans have manufactured through their consistent inability to pass comprehensive immigration reform. “Funding the Department of Homeland Security should be a simple bipartisan effort, but Republican leaders in Congress have continued to play political games when protecting our country should be paramount,” Rep. Peters said. Earlier this week, Rep. Peters helped introduce the “No Homeland Security, No Pay Act” (featured in The Hill here) to withhold member pay during the period of a DHS shutdown and another to make sure DHS employees, including Border Patrol agents and the Coast Guard tasked with keeping our borders safe, do receive retroactive pay whenever the shutdown ends. “It is simple — if the hardworking men and women in the Department of Homeland Security will continue to go to work but not receive a paycheck, members of Congress, who have failed to do their job, should not receive a paycheck either,” Peters continued. Click HERE or the image below to see Rep. Peters’ speech on the House floor. Video of Scott Calls for Homeland Security Funding ###
02.26.2015	Rep. Peters Releases #FixCongressNow Plan to Reform Government WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) formally released his ‘#FixCongressNow’ plan aimed at reducing government waste and getting Congress working again. Last Thursday evening, Peters held an interactive telephone town hall with thousands of constituents in the 52nd District to announce this plan and garner their input. “San Diegans are rightfully frustrated with a Congress that is a gridlocked, and an inflexible federal bureaucracy; government has to rebuild the trust it has lost with the American people through aggressive reforms and innovative problem solving,” Rep. Peters said. “My plan will make a number of reforms to fix Congress and get government working for the people again. The effort will also require a cultural shift in government away from continued bureaucratic growth and toward efficient customer service that better serves the taxpayer.” Rep. Peters’ plan includes six categories, each with individual policy proposals that will be introduced or cosponsored in the coming months: Make Congress Work Improve our Elections Remove Inefficiency and Government Waste Ensure Ethical Standards Increase Transparency and Openness Make Government Green To see the ‘#FixCongressNow’ plan and more detailed policy information click HERE.
02.12.2015	Rep. Peters Participates in White House Ceremony to Sign Vets Suicide Prevention Bill Into Law WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) participated in a ceremony at the White House where the “Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans (SAV) Act” was signed into law by President Obama. Peters was among several lawmakers invited to the White House East Room for the bill signing because of his strong advocacy for America’s veterans, and his particular focus on ending the upward trend in veteran suicides. “This will make a real difference in the lives of San Diego veterans and their families,” Rep. Peters said. “Getting the bill passed through Congress and signed by the President is the kind of bipartisan action that the American people expect, and that the country’s veterans deserve. This day would not have been possible without the help of veterans and advocates across the country, including Dr. Howard and Jean Somers from Coronado, who have been tireless in their commitment to making reforms at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).” Rep. Peters helped pass the “Clay Hunt SAV Act” in the House of Representatives and he recently hosted the Somers at the State of the Union to honor their work for reforms at the VA. H.R. 203, the “Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans (SAV) Act,” establishes a pilot program to help veterans access mental health services in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), requires the VA to set up a single website portal for mental health services, and authorizes the VA to take actions to increase retention of mental health staff. ###
02.05.2015	Rep. Peters Fights to Protect Servicemembers from Predatory Loan Sharks WASHINGTON – Today, on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) fought to stop predatory lenders from preying on our country’s active-duty servicemembers. “This is an acute problem in San Diego given the scale of military personnel in our region,” Rep Peters said. “When our men and women in uniform return from deployment overseas they shouldn’t have to worry about being scammed or preyed upon by those trying to exploit their service to our country.” Congressman Peters’ amendment passed the House, and comes after he worked on a bipartisan level with Rep. Robert Goodlatte (VA-06), Chair of the Judiciary Committee, and Rep. Steve Chabot (OH-01), Chair of the Small Business Committee, to move these protections forward. Rep. Peters’ floor speech can be seen by clicking HERE or on the image below. The text of his amendment can be read HERE. Video of Scott Fights to Protect Servicemembers from Predatory Loan Sharks ###
02.03.2015	Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) called attention to twelve locations in the 52nd Congressional District where residents who qualify can receive free tax filing assistance. The resources offered through the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program are available to all Americans with less than $52,000 in annual income. Volunteers at each VITA site are IRS-certified and help consumers prepare their basic returns and determine their eligibility for tax credits, including the Earned Income Tax Credit and the Child Tax Credit, which they might not otherwise have known they were qualified to receive. The program also allows consumers to electronically file their returns at no cost. VITA service centers are found across San Diego County. Listed below are the sites in the 52nd district. Click the map above to view VITA sites on Google Maps Pacific Beach Library - 4275 Cass St San Diego, CA 92109 United Way of San Diego – Mobile Disability - 4699 Murphy Canyon Road San Diego, CA 92123 HOC - San Diego Virtual - 1100 Broadway San Diego, CA 92101 Poway Senior Center - 13094 Civic Center Drive Poway, CA 92064 Point Loma Library - 3701 Voltaire St San Diego, CA 92107 North University Community Library - 8820 Judicial Drive San Diego, CA 92122 Rancho Bernardo Senior Service - 16769 Bernardo Center Drive, Suite K San Diego, CA 92128 Thomas Jefferson School of Law - 1155 Island Avenue San Diego, CA 92101 Serra Mesa Library - 9005 Aero Drive San Diego, CA 92123 Chinese Service Center - 5075 Ruffin Road San Diego, CA 92123 North Clairemont Library - 4616 Clairemont Drive San Diego, CA 92117 Mira Mesa Senior Center 8460 Mira Mesa Blvd San Diego, CA 92126 Find the hours of locations and a list of specific services offered at each location here. If constituents have any questions they can also reach out to the San Diego office at (858)455-5550.
01.28.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to recognize Brian Fennessy, Assistant Fire Chief for Emergency Operations at the San Diego Fire-Rescue Department. Chief Fennessy testified at the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s “Rebuilding After the Storm: Lessening Impacts and Speeding Recovery” hearing to provide expertise on preparedness and community resiliency efforts. Watch Rep. Peters’ floor speech HERE or by clicking the image below: Video of Scott recognizes Brian Fennessy, Assistant Fire Chief at the San Diego Fire-Rescue Department Transcript of Rep. Peters’ speech, as delivered: [BEGIN TRANSCRIPT] Mr. Speaker - Today I rise to highlight San Diegan Brian Fennessy, Assistant Fire Chief at the San Diego Fire-Rescue Department, who is here in DC sharing his expertise fighting wildfires so that communities across the country can be better prepared. This morning Chief Fennessy testified before the House Transportation Committee’s Economic Development subcommittee on ways to speed up disaster recovery and save taxpayer dollars by lessening the harm of disasters. In San Diego we learned many lessons from the numerous firestorms of the last decade, including the importance of increasing preparedness and emergency planning, and the need for coordination among various levels of government. As extreme weather becomes more prevalent, sharing information from local experience on what does and doesn’t work will only become more important. So thank you to Chief Fennessy for sharing your experience and thank you to all the brave men and women of the San Diego Fire Department. [END TRANSCRIPT] ###
01.27.2015	Rep. Peters Helps Pass 12 Bipartisan Bills to Hit Human Trafficking WASHINGTON – Over the past two days, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) has helped pass several bipartisan bills aimed at undercutting the practice of human trafficking both here in the United States and internationally. This comes on the heels of local law enforcement agencies announcing a joint task force to attack San Diego’s growing human trafficking problem. “Fighting human trafficking is something that everyone in Congress can agree on and where the United States must take a leadership role internationally,” Rep. Peters said. “Tackling this heinous practice will require action at all levels of government and coordination to make sure that no one is falling through the cracks.” According to federal reports, 14,500 to 17,500 victims are trafficked into the United States annually. The San Ysidro Land Port of Entry, the busiest border crossing in the western hemisphere processes approximately 50,000 vehicles and 25,000 pedestrians daily according to the General Services Administration (GSA). Human trafficking prosecutions in San Diego County have more than tripled over the past five years according to the District Attorney’s office, and the FBI has identified San Diego as one of the top 13 high-intensity child prostitution areas of concern. Twelve anti-human trafficking bills passed the House of Representatives this week: HR 514, HR 515, HR 357, HR 468, HR 469, HR 246, HR 398, HR 460, HR 350, HR 159, HR 181, and HR 285. Last year, Rep. Peters introduced two bills aimed stopping international human trafficking: the ‘Partnering to Abolish Child Trafficking Act (PACT)’ and the ‘End Modern-Day Slavery Act.’ ###
01.22.2015	Rep. Peters Stands Against Attempt to Undermine Women’s Health Choices WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after voting against H.R. 7, which would grossly intrude on women’s healthcare decisions: “As a longtime advocate for a woman’s right to choose and the idea that women and their doctors, not politicians, should make personal health care decisions, I strongly oppose this bill. All women, regardless of income level, deserve equal access to all health care options; this bill limits those choices for many women and families. All women should be able to choose what's best for her health and the well-being of her family. Instead of bringing ideas forward to grow our economy, Speaker Boehner has brought a bill to the floor that is more about political posturing than helping create middle-class jobs or educating our country’s students.” ###
01.20.2015	Rep. Peters Praises President’s Call for Greater Investments in Science, Research, and College Affordability WASHINGTON, D.C. – Tonight, Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after hearing President Obama’s State of the Union address at the U.S. Capitol: “I was encouraged to hear President Obama engaging on issues of importance to San Diego and the country, and calling for bipartisanship on economic growth. Despite the recent good economic news, there are still too many families who are working harder than ever yet are still unable to get ahead. Fair wages and tax breaks for working families are a good first step, but the real answer lies in providing greater opportunities for prosperity for all. “I was pleased to hear the President call for increased investment in medical research, which is of particular importance to economic growth and job creation here in San Diego where local companies like Vertex Pharmaceuticals are creating cutting-edge therapies and the jobs of the future.” The President highlighted Vertex in tonight’s address for their work to find a cure for cystic fibrosis. Peters recently visited Vertex, which is located in the 52nd Congressional District. Peters continued, “The President’s focus on expanding access to college was also very welcome, not just to families struggling to save enough to send their kids to college, but also to thousands of San Diego companies who are reliant on an educated workforce. Our companies can’t grow and prosper without them.” Rep. Peters also commented on the President’s tax proposals. “It is also abundantly clear to me that our current tax system is broken and we need comprehensive reform to make it simpler, fairer, and to provide the middle class with needed relief – but we must have more than just tax reform. Economic growth is the real centerpiece for getting more money into the pockets of middle class families, and that will remain at the center of my agenda. “I was also glad to hear the President continue his call for action on climate, through building up community resiliency in the face of extreme weather and by addressing the harmful emissions that are leading directly to climate change,” Peters said. For the speech, Congressman Peters joined with his colleague from Arizona Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema to bring Dr. Howard and Jean Somers to raise awareness on the tragic problem of veteran suicide. “The Somers have been fiercely committed to making reforms at the VA that will save lives, even after that system failed them and their son. I was honored to join with my friend Congresswoman Sinema to bring the Somers to the State of the Union,” Peters said. “As we work to end the scourge of veteran suicide we will need aggressive partners like the Somers to help push reform forward.” The Somers reside in Coronado, and have been advocates for reforming the Department of Veterans Affairs since losing their son, an Army veteran who suffered from Post-Traumatic Stress (PTS), to suicide in 2013. ###
01.16.2015	Reps. Peters, Sinema to Host at State of the Union San Diego Veterans’ Advocates who Lost Son to Suicide SAN DIEGO, CA – Today, on the heels of his vote for the “Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans (SAV) Act ,” U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) announced that he is joining with Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09) to bring Howard and Jean Somers to next week’s State of the Union address to raise awareness on the tragic problem of veteran suicide. “The Somers have been fiercely committed to making reforms at the VA that will save lives, even after that system failed them and their son. I am honored to join with my friend Congresswoman Sinema to bring the Somers to the State of the Union,” Rep. Peters said. “As we work to end the scourge of veteran suicide we will need aggressive partners like the Somers to help push reform forward. I will continue calling on President Obama, and leaders at the Pentagon, to be hyper-focused on reversing the crisis of veteran suicide at this time where we’re losing more warfighters to suicide than battle.” The Somers reside in Coronado and their son, Daniel, lived in Phoenix. Sgt. Daniel Somers suffered from Post-Traumatic Stress (PTS) after serving in Operation Iraqi Freedom and tragically committed suicide in June 2013. Since then, the Somers have been tireless advocates for the need to fix the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) system, preparing a twenty-five page report with recommendations based on their experience and research. They were invited to testify before, and present their report to, the House Committee on Veterans Affairs in July, 2014. Subsequently, Congress passed the H.R. 3230, the bipartisan “Veterans’ Access to Care through Choice, Accountability, and Transparency Act,” which the President signed into law on August 7, 2014. H.R. 203, the “Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans (SAV) Act,” establishes a pilot program to help veterans access mental health services in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), requires the VA to set up a single website portal for mental health services, and authorizes the VA to take actions to increase retention of mental health staff.
01.14.2015	Rep. Peters’ Denounces GOP’s Hyper-Partisan Homeland Security Bill; Calls for Comprehensive Immigration Reform WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) released the following statement after voting against the House Republican’s political ploy in connection with funding the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). “Instead of proceeding with a straightforward, bipartisan bill that ensures our border is secured and our immigration laws are enforced, Republicans added strictly partisan amendments that amount to blanket deportations that will force families back into the shadows. We should pass a DHS funding bill that is free from these ideological riders and then work toward bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform similar to what passed the Senate in 2013 with 68 votes. “As I did repeatedly during my first term, I again call on Speaker John Boehner to stand up to the extreme wing of his party. This could have been avoided had he allowed a vote on last session’s bipartisan and comprehensive immigration reform package that would have secured our borders, worked to prevent terrorism, boosted our economy, created jobs, and reduced our national debt. Americans still overwhelmingly support it, as do many of my Republican colleagues. I hope that he will allow such a vote in this Congress.” ###
01.13.2015	Rep. Peters Brings #SDinDC Focus to White House Export Summit WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) joined San Diego business leaders at a summit on International Trade hosted by the White House Business Council and Business Forward. The forum focused on opportunities for American companies to expand their exports and for the administration to hear perspectives from successful businesses across the country. “The more we encourage trade and exporting of San Diego-made products and technology, the more jobs we create for San Diegans,” Rep. Peters said. “That’s why I worked with Business Forward and the White House to bring these companies and business leaders together – to learn more about what the federal government can do to help companies grow and prosper, and for the Administration to hear directly from companies who are exporting products every day.” Eight companies from San Diego County, including three from the 52nd District, were present at the event: WD-40 Company: Garry Ridge, President and CEO (CA-52) Cange International, Inc.: Kimberly Benson, Vice President (CA-52) Quantum Design International: David Schultz, CFO (CA-52) Applied Membranes, Inc.: Wayne Faulkner, Director of International Sales (CA-49) Althea: Magda Marquet, Co-Founder and Co-Chair (CA-49) Pasha Automotive Services: John Pasha, Senior Vice President (CA-51) Julian Hard Cider: Paul Thomas, President and Founder (CA-50) Grupo Logistics: Allen Vigil, Director of International Business Development (CA-51) ###
01.13.2015	Rep. Peters Responds to Creation of House Democrats’ New Policy & Communications Committee WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Scott Peters released the following statement on the announcement of the creation of House Democrats' new Policy & Communications Committee: “I am encouraged by the formation of this new group and hope it is a first step in addressing calls for change. The lessons learned in November 2014 require Democrats to make an honest assessment of ways we can improve our message. As Democrats, we are right on many issues important to Americans: education, the environment, equality. And our message of economic fairness is right, too, but we must move beyond economic fairness and now take the lead on creating an agenda for economic growth and a brighter future for our children and grandchildren. “Democrats need to have a real plan that creates economic opportunities for the millions of hardworking middle class men and women who are playing by the rules, and working harder than ever, but continue to feel like they can’t get ahead. And we need a plan for our young people entering the workforce unsure about their futures, worried about being able to afford college and whether there will be a job for them when they graduate. If we don’t figure out how to successfully share this message we will lose touch with the core of the Democratic Party and the desires of everyday Americans.” ###
01.08.2015	Rep. Scott Peters Fights to Repeal Medical Device Tax Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) joined a bipartisan group of colleagues to call for repeal of the Medical Device Tax, an excise tax included in the Affordable Care Act (ACA) which unfairly penalizes innovative job-creators. The San Diego region’s medical device industry comprises 240 companies and employs more than 11,000 workers. “At a time when the main concern for majority of Americans is job creation, Congress needs to be supporting the growth of businesses that make their products in America and employ American workers,” Rep. Peters said. “San Diego’s and America’s economic future depends on the success of our innovators. Congress needs to support them by repealing this tax.” “As an advocate for innovation companies, CONNECT applauds the current effort to repeal the Medical Device Excise Tax which passed as part of the Affordable Care Act,” said Greg McKee, CEO of CONNECT. “The tax is inequitable, hitting small and medium sized companies much harder than larger companies that can absorb the costs, thereby inhibiting innovation and growth. The goal of healthcare reform was to reduce costs while improving patient care. Younger medical device companies are answering this call by working tirelessly to develop new treatments and techniques that both improve healthcare and reduce costs. We must do all we can to encourage and promote research, development, and investment in innovation because that is where the keys to life changing discoveries lie. The repeal of the medical device tax is a move in the right direction.” ###
01.07.2015	Rep. Peters Helps Pass Bill to Spur Hiring of Veterans WASHINGTON, D.C. – Late yesterday, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) helped pass H.R. 22, the ‘Hire More Heroes Act,’ in the House of Representatives. The bill exempts veterans, reservists, and others who receive healthcare benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) or TRICARE from being counted toward the employer mandate under the Affordable Care Act. “I am humbled by the amount of support shown by the new Congress for my legislation to help businesses hire more of our nation’s veterans,” said Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL-13) who introduced the bill. “The ‘Hire More Heroes Act’ is a great example of the type of bipartisan, jobs legislation that we will continue to advance on behalf of the American people. It is my hope that this legislation will receive swift action in the Senate and by the President so we can put an end to the gridlock in Washington and put our nation on solid footing for a bright future.” “I’m proud to support this bipartisan legislation that will speed up the hiring of veterans across the country; they have served and protected our country and can continue to use their leadership experience as civilians,” Rep. Scott Peters said. “This comes as a complement to the Military Transition Support Project’s zero8hundred program I helped start. Despite last year’s reforms to the Department of Veterans Affairs, there is still a lot left to do as we reform the VA and improve services for veterans and their families.” ###
01.06.2015	Congressman Scott Peters Issues New Year’s Resolutions for 114th Congress WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Scott Peters (CA-52) issued a list of New Year’s Resolutions for the 114th Congress, after being sworn in by Speaker John Boehner: “Americans are exasperated by the lack of progress and productivity from Congress, and rightly so,” said Rep. Peters after being sworn in to his second term. “Today, I issue this list of New Year’s Resolutions for the 114th Congress as a call to action, and a reminder to us all that we’ve been granted a great and serious honor by the American people. We owe them more policy and less politics, and our steadfast commitment to giving them a Congress they can be proud of, and the representation they deserve.” “I am honored to serve and look forward to a more productive 114th Congress.” Rep. Peters’ resolutions for the new Congress are listed below, and can be accessed in more detail HERE: Foster San Diego’s Innovation Economy to Create Jobs Reform Congress and Campaigns to Increase Efficiency, Transparency Make College Affordable for the Middle Class Again Support our Military and Keep Our Promises to Veterans Funding to Fight Wildfires Tax Reform Comprehensive Action on Immigration Aggressive Action to Curb Climate Change Equal Pay for Equal Work Infrastructure for the Future ###
