02.05.2019	WASHINGTON – Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement on President Trump’s State of the Union address: “President Trump’s address demonstrated why the people of Texas’ 4th District chose a leader for our country that prioritizes the American people over big government and freedom over burdensome regulations. In just two years, the Trump administration has delivered huge wins for our country that have left folks with more money in their pockets and less government intrusion in their lives. I strongly support the president’s call to choose American greatness over partisan political games, as we look to build upon the progress we’ve made so far and unlock the promise of America’s future.” ###
01.30.2019	Republican leadership in the U.S. House of Representatives today announced the appointment of Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) to serve on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI). “Protecting the safety and security of our fellow citizens is the preeminent function of the Federal government. My appointment to HPSCI will allow me to bring my background as a former U.S. Attorney and federal terrorism prosecutor to oversight that encompasses the broader intelligence community of our U.S. government and military,” Ratcliffe said. “I’m committed to working on the American people’s behalf to ensure the rule of law is upheld and that justice is properly served across our entire government – especially when it comes to the most sensitive matters of our national security. I am grateful to Minority Leader McCarthy for his confidence in giving me the opportunity to serve in this vital role, and I’m ready to get to work immediately.” HPSCI was created in 1977 and is tasked with overseeing the U.S. Intelligence Community and the Military Intelligence Program. The Committee authors annual legislation to authorize funding for these programs and conducts ongoing congressional investigations pertaining to related national intelligence matters. In addition to HPSCI, Ratcliffe will continue serving on the House Judiciary Committee as the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security; and as a member of the Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet. He will also continue serving on the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Protection where he advanced bills in support of the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) critical cybersecurity mission as the former chairman; on the Subcommittee on Transportation and Maritime Security; and on the House Ethics Committee. ###
01.17.2019	Rep. John Ratcliffe’s Congressional Student Leadership Program (CSLP) kicked off yesterday for high school sophomores and juniors across Texas’ 4th District for the 2018-2019 school year. This marks the third year of the program, which has expanded to include four physical meeting locations in Rockwall, Mount Pleasant, Texarkana and Sherman. The participants will meet three more times throughout the remainder of the school year for sessions that will include educational lectures, research of legislative issues and interactive group projects. They will receive a certificate upon successful completion of the program. “I’m grateful that we have another great group of students joining us for the Congressional Student Leadership Program this year. Each participant has a strong determination to go above and beyond to become civically involved in their community, and I’m glad for the opportunity we have to help them do just that,” Ratcliffe said. CSLP students meet in Rockwall: Jackie Alexander – Boles High School, Alexis Morgan – Commerce High School, Marissa Welch – Cooper High School, Keagan Rios – Greenville High School, Bayleigh Martin – Rockwall-Heath High School, Cooper Neill – Rockwall-Heath High School, Kyle Blemings – Rockwall-Heath High School, Avery Lovell – Rockwall-Heath High School, and Mariam Tran – Sulphur Springs High School CSLP students meet in Mount Pleasant: Nathan Scolaro – Chapel Hill High School, Chance Thornton – Cooper High School, Ryan Sharp – Mount Pleasant High School, Faith Logan – Mount Pleasant High School, Caroline Rose – Mount Pleasant High School, Taryn Thurman – Mount Pleasant High School, Dylan Anzaone – Ore City High School, Tanner Ridens – Ore City High School, Mason Webb – Ore City High School, Becky Wisdom – Ore City High School, Evan Purviance – Rivercrest High School, John Caviness – Union Grove High School CSLP students meet in Texarkana: Meagan Reiter – Hooks High School, Reagan Reiter – Hooks High School, Alyssa Hawley-Twite – Maud High School, Kindra Smith – Maud High School, Payton Windham – Maud High School, Crayton Bradford – Redwater High School, Hollan Borowitz – Texas High School, Reed Henry Russell – Texas High School, Jackson Tye – Texas High School CLSP students meet in Sherman: Kathy Porter – Blue Ridge High School, Mason Wiley – Denison High School, Penn Seiberling – Gunter High School, Alexa Reichert – Gunter High School, Joshua Magers – Gunter High School, Kennon Magers – Gunter High School, Jose Menjivar – Sherman High School, Shelby Farmer – Sherman High School, Logan Lankford – Wolfe City High School, Meredith Sheets – Wolfe City High School More information about the 2018-2019 CSLP is available at Ratcliffe.house.gov/congressional-student-leadership-program. ###
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON – Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas), Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) and Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) today introduced the Lake Fannin Recreation Area Conveyance Act to reduce the federal estate in Texas and convey 2,025 acres to Fannin County for public recreation purposes. “I’m grateful for the progress we’ve made so far in our efforts to return more than 2,000 acres of Lake Fannin back to local control,” said Rep. Ratcliffe. “As we move closer toward the finish line, I’m committed to continuing this fight along with Senators Cornyn and Cruz, so we can ensure Lake Fannin will continue offering rich memories for folks in the local community and those who visit this historic site in our state.” “This bill will bring us one step closer to restoring local control over the Lake Fannin recreation area to the folks who know it best,” said Sen. Cornyn. “I look forward to working with Senator Cruz, Congressman Ratcliffe, and all my colleagues to reduce the federal estate and allow the residents of Fannin County to care for the natural land in their region.” “I am proud to work with Sen. Cornyn and Rep. Ratcliffe on this important issue,” Sen. Cruz said. “The residents of Fannin County are much more effective caretakers and stewards of their land than the federal government. I believe Texans will be well served by reducing the federal estate and giving local officials control over thousands of acres of grassland.” ###
01.09.2019	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) released the following statement on President Trump’s national address about securing the Southern Border: “I strongly support President Trump’s call for Democrats to stop playing politics with America's safety by refusing to fund border security. This is the sole reason our federal government remains shut down. It’s time to end this game and address the crisis at our Southern Border. We must equip our law enforcement professionals and border agents with the resources they've requested – including a physical barrier – so they can properly perform their mission to protect us from the criminal gangs, drug smugglers and human traffickers seeping into our country.” ###
12.21.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) released the following statement on his vote Thursday for legislation that included $5.7 billion in funding for the wall along the U.S.-Mexico border: “I was proud to vote for the passage of $5.7 billion to fund the wall along our Southern Border, so we can stop the flow of dangerous criminals, terrorists, human traffickers and drug traffickers into our country. After all, if the federal government is serious about protecting the American people, securing the sovereignty and integrity of our territorial borders is not optional – it’s mandatory. I’m grateful for President Trump’s strong support of our efforts to close our porous borders through the construction of a border wall, and I will continue fighting for strong border security and interior enforcement measures that prioritize the safety of our citizens.” ###
12.21.2018	WASHINGTON – Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) released the following statement on President Trump’s signing of the 21st Century Integrated Digital Experience Act (IDEA) (H.R. 5759) that he co-led with and Rep. Ro Khanna (D-Calif.) and Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio): “President Trump’s signing of the 21st Century IDEA will initiate much-needed improvements to the digital services offered by our federal government. I’m grateful for the hard work of Rep. Khanna and Sen. Portman to ensure this important legislation was signed into law, so we can better serve the American people while saving tax payer dollars. I look forward to seeing the positive impact of our enhanced ability to ensure folks get the timely, cost-effective assistance they deserve thanks to the reforms included in this law.” The 21st Century IDEA aims to improve citizens’ interaction with the federal government online by digitizing government processes and establishing minimum standards for federal websites, including mobile-friendly interfaces in compliance with the latest security protocols. Ratcliffe and Khanna co-introduced the 21st Century IDEA in May, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously in November. The Senate companion bill (S. 3050) was introduced by Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio) in June. ###
12.20.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) released the following statement today praising the Trump administration’s actions against China’s state-sponsored cyber espionage: “I support the Trump administration’s strong condemnation of China’s online economic espionage and indictment of Beijing-linked hackers. This makes it clear that we will not tolerate China’s blatant disregard of their pledge to cease their harmful cyber-enabled theft from the United States. Nation-states that steal from, manipulate or cheat us using cyber-enabled means should be warned that they will be held accountable for their actions. Digital attacks pose a growing threat to our national security, and they must be punished. I will continue backing efforts that harden our defenses, call out bad actors and bring criminal charges against those who seek to do us harm.” ###
12.12.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) and Rep. Ro Khanna (D-Calif.) released the following statement on Senate passage of the 21st Century Integrated Digital Experience Act (IDEA) (H.R. 5759): “The federal government is supposed to be in the business of serving the American people – and we’ve got major room for improvement when it comes to the services we provide online. The 21st Century IDEA will help bring us up to speed with the vast majority of the private sector by allowing us to meet the public’s needs with a few simple clicks online rather than drawn out phone calls or in-person visits with agency representatives. We’ve been grateful for the strong bipartisan support this legislation has received from our House and Senate colleagues, and we’re looking forward to its swift signature into law.” The 21st Century IDEA aims to improve citizens’ interaction with the federal government online by digitizing government processes and establishing minimum standards for federal websites, including mobile-friendly interfaces in compliance with the latest security protocols. Ratcliffe and Khanna co-introduced the 21st Century IDEA in May, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously in November. The Senate companion bill (S. 3050) was introduced by Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio) in June. ###
12.07.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) announced today a team of Rockwall-Heath High School students as the winners of the 2018 Congressional App Challenge for Texas’ 4th District. The winning team included Mikey Bess, Justin Corbin and Kyle Jackson, who worked together to create an app called “Pixel Buster.” “Today’s job market includes a growing number of jobs that require digital skill sets, and it’s important to encourage students’ participation in programs like the Congressional App Challenge that help them build and refine their abilities in this area,” Ratcliffe said. “Pixel Buster is a truly impressive game demo in itself, and even more so because it was created by folks at such a young age. I’d like to congratulate Mikey, Justin and Kyle for being selected as this year’s winners for the 4th District of Texas.” Pixel Buster is a game based on a futuristic cyber-punk world that intended to entertain a broad audience. The main player must attempt to escape from enemies located in an underground metro, including a skater boy who throws graffiti and attempts to run away. The students created the pixel art in Adobe Photoshop and completed the programming using Blueprints Visual Scripting system in Unreal Engine, which is a C++ gameplay scripting system. The Congressional App Challenge is a prestigious national competition that engages students’ creativity and encourages their participation in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education fields. High school students in each congressional district across the country are invited to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. ###
10.11.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe’s (R-Texas) legislation to fight crime using digital evidence led to the prosecution of dozens of child exploitation cases throughout Northeast Texas since it was signed into law by President Donald Trump last year. “I’m incredibly grateful that my new law allows law enforcement officers in Northeast Texas to better leverage digital avenues to get dangerous child sex offenders off the streets,” Ratcliffe said. “Whether it’s a cell phone call that was made, or a geolocation that was sent – we’ve got many emerging ways to pinpoint predators in our communities. It’s critical that our state and local police know what digital evidence to look for and how to find it, so we can prosecute those who commit sickening crimes against the most vulnerable in our society.” The Strengthening State and Local Cyber Crime Fighting Act (P.L. 115-76) equips state and local law enforcement officers to properly identify and collect evidence needed to prosecute an increasing number of cases involving digital footprints. The law enables officers from across the country to learn about the collection of cyber evidence from Secret Service agents at the National Computer Forensics Institute (NCFI) in Hoover, Ala. Chief Investigator Corley Weatherford of Hopkins County Sheriff’s Office recently met with Ratcliffe’s district staff to discuss the impact of his law on the Northeast Texas community. He is a graduate of multiple classes at the NCFI that focused on computer forensics and mobile device examination, which have helped him solve child exploitation crimes in coordination with the North Texas Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) Task Force. On top of the exceptional training, Weatherford said the NCFI provided him with top-of-the line equipment to bring back to his local law enforcement agency, which allows him to provide forensic services to Northeast Texas. This training and equipment is now used in a growing number of investigations in the region. “Forensics were once looked at as something that is reserved for only the highest priority cases,” he said. “Today most adults and many children have smartphones with them daily. These mobile devices find their way into many investigations other than traditional computer crimes. “A mobile device may be extremely valuable evidence in practically any case if one considers the possibility of location data, call logs, text or chat conversations, web history, and many other artifacts that can be found on these devices.” Due to the uptick in cases involving cyber forensics information, cell phones and other electronic devices, Weatherford said his NCFI training has played a critical role in his work on dozens of child exploitation cases that led to prosecution on the state and federal level. This included the conviction of a Cumby school teacher with 100 child victims, and a conviction in a Sulphur Springs case involving a local pastor for child pornography. As the former U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Texas, Ratcliffe’s prosecution and conviction of a Nacogdoches, Texas sheriff’s deputy for child sex crimes gained statewide acclamation. This work encouraged him to introduce the Strengthening Children’s Safety Act of 2017 (H.R. 1842), which passed in the U.S. House of Representatives last year to boost children’s safety by closing loopholes in the federal laws that punish sex offenders. Ratcliffe plans to continue his fight against child exploitation in the upcoming year. “The horrific child exploitation crimes I prosecuted during my time as U.S. attorney still haunt me. They’re what spurred me to prioritize legislative efforts in Congress that focus on protecting children, and I won’t give up on this important fight.” ###
10.02.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) recognized Angela and Samuel Coston of Texarkana, Texas last week as the 2018 Angels in Adoption honorees for Texas’ 4th District. The Angels in Adoption program provides an annual opportunity for U.S. Representatives to honor families in their home district who change lives through dedication to adoption or foster care. The Costons were selected for this honor for founding a foster care ministry in Texarkana called “For the Sake of One,” which serves foster children, foster parents and case workers. “I’m incredibly inspired by the Costons’ dedication to helping foster families and their case workers in the Texarkana area, and I’m humbled for the opportunity to recognize them as this year’s Angels in Adoption honorees for the 4th District of Texas,” Ratcliffe said. “On top of taking children into their own home, the Costons’ ministry has brought together many kind-hearted individuals and organizations in the community to help improve the lives of very deserving young people. I’m looking forward to the ongoing positive impact they will have in the years to come.” The Costons were inspired to start their foster care ministry based on their own experience as foster parents. Their services aim to help encourage foster families through the difficulties of fostering children. They include: providing clothing to agencies tasked with placing children in foster homes, adopting caseworkers to support in their efforts, mentoring foster children’s biological parents, recruiting foster families, supporting current foster families, providing a location for supervised visitation, and coordinating churches and nonprofit groups to provide Christmas parties, gifts and birthday celebrations for children in foster care. In addition to being congratulated personally by Ratcliffe for their efforts on behalf of foster children in Texarkana, the Costons were recognized by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI) at an Angel in Adoption awards ceremony in Washington, D.C. ###
09.28.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) voted today for the passage of the Protecting Family and Small Business Tax Cuts Act of 2018 (H.R. 6760) in the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill safeguards the policies in the Tax Cuts and Job Act signed by President Trump last year, which will help unleash further economic development, wage growth and tax savings for middle class families and small businesses in Northeast Texas. “While it’s hard to believe that democrats are denying that our country’s economic boom is a result of tax cuts, it’s even harder to believe that some have proposed stripping away our fairer, simpler tax code from the middle-class families and small business owners who benefit from it the most,” Ratcliffe said. “I was proud to vote for new legislation that will protect tax cuts for Northeast Texans. When I visit places like 903 Brewers in Grayson County, or Cypress Bank in Camp County – business owners and employees tell me what a positive impact the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is having. It’s my job to support policies that will ensure this success continues.” By locking in tax cuts for the middle-class and small businesses, H.R. 6760 will create 1.5 million new jobs across the country and build wage growth beyond last year’s average $3,500 increase in Texas’ 4th District. H.R. 6760 also ensures that key family-friendly tax provisions in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act are preserved for Northeast Texans. It maintains lower tax rates for families, a doubled Child Tax Credit, a new Paid Family Leave Tax Credit, a doubled exemption from the Death Tax, and it eliminates the Alternative Minimum Tax for 96 percent of those who paid it last year. The bill additionally supports small businesses by cementing a 20-percent deduction for pass-through business income, which has already allowed small businesses in Texas’ 4th District to invest thousands more into business development and employee wages since the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was signed into law. Click here for more info on the tax cut protection legislation recently voted for by Ratcliffe. ###
09.24.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) invited high school sophomores and juniors in Texas’ 4th District today to apply for the 2018-2019 Congressional Student Leadership Program (CSLP). This marks the third year of the program. “I launched the CSLP to give young folks an opportunity to learn about the role of the federal government and functions of a congressional office in an interactive setting. The program allows them to engage face-to-face with other students who are interested in learning about politics and hearing from their elected officials firsthand,” Ratcliffe said. “I’ve been highly impressed with the CSLP participants in previous years, and I have no doubt we’ll have another group of talented young folks join us this school year.” Participants are selected based on their academic achievement, extracurricular involvement and demonstration of leadership. Prospective students must apply by Nov. 16 and will be notified of acceptance by Dec. 7. Applications and more information about the 2018-2019 CSLP are available at Ratcliffe.house.gov/congressional-student-leadership-program. ###
09.21.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement on the release of the Trump administration’s National Cyber Strategy: “I commend the Trump administration’s strong commitment to improving the cyber posture of our nation. The National Cyber Strategy clearly outlines the administration’s plan – both offensive and defensive – to boost the security of our digital borders and promote the prosperity of our digital economy. “I look forward to leading the cyber subcommittee’s collaboration with the administration to critically examine the key principles of the National Cyber Strategy. We must define DHS’ specific role in its implementation, so we can ensure a robust approach is utilized to most effectively address our top cyber priorities both foreign and domestic.” Ratcliffe chairs the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Protection where he conducts rigorous oversight of the administration’s cybersecurity efforts. ###
09.18.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe’s (R-Texas) Advancing Cybersecurity Diagnostics and Mitigation Act was introduced today by Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) in the U.S. Senate. The legislation would codify the Cybersecurity Diagnostics Mitigation (CDM) program at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to help federal agencies update and improve their cyber posture. Ratcliffe’s version of the bill (H.R. 6443) passed the U.S. House of Representatives last month. “Codifying the CDM program at DHS will help ensure its ongoing success and improvement as an indispensable cybersecurity tool for protecting our federal networks,” Ratcliffe said. “I’m grateful for Sen. Cornyn’s leadership in the Senate to advance this important legislation that will help ensure our national cybersecurity efforts keep pace with the ever-evolving cyber threat landscape.” “Cyber-attacks are escalating at an alarming rate, making it vital that our federal agencies have access to programs and tools to help mitigate these risks,” Cornyn said. “This legislation would help ensure the Department of Homeland Security can continue to rely on and evolve the CDM program to understand and defend against the cyber threats before them.” Background: The Continuous Diagnostics and Mitigation (CDM) Program is run through the Department of Homeland Security (DHS)’s National Protection and Programs Directorate and is meant to provide cyber capabilities to continuously monitor the networks of federal agencies. This bill would: Codify the work of the CDM program to date; Require the Secretary to make CDM capabilities available and develop policies for reporting cyber risks and incidents based upon data collected under CDM; Direct the Secretary to deploy new CDM technologies to continuously evolve the program; And require DHS to develop a strategy to ensure the program continues to adjust to the cyber threat landscape. ###
09.04.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe’s (R-Texas) bill to codify the continuous diagnostics and mitigation (CDM) program at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) passed the U.S. House of Representatives today without opposition. The Advancing Cybersecurity Diagnostics and Mitigation Act (H.R. 6443) will require development of procedures for reporting systemic cybersecurity risks, the regular deployment of new technologies and a strategy to ensure ongoing improvements to the program. “The CDM program has proven to be an indispensable tool for DHS and NPPD in identifying and defending against cyber threats to our federal networks. Codification will help promote its ongoing success and improvement, so we can ensure our federal network protection efforts keep pace with the ever-evolving cyber threat landscape,” Ratcliffe said. “I’m grateful for the strong, bipartisan support of my House colleagues in passing my CDM codification bill today, and I’m hopeful the Senate will act swiftly to advance this important measure on behalf of our national security.” Ratcliffe chairs the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Protection where he’s conducted rigorous oversight of the CDM program. ###
08.16.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) congratulated Joel Abraham, Jestina George, Lane Pounds and Jamie Warren today for their successful completion of congressional internships in his Rockwall district office this summer. “I’d like to thank Joel, Jestina, Lane, and Jamie for their hard work in my Rockwall district office this summer. Serving 700,000 people across 18 counties in Northeast Texas wouldn’t be possible if it wasn’t for the selfless contributions from young folks like them who have such an inspiring heart for civil service,” Ratcliffe said. Joel Abraham Rep. John Ratcliffe and Joel Abraham Abraham graduated from North Garland High School in 2014, and he graduated from the University of Texas at Arlington in 2017 with a degree in economics. He is pursuing a law degree at the University of Oklahoma College of Law. Abraham was a former political advisor at Pro-Life Mavericks and currently volunteers at his local church. Abraham said he was surprised by the amount of casework that Ratcliffe’s office handled, and he was inspired to see the dedication that the district staff displayed in assisting each constituent – however large or small their issue was. “I am grateful to have had the opportunity to intern at Congressman John Ratcliffe’s district office. It was an amazing opportunity to assist the staff in their work for the constituents of the 4th District of Texas. I now have a stronger admiration for public service,” Abraham said. Jestina George Rep. John Ratcliffe and Jestina George George graduated from Rockwall High School in 2017. She is a sophomore at the University of Texas at Dallas studying computer science. George is very involved at her church, where she sings on the worship team and assists with the children’s ministry. George said she was thankful to see how dedicated Ratcliffe is to representing and serving his constituents. She noted that his passion for cybersecurity was inspiring. “This internship has opened my eyes to many issues that our country currently faces. I learned that every person has a voice, each opinion matters, and anyone has the ability to combat our nation’s issues. After graduation, I would like to serve our country through working in the cybersecurity field,” George said. Lane Pounds Rep. John Ratcliffe and Lane Pounds Pounds graduated from Poetry Community Christian School in 2016. He is a junior at Southern Methodist University, studying history. Pounds enjoys playing basketball, reading, and said he is the biggest New York Giants fan in Texas. Pounds said he was very surprised to see how involved Ratcliffe’s district office was with the constituents of the 4th District of Texas, and said he enjoyed assisting Ratcliffe’s district staff in serving constituents on a daily basis. “I am very grateful to have had the opportunity to work for Congressman Ratcliffe’s office. I learned many valuable lessons that will help me moving forward,” Pounds said. Jamie Warren Rep. John Ratcliffe and Jamie Warren Warren graduated from Rockwall-Heath High School in 2017. He is a sophomore at Trinity University, studying business analytics and management. Warren enjoys varsity swimming, attending campus church organizations, and is involved with the rotary club. Warren said his internship greatly sharpened his interpersonal and communication skills through interaction with constituents who had radically different viewpoints, personalities and behaviors. “I am incredibly thankful for my experience interning this summer in Congressman Ratcliffe’s district office. Now, more than ever, I am truly comfortable speaking to individuals about any range of topics. I also understand that one must take action in order for change to occur and progress to be made in this country,” Warren said. ###
08.10.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) congratulated Robert Tipps, Zachary Belew and Chance Farmer today for their successful completion of a congressional internship in his Sherman district office this summer. “I’d like to thank Robert, Zachary and Chance for their hard work in my Sherman district office this summer. Serving 700,000 people across 18 counties in Northeast Texas wouldn’t be possible if it wasn’t for the selfless contributions from young folks like them who have such an inspiring heart for civil service,” Ratcliffe said. Robert Tipps Robert Tipps and Rep. John RatcliffeRobert Tipps and Rep. John Ratcliffe Tipps graduated from Frisco Centennial High School in 2014. He is a senior at Texas A&M University-Commerce studying political science. He is involved in College Republicans, the Zeta Gamma Chapter of the Pi Sigma Alpha Political Science Honor Society and is a Model Arab League Delegate. In his free time, he enjoys singing and hosting karaoke. Tipps said he was grateful for the opportunity to learn about the research that goes into writing memos on legislation, as well as engaging with constituents about the work being done in Washington, D.C. and in the district on their behalf. “Although the length of the internship was only through the summer, the experience was enlightening and enjoyable thanks to the district staff: Jason, Jamie, and Michele, who were always available to help,” Tipps said. “I hope that someday I am able to work alongside the great people I’ve worked with in the office. Thank you for this amazing opportunity to be a part of your office for the summer.” Zachary Belew Zachary Belew and Rep. John Ratcliffe Belew graduated from Grapevine Colleyville ISD in 2016. He is a sophomore at the University of Texas at Austin studying government. He is involved in College Republicans at Texas and also interned with the Republican Party of Texas at Austin. Belew said his internship in Ratcliffe’s office taught him how the federal government works on a day-to-day basis to serve the people of the country, and how congressional staff interacts with local, county and state officials in a coordinated effort for an efficient government. “From day one it has been such a positive experience and has given me valuable insights as to the inner workings of the federal government,” Belew said. Chance Farmer Rep. John Ratcliffe and Chance Farmer Farmer graduated from Pottsboro High School in 2014. He is a senior at the University of North Texas studying communications with a minor in public administration. He is involved in Beta Upsilon Chi and is the vice president of finance and administration for IFC Order of Omega. He also serves as the assistant director of Ring Programming for the Student Alumni Ambassadors, as the director of Scholarship and Achievement for the Greek Community Board and on the SGA Executive Board. Farmer said his internship taught him about the daily operations of the government, specifically within a district office, and about how to research federal law. “I was surprised most by how much the district offices truly do for the constituents and how much the congressman does for the district on a daily basis,” Famer said. Despite only recently becoming interested in politics, Farmer said he plans to work in government relations and potentially run for office. ###
08.06.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) congratulated Harrison Benefield, William Humphrey, and Mayten Lumpkin today for their successful completion of a congressional internship in his Texarkana district office this summer. “I’d like to thank Harrison, William and Mayten for their hard work in my Texarkana district office this summer. Serving 700,000 people across 18 counties in Northeast Texas wouldn’t be possible if it wasn’t for the selfless contributions from young folks like them who have such an inspiring heart for civil service,” Ratcliffe said. William Humphrey, Rep. John Ratcliffe, Harrison Benefield Harrison Benefield Benefield graduated from Pleasant Grove High School in 2016. He is a senior at University of Arkansas, pursuing a degree in communication studies. Benefield enjoys playing pick-up basketball, tennis and reading. Benefield said he was thankful his internship taught him how the federal government operates on a day to day basis, and how Congress works to resolve real-world issues. “It was a very eye-opening experience. Many of the issues I heard about, I never knew existed. The work I did greatly strengthened my research skills and communication skills,” Benefield said. William Humphrey Humphrey graduated from Pleasant Grove High School in 2017. He is a sophomore at Texas A&M University, studying political science. Humphrey works at Chipotle and leads a small group Bible study at his church. Humphrey said he enjoyed learning how congressional offices function, and how district offices work in conjunction with the Washington D.C. office to serve the constituents of Northeast Texas. “Seeing how much this office cares about its constituents really opened my eyes as to what politics really should be about – it should be about serving the people,” Humphrey said. Mayten Lumpkin Lumpkin graduated from Texas High School in 2017. He is a sophomore at the University of North Texas, studying economics. Lumpkin was in a diving accident in 2016 that left him in a wheelchair, but he loves spending time with friends and playing with his dog. Lumpkin said his internship was a wonderful experience, and that he was grateful to witness, first-hand, the work being done for the constituents in the 4th District of Texas. “I learned that the work being done here is very valuable, and it is for the people of our district,” Lumpkin said. ###
07.27.2018	Reps. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) and Bruce Westerman (R-Ark.) advocated this week for the Red River Army Depot’s (RRAD) ongoing importance in support of our nation’s warfighters. The lawmakers pushed General Gustave F. Perna, Army Materiel Command (AMC), to provide an update on whether RRAD will be chosen to service the Armored Multi-Purpose Vehicle (AMPV) as the Depot Source of Repair (DSOR). In a letter to General Perna, they said they supported RRAD’s selection for the DSOR because it offers the technical expertise, dedicated personnel, industry relationships, and facility readiness required to successfully service the AMPV. “For more than 75 years, the dedicated men and women at the Depot have remained committed to providing the very best military equipment to our nation’s warfighters. Their history of award-winning excellence makes me confident the Depot is the very best choice to service the AMPV, and I look forward to a swift decision on this matter,” Ratcliffe said. “The men and women of the Red River Army Depot have the skill, dedication, and professionalism which make the depot the ideal location for servicing the AMPV. I look forward to a swift decision that will keep the citizens of the Texarkana region serving our armed forces for years to come,” Westerman said. Click here to view the full letter sent to General Perna in support of RRAD, which included Reps. Mike Johnson (R-La.) and Markwayne Mullin (R-Okla.) as cosigners. ###
07.26.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) voted today for the final passage of the 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) in the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill contains $708.1 billion to boost military readiness and rebuilding efforts, combat global terrorism and enact the largest military pay raise in nine years. As a member of the 2019 NDAA Conference Committee, Ratcliffe was a key player in ensuring that the military’s top priorities were retained in final version of the 2019 NDAA, which will soon be sent to President Trump’s desk. “In today’s world, providing for the common defense encompasses an increasingly broad range of threats at both our physical and our digital borders. Hostile nation states, violent terrorist groups and bad actors are developing progressively sophisticated weaponry and technologies at every turn – and we must keep pace,” Ratcliffe said. “The 2019 NDAA we just passed is consistent with President Trump’s plan to revitalize America’s military, so we can continue protecting the citizens of this great country as the Constitution demands. I look forward to his swift signature of this important bill into law.” The 2019 NDAA includes the following key provisions: Implements the largest military pay raise in nine years at 2.6 percent Blocks Guantanamo Bay detainee transfers to the United States Enhances military capabilities needed to combat terrorism and radical Islamist extremists Increases the size of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Naval and Air Reserve, and Air Guard Strengthens alliance with Israel through co-development and co-production of missile defense and weapons systems Prioritizes cybersecurity by supporting defensive and offensive cyberspace strategies Supports the long-term viability of America’s military installations Declines to authorize Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Includes funding to rehabilitate and replace worn out military equipment, and to rebuild military infrastructure Makes critical investments in missile defense and America’s nuclear deterrent Click here for more information on the 2019 NDAA. ###
07.24.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe's (R-Texas) Advancing Cybersecurity Diagnostics and Mitigation Act (H.R. 6443) was approved today by the House Homeland Security Committee. The bill will codify the Continuous Diagnostics Mitigation (CDM) program at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). “OMB found that almost 75 percent of federal agencies are vulnerable to cyber threats, in large part due to their inability to understand cyber risks and therefore prioritize their resources. It is DHS’s CDM program that will help federal agencies and the whole of the federal government understand the threats they face, and the risks vulnerabilities pose in real-time,” Ratcliffe said at the markup. “Codifying the CDM program will further DHS’ role in the cybersecurity mission throughout the government and give the newly confirmed Undersecretary of NPPD – Chris Krebs – the kind of ammunition he needs to keep growing this important program.” An amendment offered by Rep. Jim Langevin (D-R.I.) was adopted to require DHS to address whether the original four-phased plan for CDM remains the best approach for implementation in its report to Congress required by H.R. 6443. Click here to view Ratcliffe’s full remarks at the committee markup of H.R. 6443. ###
07.20.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) announced today the hire of Wounded Warrior Fellow, Charles Jordan. After two years of service in Ratcliffe’s Texarkana office through the Wounded Warrior Fellowship Program, Jordan will join the staff as a full-time constituent services representative, handling the majority of casework for the region. “I am humbled and encouraged by the faith and trust that Congressman Ratcliffe has shown. It is a privilege to continue the work of making our area and our nation a better place. Congressman Ratcliffe has been a great guide and mentor for public service, and I hope to maintain the standard,” Jordan said. As a constituent services representative, Jordan will process a broad range of casework requests, including those for veterans and service members who need assistance navigating federal government agencies. Prior to joining Ratcliffe’s staff, Jordan served in Operation Iraqi Freedom III from 2006 to 2007. He then served as a Military Technician for the DoD-USARC from 2009 to 2016. He was also deployed in support of Task Force Rita and Task Force Katrina. He said he felt called to join the military following the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Jordan has lived in the Texarkana area for 17 years with his wife and five children where he serves the community through his involvement with his church, the Randy Sam’s Homeless Shelter and prison ministry. He holds a bachelor’s degree from Texas A&M University-Texarkana, an associate degree from Anchor Theological Seminary & Bible Institute, and a master’s degree in instructional technology from Texas A&M-Texarkana. ###
07.18.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas), chairman of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Protection Subcommittee on the House Homeland Security Committee, introduced legislation today to advance and modernize the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Continuous Diagnostics Mitigation (CDM) program. The Advancing Cybersecurity Diagnostics and Mitigation Act (H.R. 6443) will codify CDM at DHS. “CDM is a critical component of our national cybersecurity strategy. Supporting DHS Under Secretary Krebs’ effective deployment and ongoing improvement of CDM at NPPD is a top priority of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Protection Subcommittee,” Ratcliffe said. “Our goal with this new legislation is to help boost the long-term success of the CDM program by ensuring it keeps pace with the cutting-edge capabilities in the private sector. We’re also safeguarding agencies from getting stuck with technologies that will soon become outdated or unsupported by their vendors.” The bill will require DHS to develop policies and procedures for reporting systemic cybersecurity risks and potential incidents based on data collected under CDM. It will also require regular improvements to CDM that keep pace with the emerging technologies, and it will help ensure that CDM continues to evolve and adjust to the changing cyber threat landscape. “At the end of the day, cybersecurity is national security – and that means we’ve got to ensure we’re addressing the dangers at our digital borders through risk-based, cost-effective strategies enabled by programs like CDM. I’m hopeful for the strong support of our bill to back this important mission, as the cyber threats we face continue to evolve.” ###
07.18.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) voted today for the passage of legislation (H.Res. 990) to back the critical mission of the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency and knock down recent calls by Democrats in Congress to abolish it. “It’s not surprising that my Democratic colleagues are, once again, playing political games with Americans’ safety. Their proposal to abolish ICE – the very agency tasked with shielding our citizens from dangerous terrorists, gang members, sex traffickers and drug traffickers – is nothing short of nonsensical and represents an outright rejection of the responsibility we have to protect the people we serve,” Ratcliffe said. In the last fiscal year, ICE Enforcement and Removal Operations arrested 127,000 criminal aliens. This included 76,000 dangerous drug offenses, 48,000 assault offenses, 11,000 weapon offenses, 5,000 sexual assault offenses, 2,000 kidnapping offenses and 1,800 homicide offenses. At the same time, ICE Homeland Security Investigations made 4,818 gang-related arrests. “As a former U.S. attorney, I was the top federal law enforcement officer for more than 33,000 miles of North and East Texas. This service gave me a deep, personal appreciation for the brave men and women at agencies like ICE who are dedicated to enforcing the rule of law. As a member of Congress, I’m committed to continuing my support of their important work on behalf of our national security and the safety of our communities.” ###
07.17.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) congratulated Rockwall native, Emma Bishop, today for her successful completion of a congressional internship in his Washington office this summer. Bishop graduated from Rockwall High School in 2017 and will enter her sophomore year at The University of Texas at Dallas in the fall. Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) and Emma Bishop of Rockwall on steps of U.S. Capitol Building “Serving 700,000 constituents throughout 18 counties in Northeast Texas wouldn’t be possible if it wasn’t for the dedicated assistance of bright, young folks like Emma, who help support the work of my staff,” Ratcliffe said. “I’d like to thank Emma for her service to the people of the 4th District of Texas during her internship in my Washington, D.C. office. It’s always terrific to see someone give back to their hometown community through civil service.” Bishop said her internship was a memorable experience that taught her how a congressional office bridges the gap between Northeast Texas and Washington. “I learned just how much our district means to our government. Being from a small town – the smallest county in Texas to be exact – it’s easy to think that your opinions or interests might be written off because D.C. is so far away, but that isn’t the case in the slightest,” she said. “To learn how the Congressman and the members in the House of Representatives are working toward a positive solution has been an amazing experience. I am forever grateful for this opportunity that Congressman Ratcliffe has given to me, and I am proud to be a Texan and a citizen of his district.” ###
07.12.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) and Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) introduced legislation to eliminate barriers to the construction of the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir (LBCR). The North Texas Water Supply Security Act (H.R. 4423) reforms litigation processes to allow the project to be completed in a timely manner. “With booming population growth in Northeast Texas, we can’t afford to allow any more bureaucratic delays to the construction of the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir, which is vital to ensuring we meet our increasing water needs,” Rep. Ratcliffe said. “I’m proud to be working with Senator Cruz and my fellow Northeast Texas Representatives on legislation that will strip away the red tape that’s been getting in the way of this important project for far too long.” “I am proud to introduce this legislation with my colleagues from North Texas,” Sen. Cruz said. “For far too long, bureaucratic red tape has left projects like Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir unfinished. By eliminating those delays, this bill will help address the looming water crisis facing North Texas and provide certainty to Texas’ water supply.” ###
07.10.2018	I could not be more pleased with President Trump’s nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to serve on the Supreme Court of the United States. Judge Kavanaugh’s extensive legal experience, including his service as a federal appellate judge on the D.C. Circuit Court, qualifies him as an excellent candidate for this important position that will have a lasting impact on our country. His longstanding and unwavering commitment to upholding justice makes me confident that Judge Kavanaugh will work diligently to uphold the Constitution as a Justice on the highest court of the land. I urge my Senate colleagues to move swiftly on his confirmation and stand strong against any pushback from Democrats to delay this process.
06.25.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) called on top national security officials today to provide answers on the Obama administration’s “stand-down” order in response to Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. The issuance of the “stand-down” order was confirmed under oath last week by President Obama’s cybersecurity czar, Michael Daniel, before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. The “stand-down” order occurred almost simultaneously with the launch of the investigation into the possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia. This brings the potential political motivation of the Obama administration’s investigation into the Trump campaign into question, Ratcliffe said. The full text of Ratcliffe’s letter to National Security Advisor John R. Bolton, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen is as follows: June 25, 2018 John R. Bolton National Security Advisor National Security Council Eisenhower Executive Office Building 1650 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20504 Dear Mr. Bolton, During a recent Senate Select Committee on Intelligence hearing held to review the Obama and Trump administrations’ policy response to Russian election interference, Michael Daniel, the cybersecurity czar for former President Obama, confirmed to Sen. Jim Risch (R-ID) that former national security advisor Susan Rice issued a “stand down” order in August 2016 in response to Russian cyber-attacks during the 2016 presidential campaign. In nearly simultaneous fashion, the Obama Administration launched an aggressive investigation into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia. In that same hearing, former Obama State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said that Russian President Vladimir Putin expected deterrent measures when Russia interfered in the 2016 U.S. election, but did not see any response, so he felt he could “keep pushing.” As Chairman of the House Homeland Security Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Protection Subcommittee, these cyber-threats and the failure of the Obama Administration to take action are particularly alarming. In addition, given ongoing developments shedding light on improper adherence to standard practice and the presence of pervasive bias at the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Justice during the Obama Administration, the “stand down” order raises further troubling questions about whether Obama Administration officials appropriately carried out their duties to protect the national security of the United States, or rather used their authority to carry out politically-motivated objectives. In order to further assess whether appropriate steps were taken to protect the United States from cyber-attacks, please examine and respond to the following, either in writing or a classified briefing if deemed appropriate: 1. Did Susan Rice issue the stand-down order on her own volition, or at the behest of other Obama Administration officials? 2. What justification, if any, did Susan Rice use to support issuance of the stand-down order? 3. Did Susan Rice depart from traditional practice and procedure of the National Security Council in issuing the stand-down order? We owe it to the American people to ensure that the federal government follows its own rules, without regard to partisan bias and motivations. I appreciate your consideration of these important questions. Sincerely, John Ratcliffe Member of Congress cc: The Honorable Mike Pompeo Secretary of State United States Department of State The Honorable Kirstjen Nielsen Secretary of Homeland Security United States Department of Homeland Security Ratcliffe recently discussed this concern in an interview with Maria Bartiromo on Fox News. Click here to watch. ###
06.08.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe’s (R-Texas) amendment passed in the U.S. House of Representatives today to prohibit funds from being used for an additional round of BRAC (base realignment and closure) at the Red River Army Depot. Ratcliffe gave the following remarks on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives prior to the passage of his amendment: “Mr. Chairman, I'm grateful to once again have the opportunity to offer this important amendment which would simply prohibit any funds made available in this act from being used to propose, to plan for, or to execute a new or additional round of BRAC.” “Mr. Chairman, I'm privileged to represent the 4th Congressional District of Texas, which is home to the Red River Army Depot. It has supported the war fighter since 1941. Although the depot community has weathered a lot of changes over the years, its commitment to mission has remained the same.” “On the placards inside of every vehicle are the words: We build it as if our lives depend on it. Theirs do. The depot is a vital job creator in northeast Texas and it's a critical component, Mr. Chairman, of our national defense. In this fiscal environment we have to be careful stewards of taxpayer dollars and focus our limited resources on addressing critical national security objectives and our military readiness. Having another round of BRAC simply won't help us achieve this goal.” “To that point, the Government Accountability Office said that the last round of BRAC back in 2005 cost the American taxpayers over $35 billion, which was 67 percent more than the original cost estimate. Starting another round of BRAC would weaken our capabilities while increasing our vulnerabilities in the face of critical threats facing our nation right now. “I'd like to thank my colleagues who have supported this important amendment for the past three years and I look forward having this amendment included in the MILCON-VA appropriations bill.” Click here to view Ratcliffe’s full floor speech. ###
06.08.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) voted Thursday for the House passage of the Spending Cuts to Expired and Unnecessary Programs Act (H.R. 3). The bill answers President Trump’s recent call on Congress to roll back nearly $15 billion in unused or wasteful federal funds through a rescissions package. H.R. 3 is the largest federal spending cut of its kind in history. It utilizes the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 to rescind previously appropriated funding. “The Northeast Texans I represent sent me to Washington to get our fiscal house in order – it’s why I introduced the toughest balanced budget amendment in Congress, and I’ve consistently refused to kick the can down the road through irresponsible spending measures. The massive funding rollback we just passed represents a huge step forward in the fight to restore our fiscal sanity,” Ratcliffe said. “I’m glad the Trump administration has worked diligently with us to identify programs that aren’t being used or are a blatant waste of taxpayer dollars, so we can eliminate nearly $15 billion in unnecessary funding. I urge my Senate colleagues to move swiftly in taking up our rescissions package, so we can send it to the president’s desk as soon as possible.” H.R. 3 included 34 separate rescissions for funding that was unspent by agencies for several years in many cases. For example, H.R. 3 rescinded $4.3 billion in funding that was untouched by the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program since 2011. Since its inception in 2007, the program had only closed five loans under this authority. ###
06.05.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) announced today the 2018 Rising Lone Star winners from high schools across Texas’ 4th District. “Today’s students are tomorrow’s leaders, and the Rising Lone Star program gives us the opportunity to showcase young folks who’ve distinguished themselves on the fast track to success. I look forward to seeing what they’ll accomplish as thoughtful, engaged members of the Northeast Texas community in the years to come,” Ratcliffe said. Ratcliffe launched the Rising Lone Star award program to recognize students who exhibit outstanding leadership or service in their schools and communities. The recipients are nominated for the Rising Lone Star by their principals, administrators or counselors. The 2018 recipients are as follows: Recipients Brett McGee and Daisy Portillo from Pittsburg High School Recipients Emily Maxwell and Jenna Reid from Queen City High School Recipients Treston Taylor and Cyrpress Wright from Hughes Springs High School Recipient Bryson Shubert from Avinger High School Recipient Hannah Molandes from Avinger High School Recipients Kelcie Kennon and Seth McCarley from Blue Ridge High School Recipients Caleigh Oglesby and Jordan Paul Anderson from Cooper High School Recipients Alexandria Nicole Passanisi and Randolph Clayton Arris from Bonham High School Recipient Samuel Pepe from Sherman High School Recipient Lauryn Nicole Wise from Pottsboro High School Recipient Connor Jackson from Howe High School Recipients Emily Guajardo and Tyler Kelley from Sulphur Bluff High School Recipient Levi Rogers from Commerce High School Recipients Taylor Degelia and Levi Smith from Lone Oak High School Recipient Hannah O’Leary from Caddo Mills High School Recipients Zykia Rose and George Cherry from Clarksville High School Recipient Molly Kate Evans from Rockwall High School Recipient Audrey Courreges from Mount Pleasant High School Recipients Brandy Nicole Swink and Joe Sanders Hendrix from Redwater High School Recipients Emily Jennings and Gage Jones from Maud High School Recipient Madison Whisenhunt from Hooks High School Recipients Madison Whisenhunt and Phillip Moore from Hooks High School Recipients Morgan Clawson and Dylan Throckmorton from Ore City High School Recipients Donavan Alexander Whatley and Halle Makayla Pope from New Diana High School Recipients Jackson Bland and Murphy Williams from Gladewater High School ###
05.30.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) announced today Rhianna Swift from Rockwall High School as the People’s Choice winner for the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. Swift beat out ten other finalists for the People’s Choice title, which were chosen by a panel of judges who assessed submissions from high school students across the 18 counties in Texas’ 4th District. Her artwork, “Rockwall at Dusk,” received the most votes on Facebook during a two-week voting period. 2018 Peoples Choice Winner: “Rockwall at Dusk” by Rhianna Swift of Rockwall High School, acrylic “The artwork submitted for the Congressional Art Competition is always extremely impressive, and this year was no exception. I’d like to congratulate Rhianna for taking home the 2018 People’s Choice title, and I wish her the best in her future endeavors,” Ratcliffe said. ###
05.24.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) voted today for the passage of the 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which boosts support for the military, enhances national defense capabilities and provides the largest military pay raise in nine years at 2.6 percent. The bill authorizes a total of $639.1 billion in funding necessary to restore adequate readiness for U.S. armed forces, protect the homeland from rapidly evolving threats and provide troops with the resources they need. This includes $69 billion for Global War on Terror and Overseas Contingency Operations. “As a member of Congress, it’s my job to ensure we provide for the common defense – and that means equipping our military with the very best defense capabilities in the world, as they selflessly fight to protect our homeland,” Ratcliffe said. “With the growing threats posed by Russia, China, North Korea and Iran, we can’t afford to neglect the critical investments we need to rebuild America’s military – a priority I’m grateful the Trump administration is working with us to advance.” The 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) includes the following notable provisions: Increases pay for service members by 2.6 percent Blocks Guantanamo Bay detainee transfers to the United States Enhances military capabilities needed to combat terrorism and radical Islamist extremists Increases the size of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Naval and Air Reserve, and Air Guard Strengthens support for Israel by funding co-development and co-production of missile defense and weapons systems Prioritizes cybersecurity by supporting defensive and offensive cyberspace strategies Supports the long-term viability of America’s military installations ###
05.14.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) announced today the finalists from the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. The finalists were chosen by a panel of judges who assessed submissions from high school students across the 18 counties in Texas’ 4th District. “I was incredibly impressed by all of the submissions we received in this year’s Congressional Art Competition. I’d like to congratulate each student who was named a finalist, and I’m looking forward to seeing which piece will stand out as the favorite in this year’s People’s Choice contest,” Ratcliffe said. The finalists and their artwork are as follows: “Colorful Portrait” by Desirae Barrera of Rockwall High School, oil on glass “Rockwall at Dusk” by Rhianna Swift of Rockwall High School, acrylic “A Good Friend” by Kelsie Brouillette of Rockwall High School, gouache “Time is Running Out” by Brittany Ables of Rockwall High School, ink and paint “Favorite Day” by Min-Suk Cha of Rockwall High School, acrylic paint “Not Blue” by Isabella Gonzalez of Rockwall High School, acrylic paint on paper “Spoils of Faith” by Noah Self of Allen High School, colored pencil “I Spy” by Susana Teichroeb of Chisum High School, colored pencil “Endurance” by McKenzie Brown of Texas High School, mixed media “Angel” by Sarah Leano of Sulphur Springs High School, block print “Hands Wrapped Around Scissors” by Gabrielle Shreve of Prosper High School, prismacolor All finalists were automatically entered into the People’s Choice contest, where the piece that receives the most votes on Facebook between May 14 and 28 will be announced as the winner. Click here to view the People’s Choice gallery and to cast your vote by hitting “like” on your favorite artwork submission. In addition to the People’s Choice finalists, Jennifer Cogswell from Texoma Christian School was named as the grand prize winner for the 4th District of Texas the panel of judges last week. ###
05.10.2018	Reps. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) and Ro Khanna (D-Calif.) introduced legislation today to improve citizens’ interaction with the federal government online, while reducing the cost of assistance from federal agencies. The 21st Century Integrated Digital Experience Act (IDEA) (H.R.5759) will lower federal costs and increase efficiency by digitizing government processes and establishing minimum standards for federal websites, including mobile-friendly interfaces in compliance with the latest security protocols. Recent data from the IRS shows that in-person or live assistance calls to the agency cost taxpayers between $40 and $60 on average, while digital transactions cost only $0.22 on average. By allowing more in-person transactions to be replaced with online transactions, the 21st Century IDEA modernization will reduce such federal costs significantly. “The federal government exists to serve American people, and the 21st Century IDEA will ensure we’re meeting our citizens’ needs in the most efficient, cost-effective way possible,” Ratcliffe said. “Our bill takes advantage of new and emerging technologies that can drastically improve the way our federal agencies provide critical services to folks across the country, including people with disabilities or those who live in rural areas with limited access to traditional, in-person assistance services.” “The 21st Century IDEA enables accessible and efficient government resources, reduces production costs, and encourages continuous digital enhancement,” Khanna said. “Government exists to serve citizens, and this bill ensures government leverages available technology to provide the cohesive, user-friendly online service that people around this country expect and deserve.” Original cosponsors include, Reps. Ro Khanna (D-Calif.), John Ratcliffe (R-Texas), Barbara Comstock (R-Va.), Gerald E. Connolly (D-Va.), Ryan Costello (R-Pa.), John R. Curtis (R-Utah), Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-Pa.), Duncan D. Hunter (R-Calif.), Robin Kelly (D-Ill.), Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-Ill.), Brenda Lawrence (D-Mich.), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.), Jamie Raskin (D-Md.), Steve Russell (R-Okla.), and Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-N.J.) More information about the 21st Century IDEA is available here. Statements of Support: Adobe, Vice President & Public Sector Chief Technology Officer, John Landwehr: “There is a growing gap between the digital expectations of citizens and government’s current digital services – and this legislation would be a key step towards closing that gap by transforming digital government services and improving citizen experiences. Representatives Khanna and Ratcliffe’s legislation would set clear benchmarks and speed up the timeline for departments to modernize vital digital services like providing electronic signatures and building more accessible websites and forms.” BSA | The Software Alliance, Vice President, Legislative Strategy, Craig Albright: “Software plays a critical role in the delivery of government services in the digital age. The 21st Century IDEA Act promotes the modernization of digital government services, and it will be an important step to accelerate the benefits federal agencies and constituents can receive through the use of innovative technologies.” Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, Vice President, Daniel Castro: “Citizens deserve access to secure and convenient government services online. Unfortunately, many federal agencies still use outdated, paper-based processes, instead of modern, digital ones. This legislation would steer federal agencies towards developing sites that make government services more efficient, more secure, and easier to use.” Microsoft, Corporate Vice President, U.S. Government Affairs, Fred Humphries: “Technology is rapidly transforming the way we live, work, and do business. U.S. Reps. Ro Khanna of California and John Ratcliffe of Texas are right to bring this digital transformation to improve consumer interaction with the federal government online. Their 21st Century Integrated Digital Experience Act (IDEA) is a strong, bipartisan step forward.” Oracle, Vice President for Government Affairs, Jason Mahler: “The 21st Century Integrated Digital Experience Act (21st Century IDEA Act) would mandate that the US Government provide better information and digital services to citizens, which is good government at its core. We fully support efforts that make government less burdensome, especially when it comes to improving day to day interactions with agencies and government offices.” ServiceNow, Michael J. McCalip, Director of Federal Strategy & Business Development: “The U.S. government continually ranks near the bottom of most major surveys when it comes to customer experience and this has to change. In the 21st Century citizens and government employees have come to expect an experience that is more akin to what they have in their daily lives – mobile enabled, fast, intuitive and customized to meet their needs. Leveraging new and innovative technologies can help government improve customer experience and satisfaction, while reducing costs and increasing efficiency. “As a leading provider of customer service solutions to governments around the world, ServiceNow knows first-hand how technology can change the digital government experience. Our technology, which is being deployed across U.S. federal agencies, is starting to transform customer service by connecting departments, workflows, and systems to proactively resolve customer issues and provide critical information, while also providing a personalized experience for citizen-customers and automating and reducing case volume for federal employees. “We applaud Reps. Ro Khanna of California and John Ratcliffe of Texas for recognizing the role technology can play to improving the customer experience and for introducing the 21st Century Integrated Digital Experience Act. This legislation, when enacted, will take IT modernization to the next level. The bill’s requirements that the federal government modernize websites and digitize government processes to eliminate paper and existing, costly manual processes is exactly what the federal government needs to do to provide 21st Century digital services to its citizenry. We look forward to working with Reps. Khanna and Ratcliffe and the 12 other cosponsors of this important legislation as it moves forward.” SIIA, Vice President for Public Policy, Mark MacCarthy: “While the government is making substantial progress towards embracing cloud computing and replacing legacy IT systems, many citizen services remain trapped in a 20th Century analog world. American citizens expect and deserve greater efficiency from the government, such as digital services that keep pace with innovation and let us manage our lives through connected devices anywhere, at any time. “SIIA supports the 21st Century IDEA Act because it will create a digital services strategy to enhance citizen-facing digital services and improve customer experience, while also substantially reducing costs. This legislation will help to modernize federal agency websites, support the increasing use of mobile devices, digitize government processes, transition away paper-based forms and in-person interactions, and leverage electronic signatures, and create a 21st Century digital experience for citizens. “SIIA applauds Congressmen Rep. Ro Khanna (D-CA) and John Ratcliffe (R-TX) for introducing this legislation to provide American citizens with modern, cost effective digital government services.” ###
05.09.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) announced today the grand prize winner of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition: Jennifer Cogswell, a sophomore at Texoma Christian School. Her artwork was selected by a panel of judges who assessed submissions from high school students across the 18 counties in Texas’ 4th District. The Congressional Art Competition is an annual competition sponsored by the Congressional Institute, which gives students the opportunity to share their talent with visitors to the Capitol. A grand prize winner from each congressional district is displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building for one year. Cogswell’s winning artwork, “Wheat Fields of Texas,” was produced using photography. “Wheat Fields of Texas” by Jennifer Cogswell “Once again, we had an impressive variety of talent on display during the Congressional Art Competition, and I’d like to congratulate Jennifer for standing out as this year’s first place winner,” Ratcliffe said. Cogswell, along with the grand prize winners from each congressional district across the country, will be invited to attend an unveiling and award ceremony this summer in Washington. In addition to the grand prize winner, Ratcliffe will open voting for a People’s Choice award on his Facebook page on May 14. The People’s Choice winner will be announced after voting closes on May 28. ###
05.08.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement on President Trump’s announcement today that the United States will exit the Obama-era nuclear deal with Iran: “When President Obama first announced his nuclear agreement with Iran, I made it abundantly clear that I stand adamantly opposed to this bad deal that prioritizes partisan politics over national security. The Iran nuclear deal has allowed one of the world’s largest state sponsors of terror to barrel even closer toward a nuclear weapon, while ignoring its ongoing brutal human rights violations and destabilizing activities throughout the Middle East. It’s long past time to pull the plug on the hundreds of millions of dollars that are flowing to this global menace as a result of this ill-contrived deal. I commend President Trump for taking decisive action to withdraw the United States and impose the highest level of economic sanctions possible.” ###
04.25.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) hosted the Northeast Texas Tax Cut Roadshow Monday, where he visited businesses in Texas’ 4th Congressional District that were positively impacted by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The Roadshow included stops at Cypress Bank, Tyson Foods and 903 Brewers. “I voted for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act because I firmly believe that putting more money back into the hands of the American people is the right way to fuel robust economic growth on a local and national level. Since this bill was signed into law, we’ve already seen an enormous positive impact here in Northeast Texas,” Ratcliffe said. “I’ve been grateful to hear from local employers across Texas’ 4th District about the huge investments they’ve been able to make – through employee bonuses, increased retirement savings matching, educational opportunities and facility upgrades – thanks to savings from our tax cut law. I wanted to take the time to highlight these successes on the Tax Cut Roadshow.” Ratcliffe’s first stop was at Cypress Bank, a community bank in Pittsburg, Texas, which gave out $50,000 in employee bonuses, increased 401(K) matching and invested in remodeling its facilities with savings from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Ratcliffe visits Cypress Bank in Pittsburg, Texas Ratcliffe then visited Tyson Foods in Sherman, Texas, one of the largest employers in Texas’ 4th District. As a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, Tysons Foods gave bonuses ranging from $500 to $1,000 to its employees, and it invested in educational opportunities for team members, as well as capital projects to promote future growth. Ratcliffe visits Tyson Foods in Sherman, Texas The final stop on the Roadshow was at 903 Brewers, a local brewery in Sherman, Texas. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is saving 903 Brewers thousands of dollars each month, which is being reinvested into its employees and into improving its facilities. Ratcliffe visits 903 Brewers in Sherman, Texas Since the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that Ratcliffe voted for in Congress was signed into law, nearly 500 companies have announced pay raises, bonuses or 401(K) hikes that will benefit 4 million Americans nationwide. The average family of four in Texas’ 4th District is expected to save an average of $2,400 annually as a result of the reforms included in the law. More information about the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is available at fairandsimple.gop. ###
04.17.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) introduced legislation Tuesday to strengthen legal punishment for crimes committed by illegal aliens who’ve been previously convicted of unlawful reentry. The Peter, Ellie, and Grayson Victims of Illegal Criminal Entry (VOICES) Act of 2018 (H.R. 5526) aims to stop criminal aliens from receiving lighter punishment for crimes committed while illegally in the United States by amending concurrent sentencing guidelines. It has 13 cosponsors, including five Texans. The VOICES Act is named after the victims of a fatal car crash in Northeast Texas in March of 2016 that was caused by an illegal alien, Margarito Quintero Rosales, who was driving without a driver’s license after unlawfully reentering the United States. The car crash caused by Rosales killed Peter Hacking, who was a lawful immigrant and a volunteer firefighter, along with his two children, 4-year-old Ellie and 22-month-old Grayson, on their way back to their home in Lavon, Texas on Highway 78. The victims were survived by Mr. Hacking’s wife, Courtney Hacking. “My heart was broken when I learned about the devastating loss of Peter, Ellie and Grayson. This tragedy was caused by someone who was here illegally in the first place. And worse yet, our current laws allowed him to escape with what equated to no additional punishment on top of his existing sentences,” Ratcliffe said. “I’m glad my colleagues are joining me in my fight to ensure that future tragedies like this will be properly deterred by stopping illegal criminal aliens from falling through the cracks of our criminal justice system. We owe the victims’ families nothing less.” Rosales received a two-year state prison sentence for criminally negligent homicide, which will count toward his existing sentence for his crime of illegal reentry following a prior deportation. The VOICES Act would address the loopholes in the U.S. Code that allowed Rosales to count his new sentence toward his existing sentence, which effectively allowed him to receive no additional punishment for causing the death of Mr. Hacking and his two children. The bill accomplishes this by elevating unlawful presence in the United States to an aggravating factor for any federal criminal offense, and by ensuring that time served in a state facility won’t be allowed to count toward an existing prison sentence for an immigration crime. Additionally, the VOICES Act allows prosecutors to consider crimes committed after unlawful reentry on the federal level, which seeks to further ensure that additional sentences at the state level will not be served in place of federal sentences. The VOICES Act is cosponsored by Reps. Lamar Smith (R-Texas), Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), Steve King (R-Iowa), Mark Walker (R-N.C.), Andy Biggs (R-Ariz.), Lou Barletta (R-Pa.), Brian Babin (R-Texas), Paul A. Gosar (R-Ariz.), Neal Dunn (R-Fla.), Steve Womack (R-Ark.), Jodey Arrington (R-Texas), Michael Burgess (R-Texas) and Todd Rokita (R-Ind.) ###
04.12.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement on the Democrats’ vote Thursday to block the passage of a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution (H.J. Res. 2) in the U.S. House of Representatives: “I was sent to Washington to restore fiscal sanity to our federal government. Since coming to Congress, I’ve consistently sounded the alarm on the dire need to balance our federal budget. In fact, a Balanced Budget Amendment was the very first bill I introduced in the House of Representatives. I’m disappointed that House Democrats blocked the passage of such legislation, preventing what could have been a significant step in this important fight. “Congress has repeatedly failed to operate under a balanced budget for nearly two decades, while our national debt has skyrocketed past $21 trillion. This pattern is irresponsible, unsustainable and unfair to future generations. We can’t afford not to hold lawmakers’ feet to the fire if we’re going to ensure this systemic pattern of overspending taxpayer dollars will finally be put to an end.” Ratcliffe has introduced his own Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution each term since being in Congress. Click here to view his recent op-ed in support of adopting Balanced Budget Amendment. ###
04.03.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement in response to the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) announcement that the North Texas Regional Airport (NTRA) is cleared to participate in the Federal Contract Tower Program, which is expected to save Grayson County taxpayers $300,000 each year. Participation in the Program will allow NTRA’s tower to be manned and operated for additional hours each day in support of heightened operational needs stemming from population growth in Northeast Texas. This will allow NTRA to facilitate an additional 20,000 flights each year, up from 80,000 to 100,000. “After several years of dealing with the Obama administration’s constant pushbacks, I’m proud that our hard work to get NTRA into the Federal Contract Tower Program has finally paid off. “This wouldn’t have been possible without my staff’s tireless coordination with our home-state U.S. Senators and their staffs, constant contact with the FAA and DOT, and collaboration with Grayson County officials, including Judge Magers and Texas Aviation Partners. “Since the Trump administration took charge, I’m glad we’ve made drastic progress on this important Northeast Texas priority at a much more efficient pace, so that the folks I’m proud to represent can start reaping the rewards of our long-fought battle. “As the Congressman of Texas’ 4th District, I’ve proudly fought for policies that add jet fuel to our local economy, and it’s time to couple that boost in growth with a long-term investment in our regional airport.” ###
03.26.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement in response to the Trump administration’s action in conjunction with our NATO allies to expel Russian diplomats from the United States and close the Russian consulate in Seattle: “I commend the Trump administration and our NATO allies for taking decisive action against Russia’s destabilizing activities. We will not tolerate the threats posed by Russia’s ongoing aggression toward our homeland and throughout the world. This pattern of recklessness must end.” ###
03.16.2018	Reps. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas), Jim Langevin (D-R.I.) and Will Hurd (R-Texas) requested Thursday $237 million to fund the Department of Homeland Security’s Continuous Diagnostics and Mitigation (CDM) program in FY 2019 in a letter sent to the House Appropriations Committee’s Subcommittee on Homeland Security. Oversight of DHS’ ongoing efforts to secure federal networks though the CDM program is one of Ratcliffe’s top legislative priorities as Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee’s Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Protection Subcommittee. The full text of the letter is below: Dear Chairman Carter and Ranking Member Roybal-Allard: As you begin crafting the Fiscal Year 2019 Homeland Security Appropriations legislation, we write in regard to the Department of Homeland Security’s Continuous Diagnostics and Mitigation (CDM) program. As you know, the CDM program provides dynamic cybersecurity capabilities to allow federal agencies to secure their networks, systems and data with the goal of strengthening federal cybersecurity posture for the .gov. Additionally, CDM expands the speed and scope of information sharing and motivates agencies to implement best practices across their enterprise. In 2012, DHS launched the roll-out of a four-phase process that will allow CDM to eventually provide the American people the kind of federal cybersecurity that they deserve. Right now, DHS is overseeing the process of identifying what systems are connected to the federal networks and who has access to those systems before shifting into the final phase, which will focus on the security of the data itself. The CDM program is of paramount importance because of its ability to provide the federal enterprise with the ability to monitor and assess the vulnerabilities and threats to its networks and systems in an ever-changing cyber threat landscape. As such, we respectfully request that you include $237 million in the Fiscal Year 2019 Homeland Security Appropriations legislation to help the CDM program and DHS’ overarching cybersecurity mission of providing federal departments and agencies with the capabilities and tools they need to secure networks and systems from intrusions. Thank you for your consideration of this request. ###
03.01.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe’s (R-Texas) district team held meetings with high school leaders this week as a part of the Congressional Student Leadership Program (CSLP). The program includes participants from across Texas’ 4th District who met in Texarkana, Rockwall and Sherman. “We’ve got another incredibly talented bunch of students in the Congressional Student Leadership Program this year. Their desire to challenge themselves beyond your typical political science or government class is what really sets them apart as future leaders,” Ratcliffe said. CSLP participants meet in Sherman CSLP participants meet in Rockwall This was the third out of four CSLP meetings scheduled for the 2017-2018 school year. During this session, students worked on their capstone assignment, where they will examine the role government plays on a specific issue area of interest to them. Students in the Texarkana session heard from Dr. Gary Stading, dean of the A&M-Texarkana College of Business, Engineering, and Technology. “I enjoyed connecting with students from Texas High School and expanding on how the role of higher education is changing due to the developing technologies of the world, and how the students as future leaders can be prepared for careers that will meet the demands of these changing technologies,” Standing said. Students in the Sherman session heard from Julie Lollar, the executive assistant for Grayson County Judge Bill Magers, about the responsibilities of county and city governments and how they interact with the federal government. The CSLP is designed to enhance educational opportunities for high school students who are interested in politics, government and civic engagement. “The CSLP gives student a first-hand experience in learning about the government that you don’t learn in school,” said Emma Herrington, a junior homeschool student from Fannin County. “I highly recommend the CSLP for any student interested in learning more about how the federal government actually works,” said Lois Jones, a senior homeschool student from Grayson County. More information about the CSLP is available here: ratcliffe.house.gov/congressional-student-leadership-program. ###
02.22.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) was recognized for earning a perfect score on the Family Research Council (FRC) Action’s recently released annual scorecard. He received FRC Action's "True Blue" award for displaying unwavering commitment and consistent support of faith, family and freedom through his votes in Congress last year. “As a Member of Congress, defending the foundational principles of our great nation is one of the most important parts of my job,” Ratcliffe said. “I’m grateful for the strides we’ve made over the past year to protect life, support families and defend liberty, and I’m looking forward to building upon these wins.” Ratcliffe’s 100 percent score was based on the following votes: • No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion • Disapproval of Obama's HHS Title X Rule • Obamacare Repeal and Replace • DOD Transgender Funding (Blocking Funding for Sex-Reassignment Surgeries) • D.C. Reproductive Health Non-Discrimination Amendment • Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act • Independent Payment Advisory Board Repeal • Tax Cuts & Jobs Act Family Research Council Action President Tony Perkins praised Ratcliffe for earning the True Blue award. “Rep. Ratcliffe deserves praise for his unwavering commitment to stand for life, family, marriage and religious liberty,” Perkins said. “Texans should be encouraged to know that they have a Member of Congress such as Rep. Ratcliffe who has come alongside other members and our president to begin the work of rebuilding our nation, and protecting the very values that made America great.” Click here to download a copy of the Vote Scorecard. ###
02.15.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) and Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) introduced legislation today to crack down on drug-facilitated human trafficking. The bipartisan, bicameral Protecting Rights of Those Exploited by Coercive Trafficking (PROTECT) Act (H.R. 5027) specifically addresses the use of drugs to facilitate human trafficking and protect vulnerable victims of trafficking. The PROTECT Act would amend existing human trafficking law to specify that the use of drugs or illegal substances to cause a person to engage in a commercial sex act or forced labor constitutes a form of coercion. It also aims to protect trafficking victims from prosecution by recognizing that victims are often forced to commit crimes by virtue of their own victimization. “Living in the greatest country in the world, it’s an unfortunate reality that there are still basic human rights abuses, like human trafficking, that take place in our society. We have an obligation to do everything in our power to address and correct these abuses – an obligation I took seriously as a federal prosecutor and do now as a lawmaker,” Ratcliffe said. “I’m proud be joining a bipartisan group of my colleagues to continue this fight in Congress. The PROTECT Act cracks down on dangerous human traffickers who manipulate their victims through drug abuse and addiction by working to ensure they’re held accountable to the fullest extent of the law.” “Creating and preying on the addictions of children is just one of the many despicable tools traffickers use to control their victims. The PROTECT Act would clarify that using drugs to force individuals into sex or labor trafficking demands a greater criminal penalty,” Cornyn said. The PROTECT Act is endorsed by the Fraternal Order of Police, National Sheriffs’ Association, Major County Sheriff’s Association, National District Attorney’s Association, Polaris Project, Shared Hope International, National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, and Truckers against Trafficking. Also signing on as original cosponsors are Sens. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), and Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), and Rep. Kathleen Rice (D-N.Y.) More information on the PROTECT Act is available here. ###
02.02.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement on the release and declassification of a memo prepared by the majority members of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence regarding oversight of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). He is one of just a handful of members of Congress to have reviewed the underlying source documents for the potential FISA abuses outlined in the majority memo: “As a former U.S. Attorney and federal terrorism prosecutor with considerable FISA experience, I am more than just troubled by the revelations outlined in this memo. Subsequent to my initial review of the memo, I also reviewed, in detail, the still-classified, underlying source documents upon which the initial warrant application and all subsequent warrant renewal applications to surveil an American citizen were made. I believe the memo unfortunately but accurately highlights questionable actions and departures from required legal standards and practices under FISA by a discrete number of senior agents and officials, who appear to have allowed politics to contaminate our apolitical justice system. “It is my hope that the revelations of this memo will not be misconstrued as a condemnation of the tens of thousands of brave women and men who nobly serve the public with distinction and integrity in the DOJ and FBI. This memo can and should, however, be viewed as an appropriate expression of Congress’ oversight responsibilities of these vital institutions. Further oversight and accountability for the individuals in question is necessary to ensure that the American people can have confidence in these important institutions going forward.” ###
01.31.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement on Rep. Trey Gowdy’s (R-S.C.) announcement to leave politics and not seek reelection: “It is rare to see anyone at the top of their game simply walk away from the field on their own terms. Congratulations to my friend Trey Gowdy, who from start to finish has been the rarest of political figures — a public servant who inspires others to care more about truth and fairness than about winning. While Congress is blessed with so many talented individuals, the institution will soon be without one of its best legal minds and the best lawyer I’ve ever worked with. To his family and to the good people of South Carolina — thank you for sharing Trey Gowdy with the rest of the nation. All Americans, Republicans and Democrats alike, are better off because of it.” ###
01.30.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement on President Trump’s State of the Union address: “President Trump’s State of the Union address was bold, optimistic, and challenged Americans to come together to build upon our historic successes of 2017. The president highlighted how this past year has been a great one for the American people – unemployment is at a 17-year low, consumer confidence is at a 17-year high, American workers are seeing higher wages and bonuses, and companies are expanding. “These successes impact real people across our country just like the ones who were in attendance tonight. Folks like Corey Adams, who became a first-time home-owner thanks to tax reform. The very best of the American spirit was also on display. The family of Otto Warmbier, who died shortly after returning from North Korea where he was imprisoned, brought with them a powerful strength that inspires us all. “We have an obligation and duty to build upon the victories of President Trump’s first year in office and continue delivering results for the American people. I intend to do just that, and call on all my colleagues – Republicans and Democrats alike – to step up and do the same.” ###
01.22.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement on his appointment to the House Ethics Committee: “As the most influential and powerful legislative body in the world, it is imperative that the United States Congress holds itself to the highest ethical standards. The American people are rightfully sick and tired of seeing constant headlines about their elected representatives engaging in inappropriate behaviors that undermine their faith in the institution. “With this appointment to the House Ethics Committee, I intend to be firm and fair, as we work to rebuild the trust of the citizens who put us in office. My past work alongside Chairwoman Susan Brooks as U.S. attorneys makes me confident in her commitment to restoring the integrity of the People’s House, and I look forward to working with her and the rest of the Committee to deliver on this important priority.” Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) is a former U.S. attorney who served during the George W. Bush administration. He now serves the 4th Congressional District of Texas in the U.S. House of Representatives. In addition to the House Ethics Committee, he sits on the House Judiciary Committee, and chairs the House Homeland Security Committee’s Subcommittee on Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Protection. ###
01.22.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement on the end of the Democrats’ shutdown of the federal government: “Today’s vote proves that the Democrats’ political games were, indeed, in vain. Chuck Schumer should be embarrassed that he forced a ruthless government shutdown in complete disservice to our military and at-risk children, only to buckle under the rightful frustrations of the American people just three days later. The selfish attempt of Senate Democrats to prioritize amnesty for illegal aliens over our men and women in uniform accomplished nothing. I’m glad their obstructionist tactics are finally over, so we can focus on serving the citizens we were sent here to represent.” ###
01.20.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement on the Senate Democrats’ refusal to vote for House-passed legislation to keep the federal government open: “It is absolutely shameful that Senate Democrats chose to abandon the top responsibilities of the federal government by voting for a shutdown. This fails our men and woman in uniform, hurts our veterans and puts vulnerable children at risk. “My House Republican colleagues and I fulfilled our duty to avoid this mess, but now Senate Democrats are placing political gamesmanship ahead of serving the American people. Let’s not forget that, in the last year, we passed 12 appropriations bills through regular order before the Sept. 30 deadline – each of which was held up in the Senate.Make no mistake – any shutdown is the direct result of inexcusable obstructionism by Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi. America deserves better.” ###
01.11.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement on the House passage of S. 139 to reauthorize the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA): “As a former federal prosecutor who used foreign intelligence surveillance to bring terrorists to justice, I’m grateful we were able to renew this critical law enforcement tool for six more years. While this bill contains some changes I did not feel were necessary, I recognize that it’s the culmination of an extensive and transparent legislative process that included input from legislators all across the political spectrum and from the White House and Executive Branch alike. The tools we just reauthorized are critical for the safety of our homeland. They have successfully stopped terrorists like Hajji Iman and thwarted planned attacks like the 2009 attempted New York City Subway bombing. I urge my Senate colleagues not to play politics with national security and to send this bill to the president’s desk as quickly as possible.” ###
01.09.2018	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement on the House passage of H.Res. 676 in support of the people of Iran: “Today I joined my colleagues in standing with the people of Iran against the oppressive and radical regime in Tehran. We must be adamant and clear that the Iranian regime’s serious human rights abuses, corruption and support of terrorist groups like Hezbollah absolutely will not be tolerated. Unlike the Obama administration, we refuse to turn our backs on the Iranian regime’s destabilizing practices and disrespect for the human rights, civil liberties and free speech of its people. We fully support the brave Iranian people who are protesting these heinous actions.” As a former federal terrorism prosecutor and member of the House Homeland Security Committee, Ratcliffe has led efforts in Congress against state sponsors of terrorism. Last month, Ratcliffe led a coalition of House lawmakers in calling on the Justice Department (DOJ) to investigate the Obama administration’s actions to thwart the arrest and prosecution of individuals running drug trafficking and money laundering operations to fund Hezbollah. Following the announcement of this effort, the Trump administration formally launched an investigation into the matter. The full letter sent to the DOJ is available here. ###
12.29.2017	Reps. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) and Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) appeared on Fox News' Ingraham Angle Thursday with Jason Chaffetz to discuss their work on the House Judiciary and House Oversight Committees to look into the many abnormalities stemming from DOJ and FBI decisions in 2016 – including the handling of the Clinton email investigation. Click here to watch the interview​ with Ratcliffe and Gowdy Ratcliffe and Gowdy recently interviewed FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe about the many outstanding questions surrounding these decisions. The lawmakers said they are committed to conducting appropriate Congressional oversight to ensure the integrity of the DOJ and FBI is properly restored. ###
12.22.2017	Reps. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas), Martha McSally (R-Ariz.) and Robert Pittenger (R-N.C.) will call on the Justice Department (DOJ) to investigate the Obama administration’s actions to thwart the arrest and prosecution of individuals running drug trafficking and money laundering operations to fund Hezbollah. “Obama’s nuclear deal with Iran was a bad deal in itself – and new revelations of the illicit actions that were ignored to secure it are even worse. Unsurprisingly, the Obama administration put politics ahead of justice at the expense of national security. We’ve got to ensure that painfully misguided decisions like this won’t ever happen again,” Ratcliffe said. “Recently uncovered evidence points very directly to a disturbing conclusion: that the Obama administration intentionally shielded the Iran-backed terrorist group, Hezbollah, from an ongoing investigation in order to secure the deeply flawed Iran Deal,” said Rep. McSally. “The American people deserve to know whether their President did indeed pick his political agenda over the safety of our country and our allies, allowing the world’s most dangerous terrorist group to continue to launder money and traffic illicit drugs to fuel their violence. This letter calls for an investigation into these incriminating facts. Our national security depends on it.” “Hezbollah is one of the most ruthless terrorist organizations in the world. The allegations that Obama’s administration derailed a major investigation into this barbaric terror group in order to secure the deeply flawed Iran Nuclear deal are shocking and infuriating. We need to get to the bottom of this. The American people deserve to know the truth,” Pittenger said. The call for an investigation comes on the heels a report released this week that the Obama administration undermined Project Cassandra, a Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) campaign to target Hezbollah’s drug trafficking operations. Despite evidence that Hezbollah was running a $1-billion-a-year drug and weapons trafficking operation, laundering money and engaging in other criminal activities, Obama administration officials didn’t file criminal charges for fear of jeopardizing the prospects of securing the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action or “Iran Nuclear Deal.” The lawmakers, along with 18 of their colleagues, will formally call on the DOJ to launch an investigation to answer several questions surrounding the matter in January. The full text of the letter is available here or below. January 2, 2018 The Honorable Jeff Sessions Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 Dear Attorney General Sessions, We are deeply disturbed by recent reports that illustrate the Obama Administration’s efforts to undermine Project Cassandra, a Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) campaign to target drug trafficking operations by the Iranian-backed terrorist group Hezbollah. We applaud your December 22nd decision to order a review of these allegations and write to inquire about the steps your Justice Department will take to address the consequences of this misguided decision. As you know, in 2008, the DEA found evidence that Hezbollah expanded its operations into drug trafficking and other criminal activities. Over the next eight years, DEA Agents used every tool in their disposal to track Hezbollah’s illicit networks, culminating in the opportunity to file criminal charges against individuals and entities that profited from drug trafficking. Unfortunately, the Obama Administration allegedly instituted several roadblocks to prevent holding Hezbollah accountable for fear of jeopardizing the prospects of securing the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (“Iran Nuclear Deal”) with the Iranian regime. According to testimony presented to the House Foreign Affairs Committee, by an Obama-era Treasury official, Katherine Bauer, “under the Obama administration … these [Hezbollah-related] investigations were tamped down for fear of rocking the boat with Iran and jeopardizing the nuclear deal.” Contrary to the narrative of proponents of the Iran Nuclear Deal that the agreement would change Iran’s behavior, Iran has responded by continuing its destabilizing foreign policy activities, while its proxy, Hezbollah, continues to provide weapons and training to anti-American militias. The result is the further undermining of America’s national security interests, the safety of the American people, and the security of our allies – including Israel. Given the Trump Administration’s desire to hold the Iranian regime and its proxies accountable, we urge you to conduct a full investigation into the decision-making of the Obama Administration Justice Department as it relates to Project Cassandra. As you conduct this investigation, several questions remain: Are you aware that the Obama Justice Department declined DEA requests to file criminal charges against Abdallah Safieddine, Hezbollah’s Envoy to Iran? Are you aware that the Obama Justice Department declined DEA requests to file criminal charges against the Lebanese Canadian Bank and its associates? Which individual(s) within the Obama Justice Department were responsible for delaying prosecutions of key Hezbollah entities in the hope of securing Iran’s approval of the Iran Nuclear Deal? If that guidance or directive came from outside the Justice Department, who and where did it come from? What steps will your Justice Department take to ensure improved interagency cooperation to address the Hezbollah threat moving forward? We respectfully request answers to these questions in writing as well as a briefing on this matter at your earliest convenience. The security of the United States and the safety of the American people and our allies depend on a thorough investigation and corrective action to ensure that the Obama Administration’s misguided policy is never implemented again. We appreciate your prompt consideration and look forward to your response on this matter. Our national security depends upon it. Sincerely, ###
12.19.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) voted today for the passage of the final version of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1) in the U.S. House of Representatives. As the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan’s presidency, the bill will create bigger paychecks, spur job creation and knock the legs out from under Obamacare. President Trump is anticipated to sign it into law shortly. “This is a historic accomplishment for our country. More than three decades in the making, the bill we just passed took our outdated, uncompetitive and overreaching tax code, and turned it upside down. Today we restored our confidence in the ingenuity of the American people and said no to a ‘Washington knows best’ attitude.” “I was honored for the chance to have a seat at the table during our historic passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and believe this is a Christmas present all Americans can be proud of.” In addition to creating nearly 1 million jobs nationwide, the bill is expected to create close to 80,000 jobs in Texas. It is also projected to allow the average middle-class family of four in Texas to take home an extra $2,600 each year. By doubling the standard deduction for individuals and families, this legislation will create a zero percent tax bracket of up to $24,000 for families all across the country. Significant pro-growth, pro-family provisions include: Repealing Obamacare’s individual mandate that overwhelmingly penalizes low- and middle-income Americans Doubling the child tax credit from $1,000 to $2,000 per child Reducing taxes on small-business job creators to the lowest level in decades Maintaining the adoption tax credit and charitable donation deduction Lowering the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent Click here for more information on the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. ###
12.18.2017	Reps. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas), Lee Zeldin (R-N.Y.) and Mia Love (R-Utah) submitted a letter to House leadership today calling for an inquiry into the improper public communication of information by members of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) regarding the investigation into the alleged Russian meddling in the 2016 election. “We write to you to address serious concerns regarding the integrity of investigations currently being undertaken by the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI). Improper release of information to the media by committee members or staff is a serious violation of committee and House rules,” the letter said. “Significant evidence that serious leaks have occurred in relation to the HPSCI investigation into alleged Russian meddling of the 2016 election must be immediately addressed. Members or staff who may have violated rules by leaking sensitive information to the press or other outside entities must be promptly removed from this investigation and proper inquiries undertaken without delay.” Click here to view the full letter. ###
12.14.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) released the following statement on the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) vote to reverse Obama-era “net neutrality” regulations through FCC Chairman Ajit Pai’s Restoring Internet Freedom Order: “The Obama administration’s decision to classify broadband Internet access as a Title II utility was a classic case of a “solution in search of a problem” as it imposed burdensome regulations that stifled innovation and ultimately hurt consumer choice. I support Chairman Pai’s order to reverse this decision, and I agree that a light-touch regulatory framework buttressed with reasonable antitrust protections is the best path forward.” ###
12.12.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) voted today for the passage of the Community Institution Mortgage Relief Act of 2017 (H.R. 3971) in the U.S. House of Representatives. This bill will reduce compliance costs for smaller community financial institutions by exempting them from certain escrow or impound requirements. Specifically, H.R. 3971 requires the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau (CFPB) to increase the escrow asset threshold to $25 billion. It also prevents the CFPB’s mortgage loan servicing and escrow requirements from being imposed on servicers of 30,000 or fewer mortgage loans. “As one of the most vocal critics in Congress of the CFPB’s overregulation, I’m incredibly grateful for the progress being made to unwind the burdens being imposed on smaller community financial institutions across the country,” Ratcliffe said. “By peeling away the vast layers of red tape that were put in place by the Obama-era CFPB, we’re ensuring consumers have access to mortgage credit and that small banks and credit unions won’t be run out of business due to unnecessary compliance costs.” ###
12.11.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas), chairman of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Protection, praised the House passage of legislation to reorganize the National Protection and Programs Directorate (NPPD) at DHS on Monday. The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency Act of 2017 (H.R. 3359) passed unanimously to rename and authorize the NPPD as the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA). It aims to elevate the cybersecurity and infrastructure missions of the nation’s lead civilian cybersecurity agency through the enhanced flexibility provided by the newly established structure of CISA. “One of my primary goals as a lawmaker is to be a productive steward of our country’s cybersecurity posture, and this stems from a fundamental obligation to safeguard the American people. By authorizing the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency within DHS, we’re establishing the structure, the nomenclature and the flexibility we need to ensure we’re successfully achieving this goal,” Ratcliffe said. “We’re considering this legislation at a time of great transition and opportunity for DHS, where cybersecurity expert, Kirstjen Nielsen, recently took the helm. We owe it to her, and the dedicated men and women working alongside her, to ensure DHS has the proper organization and resources to carry out its mission as the lead civilian cybersecurity agency in the federal government.” ###
12.06.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) voted today for the passage of the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act (H.R. 38) in the U.S. House of Representatives. “Texas’ 4th District shares a border with three other states, and I’m committed to making sure the law-abiding concealed carry permit holders I represent aren’t restricted from lawfully carrying their concealed firearms just because they cross state lines,” Ratcliffe said. “The passage of the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act is a huge win on behalf of the Second Amendment, and I’m grateful we’re taking strides to ensure this right is always respected.” H.R. 38 implements concealed carry reciprocity across state lines by ensuring that law-abiding citizens who have a valid concealed carry license in one state are able to legally carry their concealed firearm in any other state that allows concealed carry ###
12.05.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) released the following statement on the nomination of Kirstjen Nielsen as Secretary of Homeland Security: "I'd like to congratulate Kirstjen Nielsen for being confirmed as the Secretary of Homeland Security. From cybersecurity to radical Islamist extremism, we live in a world of rapidly evolving threats, and I’m grateful for the wealth of experience Ms. Nielsen brings to this position. In addition to her previous experience at DHS under multiple administrations, Kirstjen’s work as a fellow at George Washington University’s Center for Cyber and Homeland Security, as well as her strong focus on critical infrastructure protection, cybersecurity and emergency preparedness, make me confident in her ability to carry out DHS’ important mission. As Chairman of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Protection, I look forward to working with her to help safeguard our nation.” ###
12.01.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) announced today a team of Rockwall-Heath High School students as the winners of the 2017 Congressional App Challenge for Texas’ 4th District. The winning team included Mikey Bess, Kyle Jackson, Jonathan Payne Jr. and Thomas Starnes, who worked together to create an app called “Iron Clad Cooking Competition.” “I’d like to congratulate Mikey, Kyle, Jonathan and Thomas for winning this year’s Congressional App Challenge in our district and encourage them to continue pursuing their interest in computer science and app design,” Ratcliffe said. “As a cybersecurity chairman in Congress, I often talk about the importance of building our cyber workforce – and the work that went into creating the Iron Clad Cooking Competition app is exactly the type of skillset we’re trying to develop in young folks all across the country.” The app is a video game that was made for entertainment purposes and is geared toward a broad audience. It was designed using an Unreal Engine blueprint editor and C++ programming. It is a 2D platform game with a heavy emphasis on maneuverability. The game features a chef who navigates a food-themed course that was originally drawn by hand, then traced and animated digitally on Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator. It also features a custom 20-Century jazz-themed soundtrack that was produced on MuseScore. The Congressional App Challenge is a prestigious national competition that engages students’ creativity and encourages their participation in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education fields. High school students in each congressional district across the country are invited to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. ###
11.16.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) voted today for the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1) in the U.S. House of Representatives. As the biggest reform of our tax code since 1986, this bill will create bigger paychecks, create more jobs and allow 9 out of 10 Americans to file taxes on a postcard. “I’ve heard far too many of the hard-working Northeast Texans I represent tell me about how our overly complex and convoluted tax code makes it tough or nearly impossible for them to support their families or grow their businesses,” Ratcliffe said. “The passage of our House Republican tax reform bill will finally offer them the relief they deserve, and I was proud to support it as a measure that truly provides a strong dose of the fiscally conservative values for Washington that have allowed Texas’ economy to thrive.” In addition to creating nearly 1 million jobs nationwide, the legislation will create more than 80,000 jobs in Texas and allow middle-class families in the state of Texas to take home an extra $2,600 each year. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act also maintains the current tax rate for millionaires to ensure that lower and middle-income families are given maximum relief. Other pro-growth, pro-family provisions include: Increasing the child tax credit from $1,000 to $1,600 per child Reducing small business tax rates to as low as 9 percent Eliminating the Alternative Minimum Tax and “Death Tax” Simplifying tax filing by doubling the standard deduction for couples and individuals Maintaining the adoption tax credit and charitable donation credit For more information on the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, please visit: fairandsimple.gop. ###
11.16.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) chaired a House Homeland Security Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Committee hearing this week that shed light on effective cyber threat information sharing practices needed to bolster America’s national security. The hearing confirmed that DHS’ info sharing programs are providing value and continue to grow in adoption and sophistication, sustained oversight and incremental improvements are necessary to ensure the potential value of this sharing is maximized. “If we’re going to have any chance of keeping up with the rapidly increasing cyber threats we face on a daily basis, it’s absolutely critical that the public and private sectors are sharing cyber threat indicators in the most efficient way possible,” Ratcliffe said. “With an actual reach of more than 10,000 organizations, it’s clear that AIS (the Automated Indicator Sharing program) is an extremely powerful tool when we put it to work the right way. That’s why we must continue working to ensure we are leveraging it to its full potential.” The witnesses included key private sector cybersecurity experts from a variety of fields, including banking and telecommunications, who have actively participated in information sharing programs. “(AIS) would be more effective for more mature organizations in the broader critical infrastructure community if it offered three key things: timelier indicator sharing, richer context around indicator information and continual improvements to the program to ensure quality information,” said the Vice President of Cyber Intel & Incident Response for American Express, Ann Barron-Dicamillo, Patricia Cagliostro, Federal Solutions Architect Manager for Anomali, went further, adding that organizations must keep in mind the state of threat intelligence. “Organizations in both the public and private sector need tools to manage and integrate the overwhelming amount of threat intelligence before they’re ready to share. When they are ready to share, trust and ease of use are critical for success,” she said. Click here for the full list of witnesses and their written testimony. ###
11.14.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe’s (R-Texas) questioning of Attorney General Jeff Sessions today confirmed the need to restore trust in the DOJ due to a string of Obama-era missteps. During the exchange, which occurred under oath during a House Judiciary Committee hearing, Sessions confirmed the following in response to Ratcliffe’s questions: It would be a “terminatable offense” for the current FBI Director to give a press conference on the status and thought process of an ongoing investigation, and FBI Director Christopher Wray would “never” do this. The prosecutors or investigators working under Sessions are not engaging in predetermination of any active cases at the DOJ. It “would not be a normal process” for immunized witnesses to sit in on interviews as private counsel during federal investigations with the subject or target of that very same investigation. Sessions’ answers draw a stark contrast to a number of decisions made by the DOJ under former Attorney General Loretta Lynch that have been called into question. In response, Ratcliffe said that these circumstances highlight the immense “shadow of doubt” cast over the DOJ during the Obama administration, reaffirming the need to restore the American people’s trust in the agency. While our country can remain resilient under bad presidencies, Ratcliffe said, it cannot endure the erosion of trust in the DOJ and the FBI to fairly investigate and prosecute violations of the rule of law. “The Department of Justice must always transcend politics to uphold the rule of law,” Ratcliffe said. Sessions agreed and said he was committed to leading the DOJ in restoring the trust and confidence that was lost under the previous administration. “There is danger out there, and we want to fix it,” Sessions said. Ratcliffe is a former United States Attorney who has led the charge in Congress to highlight and correct the irregularities stemming from the DOJ and FBI’s decisions in 2016. Earlier this year, Ratcliffe and his colleagues sent two letters to the DOJ calling for the appointment of a second special counsel to investigate outstanding questions relating to DOJ decisions in 2016. (Click here to view the July letter and here to view the September letter). In response, the DOJ confirmed this week that Sessions directed three senior federal prosecutors to evaluate the lawmakers’ points of concern, and then make their recommendations on whether any matters already under investigation require further resources or the appointment of a special counsel. In 2016, Ratcliffe’s questioning of Comey under oath revealed troubling disconnects that have prompted calls for further oversight and investigation into how the Clinton email investigation was conducted. Comey’s answer to Ratcliffe that he made his decision not to recommend charges against Clinton “after” interviewing her is contradicted by more recent reports that an “exoneration memo” was drafted about two months earlier, before 17 key witnesses, including Clinton, were interviewed. ###
11.13.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) announced today James “Jamie” Baker as his new director of public policy based out of his Sherman office. He will be serving Grayson, Fannin and Collin counties, replacing Kathleen Connor, who recently became the director of resource development for the United Way of Grayson County. Baker is a Harleton, Texas native who brings close to a decade of public policy experience with him to Texas’ 4th District. He previously served as Ratcliffe’s senior legislative assistant in Washington, D.C., handling a broad portfolio of issues, including education, healthcare, taxes, energy, telecommunications, homeland security and appropriations. “Jamie has done great work for the people of Texas’ 4th District during his time on my team – leading the charge on our efforts against Obama’s assault on affordable energy, reining in irresponsible federal spending, combatting the rising terrorist threats, and more,” Ratcliffe said. “We’re incredibly excited to have Jamie back in Northeast Texas, where he can put this deep policy experience to work on the ground level as our new director of public policy. I’m confident he’ll make a huge impact in our ongoing efforts to ensure the needs of our constituents are being met through the work being done in Washington, D.C.” As Ratcliffe’s director of public policy, Baker will engage with constituents and organizations throughout Texas’ 4th District, while serving as a link between the needs of the district and Washington, D.C. staff for local issues. “It’s been an honor to serve on Congressman Ratcliffe’s team in our nation’s capital, but I’ve got to admit I’m glad to be back in Texas,” Baker said. “I’m looking forward to rolling up my sleeves and getting to work on legislative solutions that will tackle the real-life challenges we’re facing in Northeast Texas every single day. It’s my hope to provide an ‘ear to the ground’ throughout all 18 counties by engaging with local leaders, small business owners and all the great, hardworking people we’re committed to serving in this region.” Prior to joining Ratcliffe’s Washington, D.C. staff, Baker worked for Rep. Michael Burgess (R-Denton), and as an aide in the George W. Bush administration. He obtained a Master of Professional Studies in Political Management from George Washington University, and a Bachelor of Arts in Government from the University of Texas at Austin. ###
11.02.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe’s (R-Texas) Strengthening State and Local Cyber Crime Fighting Act of 2017 (H.R. 1616) was signed into law today by President Trump. The law provides state and local law enforcement with the tools and training they need to combat cybercrime and protect our communities. It has been hailed as a major win for law enforcement and for America’s cybersecurity posture. “I’d like to thank President Trump for his strong support of my bill to ensure our state and local law enforcement officials are properly equipped to address and prosecute crimes in the 21st century – because we’re now in an era where almost every case involves some sort of digital evidence,” Ratcliffe said. “At the end of the day, getting the upper hand against cyber criminals will make our nation safer, and I’m glad that this critical piece of legislation has been signed into law to do just that.” H.R. 1616 authorizes the National Computer Forensics Institute (NCFI) in Hoover, Ala., which is widely recognized as the premier cybercrime training center for law enforcement officials from across the country. The NCFI has trained close to 7,000 local officials from all 50 states and three U.S. territories. Its graduates represent more than 2,000 agencies nationwide, including multiple agencies in Texas’ 4th District. Ratcliffe chaired a field hearing in 2016 where an NCFI graduate testified to its enormous impact, and he recently visited the center to engage with its instructors and staff. Ratcliffe is Chairman of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Protection. As the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Texas during the George W. Bush administration, Ratcliffe was the top law enforcement officer for a 33,000-square-mile area. In Congress, he’s remained a leading voice on law enforcement and cybersecurity issues. ###
11.02.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement on the release of the House Republican tax reform bill, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1): “I’m proud to support the largest tax overhaul and middle class tax relief America has seen since Ronald Reagan’s presidency. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act released today puts more money back into the wallets of hardworking American families while spurring job creation and vastly simplifying our complex tax code. Those are priorities I believe all Americans can support. “Here’s the bottom line: this legislation will reduce taxes for your typical middle class family of four by $1,200 per year. Tax rates on millionaires will stay exactly the same to ensure that we maximize relief for those who need it the most. “We’ve already seen the far-left’s intellectually dishonest arguments about this bill debunked. In fact, the Washington Post, while traditionally not very sympathetic to conservative causes, gave four ‘Pinocchios’ to the claim that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act won’t help the middle class. “Wholesale reform to a broken system is naturally going to be met with strong opposition to those who benefit from the status quo. After all, there’s a reason tax reform of this magnitude hasn’t happened in more than 30 years. But rest assured that I will do everything in my power to push this across the finish line – because my constituents and the American people deserve nothing less. “Over the coming weeks, there will likely be several changes and tweaks to a few provisions of the bill. I’m committed to staying engaged in this process to deliver the best possible deal to the American people. After eight crushing years of the Obama administration’s fiscal recklessness, I’m confident that better days are on the horizon for our country.” ###
11.01.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement on President Trump’s nomination of Grayson County District Attorney Joe Brown to be the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Texas: “I commend President Trump for nominating Joe Brown as the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Texas. I’ve been in constant contact with Senators Cruz and Cornyn over the past several months to provide input on this nomination. I firmly believe that Joe will serve our region with high integrity and a strong commitment to the rule of law, and I’m hopeful the Senate will move quickly to confirm him to this post.” ###
10.19.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) and Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) penned an op-ed on the VA Information Technology Restructuring Act, which they introduced in the House and Senate. The bill establishes that a Chief Information Officer (CIO) be appointed to the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) to modernize outdated software, and provide necessary oversight regarding the procurement, acquisition and management of the VHA's IT systems. Read the op-ed in its entirety here and below: Health care system for our veterans still isn't good enough The Dallas Morning News By: Sen. Ted Cruz & Rep. John Ratcliffe October 19, 2017 Three years ago, our country awoke to the grim reality that our Veterans Administration health care system had become so deeply flawed that many of our nation's heroes had died while waiting to receive care. With their names buried on secret waiting lists, it became evident that the VA system was more concerned about protecting the bureaucracy than caring for our veterans. In the wake of these horrifying revelations, Congress began the arduous task of enacting reforms aimed at shifting the culture within the VA to no longer tolerate the mismanagement and corruption that imperiled so many veterans' lives. While some progress has been made, ongoing reports of the VA's shortcomings reinforce that much more needs to be done. Numerous hearings, investigations and aggressive oversight by Congress revealed areas that required attention and were preventing veterans from getting the quality, timely care they deserve. These efforts initially led to the passage of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014, which established the Veterans Choice Program and the Commission on Care. By empowering our veterans to have more control over their care, Congress took the first step in prioritizing our veterans over the VA bureaucracy. Unfortunately, the program has been plagued by poor implementation and fails to deliver the true choice for veterans as Congress intended. More recently, Congress and President Donald Trump have worked together to enact a variety of important measures to continue taking steps to improve the culture at the VA and the care for our veterans. Some common-sense efforts include increased authority for the VA to hold employees accountable when they fall short of their responsibilities, to protect whistleblowers, and to extend financial certainty to the Veterans Choice Program. But in March of last year, we were alarmed to learn that seven of 12 reports released by the VA Office of Inspector General contained instances of scheduling mismanagement that had led to extended veteran wait times at the VA Health Care Systems in Texas. Due to a variety of factors including poor training, lack of supervision and non-centralized systems, issues such as data manipulation, improper scheduling and flawed record-keeping were able to grow rampant in our own home state, to the detriment of our veterans who need us the most. While there is no silver bullet to fix the VA's struggles, we can, and must, continue taking steps in the right direction. This is why we introduced the VA IT Restructuring Act in both the House and Senate. Our legislation homes in on the problems that stem from the Veterans Health Administration's outdated software by appointing a chief information officer to oversee its modernization. By centralizing oversight and planning of the IT systems, we can avoid the mishaps that emerged due to the lack of an experienced, senior health care leader at the VHA who is focused on IT management. The Commission's Final Report stated "it is essential for VHA to have a CIO with health care expertise and substantial experience." We must and will continue our collective efforts alongside the Trump administration to ensure continued improvement of care for veterans, not just here in Texas, but all across the country. ###
10.12.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) released the following statement on President Trump’s intent to nominate Kirstjen Nielsen for the position of Secretary of Homeland Security: “I’m very pleased President Trump selected Kirstjen Nielsen as the nominee for Secretary of Homeland Security. From cybersecurity to radical Islamist extremism, we live in a world of rapidly evolving threats, and I’m grateful for the wealth of experience Ms. Nielsen brings to this position. In addition to her previous experience at DHS under multiple administrations, Kirstjen’s work as a fellow at George Washington University’s Center for Cyber and Homeland Security, as well as her strong focus on critical infrastructure protection, cybersecurity and emergency preparedness, make me confident in her ability to carry out DHS’ important mission. As Chairman of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Protection, I look forward to working together with Kirstjen over the coming years to help safeguard our nation.” ###
10.04.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) released the following statement on reports that the IRS awarded a $7.2 million sole source contract to Equifax after knowledge surfaced about the company’s data breach that compromised the personally identifiable information of at least 145 million Americans: “A multi-million dollar contract with a company that just recently displayed cybersecurity negligence of epic proportions is significantly degrading to public trust. I urge DHS in the strongest possible terms to consider using the authorities granted from FISMA and the Cybersecurity Act to address this troubling development. Americans place their faith in federal agencies – the IRS most certainly included – to safeguard vast amounts of their highly sensitive personal information. As the lead civilian cybersecurity agency, DHS should play an important role in ensuring federal agencies engage in responsible cybersecurity behavior, so we can maintain the confidence of the American people.” ###
10.03.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) chaired a House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Protection hearing today to examine how the National Protection and Programs Directorate (NPPD) is carrying out the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) cybersecurity mission. “We have to get this right because new technologies – the internet of things, driverless cars, artificial intelligence, and quantum computing – are rapidly evolving,” Ratcliffe said. “We need to be securing at the speed of innovation – not of bureaucracy. Because we are in an era that requires flexibility, resiliency and discipline, and I hope I will hear those values operationalized in the forthcoming testimony.” In the hearing, the Subcommittee heard from top NPPD officials, including Christopher Krebs and Jeanette Manfra from DHS, as well as Patricia Hoffman from the Energy Department. The witnesses reaffirmed NPPD’s ongoing commitment to securing and defending federal networks and facilities, identifying and mitigating critical infrastructure’s systemic risks, and incentivizing and broadly enabling enhanced cyber and physical security practices. They went on to highlight NPPD’s work in response to global cyber incidents, such as the “WannaCry” ransomware incident and the “NotPetya” malware incident earlier this year. As a precaution, NPPD helped stakeholders identify vulnerabilities on their networks and shared additional mitigation guidance to assist networks before these incidents occurred. Then, as these incidents unfolded, NPPD worked with interagency partners to provide situational awareness, information sharing, malware analysis, and technical assistance to affected parties, witnesses said. The hearing also included discussion about agencies’ planned use of NPPD reorganization legislation (H.R. 3359), which passed in Homeland Security Committee earlier this year to further advance DHS’ cybersecurity mission. Krebs confirmed the importance of this legislation and encouraged swift action to advance it in the full House and Senate. “If enacted, this bill would mature and streamline NPPD, and rename our organization to clearly reflect our essential mission and our role in securing cyberspace. The Department strongly supports this much-needed effort and encourages swift action by the full House and the Senate,” he said. Manfra agreed and said, “A name for our organization that reflects our mission is essential to our workforce recruitment efforts and effective stakeholder engagement. We must also ensure that NPPD is appropriately organized to address cybersecurity threats both now and in the future, and we appreciate this Committee’s leadership.” ###
09.28.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) recognized the Megyesi family of Fate, Texas this week as the 2017 Angels in Adoption honorees for Texas’ 4th District. The Megyesis were selected for their extraordinary perseverance in adopting two young children who were orphaned after the 2010 earthquake in Haiti. “Most folks in the local community already know Lorne as the mayor of Fate, but they might not know about the 5 ½-year journey he and his wife, Tonya, embarked upon to adopt Tia and Kensley from Haiti,” Ratcliffe said. “Although there were many unforeseen roadblocks and difficulties along the way, the Megyesis’ perseverance in adoption has changed the lives of two wonderful children, and I’m grateful that the Angels in Adoption Program gives us the opportunity to highlight their story as an inspiration to others.” Mr. and Mrs. Megyesi traveled to Washington this week to participate in a series of events put on by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute, which hosts the Angels in Adoption honorees each year to recognize their contribution to adoption and child welfare and to allow them to engage with other folks with similar experiences. Upon receiving a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol from Ratcliffe while on their visit, the Megyesis had a message for others considering adoption. “It’s so important that we start seeing children not as being in a foster care system, but as children waiting for people who say: I want to help,” Mrs. Megyesi said. Mr. Megyesi agreed and said, “Listen to that small, still voice inside of you. That’s God telling you, ‘this is what you need to do.’ Step up in faith, and God will make all things work out – that’s what he did in our situation.” ###
09.26.2017	House Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Protection Subcommittee Chairman John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) released the following statement on Equifax’s decision not to take advantage of DHS’ Automated Indicator Sharing program prior to the massive data breach that exposed millions of its customers’ personal information: “I find it troubling that Equifax did not take advantage of DHS’ Automated Indicator Sharing program that enables the exchange of cyber threat indicators between the private sector and government at machine speed. While there is no silver bullet when it comes to cybersecurity, when your responsibility as an organization is to safeguard hundreds of millions of records that contain Americans’ personal information, taking advantage of all tools available to best understand the evolving threat landscape seems prudent.” ###
09.22.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) launched the 2017-2018 Congressional Student Leadership Program (CSLP) this week. The program includes nearly 50 high school participants from across Texas’ 4th District. The CSLP students gathered for their first meeting of the 2017-2018 school year in three physical locations: Rockwall, Texarkana, and Sherman. CSLP Students Meet at Grayson County Courthouse Ratcliffe kicked off the meeting with a video message from Washington. “As our country looks to the future, we’re going to need bright young leaders like all of you. Great young men and women who are willing to step up and who can ensure America continues to be the beacon of freedom and opportunity for the rest of the world,” Ratcliffe said. “I’m so impressed with what many of you have already accomplished, and I’m even more grateful that you’ve all taken advantage of this opportunity to go above and beyond many of your peers to learn about the role of the federal government and to discuss the important public policy issues facing our country.” The students went on to learn about the functions of the federal government as defined by the U.S. Constitution, which laid the foundation for further in-depth policy discussions later in the school year. There will be three more CSLP meetings in the 2017-2018 school year, as well as a district-wide service project aimed at helping local veterans in November. The CSLP aims to teach high school students in Texas’ 4th District about the role of the federal government and functions of a congressional office, while allowing them to engage with their congressman and discuss public policy issues affecting our country. Participants are selected based on their academic achievement, extracurricular involvement and demonstration of leadership. Applications 2018-2019 school year will be available in the spring of 2018. Further details on the CSLP are available online at: ratcliffe.house.gov/congressional-student-leadership-program, and additional questions may be directed to Cole Moore at 972-771-0100 or cole.moore@mail.house.gov. ###
09.08.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) released the following statement on his vote for the passage of the Hurricane Harvey relief package: “I just voted to provide desperately needed relief funding for Hurricane Harvey. This is the beginning of a long process to rebuild the homes, lives and communities that have been devastated by this unprecedented natural disaster. But make no mistake – I’m bitterly disappointed by the fact that my only way to help my fellow Texans, some still in waist-deep waters, was to have my compassionate vote tied to a short-term raising of our federal debt ceiling. A once-in-1,000-year hurricane should be met with historic levels of compassion and support, not heightened political gamesmanship and legislative tricks. The House of Representatives approached this correctly. We swiftly passed a standalone funding package for Hurricane Harvey relief by a 419 to 3 margin. The Senate’s inability to do the same is deeply troubling for all the people of Texas and Louisiana whose lives depend on our response, and it’s my hope that ongoing relief efforts over the coming months and years can focus purely on helping those in need.” ###
09.07.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) chaired a cybersecurity hearing today that examined successful cyber workforce recruitment and retention strategies from leaders in the private sector, which may be utilized at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). “It’s no secret that both the public and private sectors are facing an unprecedented shortage of cybersecurity workers across all skill sets – from front-line defenders to CISOs – a problem that will only continue to grow,” Ratcliffe said. “While DHS faces some unique challenges that are specific to the federal government – such as slow hiring processes and limited funding – private sector hiring and retention best practices are still incredibly valuable for the federal government. That’s why it’s important to engage with the folks who’ve successfully dealt with our shared challenges already, determine how we can learn from their experience and expertise, then translate that over to the public sector.” The witnesses included Executive Director of the Darwin Deason Institute for Cyber Security at Southern Methodist University (SMU), Dr. Frederick R. Chang; Vice President and Chief Technical Strategist at McAffe, Scott Montgomery; Vice President and Chief Information Security Officer of Northrop Grumman, Dr. Michael Papay; and Strategic Advisory Board Member for the International Consortium of Minority Cybersecurity Professionals, Juliet “Jules” Okafor. Papay emphasized the benefits to be gained by continually challenging cyber employees through opportunities for growth and movement within the company, as well as offering opportunities for further education or renewed certification. “We move them around inside the company from customer to customer, tough problem to tough problem. We utilize rotational programs that expose and train our cyber workforce in defending our network, enabling our customers’ missions, and supporting full spectrum cyber operations,” Papay said. “We work with employees to help them create their own growth along the cyber career path, give them the time to take the training necessary to maintain their certifications, and keep their knowledge and skills fresh. We even offer educational assistance in some instances.” Papay later said he believes continued information sharing is paramount because it helps prevent cybersecurity professionals from duplicating existing efforts, allowing them to focus their resources most optimally for the organization. Witnesses also praised the positive impact of collaboration with the public sector through programs such as CyberCorps, encouraging increased mutually beneficial efforts to help bridge the cyber skills gap across the board. “As we continue addressing DHS’s cyber workforce issues – discussions like this will be critical to ensuring we address these challenges in the most effective way possible,” Ratcliffe said. “What we’re learning from conversations – coupled with the excepted service hiring authority DHS has coming down the pipes – make me very optimistic about our cyber workforce going forward.” ###
09.05.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) released the following statement on President Trump’s decision to end former President Obama’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “I support President Trump’s decision to end an unconstitutional program that was created through President Obama’s abuse of executive authority. My very first action as a member of Congress was raising one hand, placing the other on the Bible, and taking an oath to uphold and defend the Constitution. Obama’s constitutional overreach and abuse of the separation of powers has been struck down by the courts before, and I believe DACA would be no different. The constituents I’m privileged to represent want our immigration laws properly enforced and our borders secured. I remain committed to delivering upon those goals for them.” ###
09.03.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe’s (R-Texas) exchange with former FBI Director James Comey is amplifying concerns that Comey's decision not to recommend criminal charges in the Hillary Clinton email investigation was potentially predetermined. Comey’s September 2016 response to Ratcliffe before the House Judiciary Committee was brought into question when top Senate Republicans announced last week that Comey began drafting an exoneration statement in the Clinton email investigation prior to the FBI’s interview with key witnesses, including Clinton herself. However, in his exchange with Ratcliffe, Comey said, under oath, that he made the decision on his recommendation not to pursue criminal charges after the FBI’s interview with Clinton and other key witnesses: Mr. RATCLIFFE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Director, did you make the decision not to recommend criminal charges relating to classified information before or after Hillary Clinton was interviewed by the FBI on July the 2nd? Mr. COMEY. After. Mr. RATCLIFFE. Okay. Then I am going to need your help in trying to understand how that is possible. I think there are a lot of prosecutors or former prosecutors that are shaking our heads at how that could be the case. His full exchange with Comey is available here. The exchange as it relates to the potential predetermination in the Clinton email investigation has been discussed on a number of national news shows, including a Fox News Specialists segment with Ratcliffe’s former House colleague, Jason Chaffetz. Ratcliffe said that these recent revelations are rightfully concerning. “We owe it to the American people to get to the bottom of this, and I'm glad Congress is taking further action to get them the answers they deserve,” Ratcliffe said. Ratcliffe is a former U.S. Attorney who served in the Justice Department under the George W. Bush administration. He’s served on the House Judiciary Committee since January 2015. ###
08.28.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) released the following statement on President Trump’s executive order to restore police access to life-saving equipment. This move reversed the Obama administration’s restriction of access to the 1033 Program, which provides defense surplus equipment to state and local law enforcement. “President Obama’s politically motivated executive actions to block access to the 1033 Program crippled police departments’ response efforts in crisis situations – including high-water flood rescues and standoffs with armed attackers – while jeopardizing the safety of those in the line of duty. “After more than two years of fighting in Congress to restore access to the life-saving equipment provided by the 1033 Program, I’m grateful we have a partner in President Trump who recognizes the importance of giving our brave men and women in law enforcement every tool they need to keep our communities safe.” Ratcliffe has been a leading voice in Congress in support of restoring access to the 1033 Program. In March 2015, he introduced the Protecting Lives Using Surplus (PLUS) Equipment Act (H.R. 4880) to reverse President Obama’s executive actions that restricted access to the 1033 Program. The legislation was endorsed by the National Fraternal Order of Police, the National Sheriffs Association, the Major County Sheriffs’ Association and the National Association of Police Organizations. In September 2016, Ratcliffe highlighted the importance of restoring access to the 1033 Program in a House Homeland Security Committee hearing with witnesses from law enforcement agencies across the country. Earlier this year, Ratcliffe reintroduced the PLUS Equipment Act (H.R. 426) and formally called on the Trump administration to prioritize the restoration of the 1033 Program. Ratcliffe is optimistic about the passage of the PLUS Equipment Act to ensure future administrations cannot undo President Trump’s important actions in support of the 1033 Program. ###
08.22.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) released the following statement on President Trump’s visit to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Yuma Station. The visit focused on evaluating U.S. Border Patrol operational results, policy initiatives and personnel morale, as Congress and the Trump administration seek to build upon legislative efforts like Kate’s Law and the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act: “I’d like to thank the Trump administration for working closely with Congress on securing our borders and enforcing our immigration laws. After the Obama administration’s failure to protect the sovereignty and integrity of our territorial borders – which led to more crimes within our homeland and the unnecessary loss of life at the hands of criminal aliens – it’s encouraging that President Trump’s commitment to prioritizing border security has already made our country a safer place. As a member of the House Judiciary and Homeland Security committees, I look forward to continuing my work alongside the Trump administration in building upon the progress we’ve made to protect the American people.” ###
08.08.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) introduced legislation last week to help improve care for veterans. The VA IT Restructuring Act (H.R. 3640) seeks to deliver better health care services for veterans receiving treatment at the VA through the appointment of a Chief Information Officer (CIO) responsible for the procurement, acquisition and management of IT systems and services at the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). H.R. 3640 follows through on recommendations made by the Commission on Care, which was tasked with examining ways to improve the VHA’s health services by the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014. Specifically, it answers the Commission’s call to appoint a CIO at the VHA to avoid previous IT implementation failures that may have inhibited veterans’ access to care. “As the one voice in Congress for the 63,000 veterans in Texas’ 4th District, it’s my job to ensure their health care needs are properly met. This is precisely why the Commission on Care was established back in 2014 – and now it’s time to follow through with commonsense solutions that will effectively leverage technology to improve the services they receive,” Ratcliffe said. “After everything our nation’s veterans have sacrificed on behalf of our freedom, we owe it to them to work as hard as we can to ensure they receive the quality and timely care they most certainly have earned. Proper oversight of the IT systems being used at the VHA will be key to making sure we fulfill this important responsibility.” Ratcliffe’s bill is identical to the Senate version (S. 1452), which was introduced by Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) with Sens. John Cornyn (R-Texas), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) and Todd Young (R-Ind.) as original cosponsors in June. ###
07.27.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) voted Thursday for the Make America Secure Appropriations Act, 2018 (H.R. 3219), which passed the U.S. House of Representatives to enhance America’s safety through the construction of a border wall with Mexico. The bill fulfills the recent demand of a Ratcliffe-led coalition of lawmakers for the House not to begin its district work period until following through on President Trump’s request for border wall funding. “I’m pleased my colleagues stepped up to the plate and joined me in meeting President Trump’s request to prioritize our national security through the construction of a border wall with Mexico,” Ratcliffe said. “There’s no denying that inaction is simply no longer an option. The legislation we’ve just passed is long overdue, and I applaud it as a huge step forward in securing our borders once and for all.” H.R. 3219 also contains $584.2 billion in funding to restore adequate military readiness and enhance homeland security, as well as $88.8 billion in funding for veterans’ benefits and programs, and for military housing and bases in the U.S. and around the world. Additionally, H.R. 3219 contains the following notable provisions: Prevents the transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees to the United States Blocks funds from being used to assist North Korea Prohibits contractors that fail to comply with federal E-Verify requirements from receiving federal funds Forbids implementation of the Obama administration’s Waters of the United States rule Restricts the application of the Obama administration’s Clean Water Act Provides a 2.4 percent military pay raise Prohibits a pay raise for members of Congress The bill also contains Ratcliffe’s amendment to prevent funds from being used for another round of base realignment and closure (BRAC) at the Red River Army Depot. This measure will protect more than 5,000 jobs in the region that provide critical readiness capabilities to the Army. ###
07.19.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) led a coalition of 16 Members of Congress this week in urging for the House not to break for its August district work period until it passes legislation to fund the construction of a border wall with Mexico. “Protecting the American people is one of the most fundamental responsibilities of the federal government, and inaction on securing our border is no longer acceptable. We refuse to sit back idly while the can continues to be kicked down the road. One more casualty – one more life lost – is one too many. We’ve got to secure our borders now – no excuses,” Ratcliffe said. The letter was signed by Reps. Lamar Smith (R-Texas), Scott Perry (R-Pa.), Mo Brooks (R-Ala.), Jody Hice (R-Ga.), Mike Gallagher (R-Wis.), Steve King (R-Iowa), Glenn Grothman (R-Wis.), Brian Babin (R-Texas), Blake Farenthold (R-Texas), Jodey Arrington (R-Texas), Ralph Norman (S.C.), Paul Gosar (R-Ariz.), Andy Biggs (R-Ariz.), Barry Loudermilk (R-Ga.), Buddy Carter (R-Ga.) and Kevin Cramer (N.D.). The full text of the letter can be viewed below: Dear Speaker Ryan and Leader McCarthy: For decades, the American people have been told that the safety and security of our country is one of the principal responsibilities of the federal government. Unfortunately, the American people have been let down time and time again by lack of action on meaningful border security. The time for excuses has now ended; it is time for action. The perils of a porous border are far-reaching and impact everyone. Illegal aliens take jobs that would otherwise be filled by hard-working Americans and continue to strain limited public resources that should be prioritized for U.S. citizens. With over 11 million illegal aliens present in the United States, we simply cannot afford to continue kicking the can down the road on this important issue. Crimes by illegal aliens against Americans tear apart undeserving families and devastate their communities. One needs to look no further than the tragedy that took the life of Kate Steinle, a woman who was shot dead by an illegal alien who was previously deported and had illegally re-entered multiple times. Sadly, Kate’s death is not an isolated incident. Open borders also invite drug trafficking, sex trafficking, gangs, and other nefarious activity into our homeland. According to the Drug Enforcement Administration’s National Drug Threat Assessment, Mexican Transcontinental Organizations remain the greatest criminal drug threat to the United States by controlling “lucrative smuggling corridors across the U.S. Southwest Border” that “are able to introduce multi-ton quantities of illicit drugs into the United States on a yearly basis.” Additionally troubling is that rampant illegal immigration enabled by an unsecured border undermines the rule of law and trust in the legal immigration framework for those who do properly wait in line. Securing the sovereignty and integrity of our territorial borders is not optional. Rather, it is one of the key pillars of our government’s constitutionally-defined obligation to provide for the common defense. In the 2016 election, the American people stood up and demanded that we take action on this issue. We have a mandate and an obligation to follow through. Before the House departs for the upcoming district work period, we ask House Leadership to bring a bill to the floor that funds enhanced border security measures, including following through on a commitment made by President Trump: the construction of a border wall. We stand ready to roll up our sleeves and work – through August if need be – to get this done. We are all privileged to serve in the United States House of Representatives where we work for the people. Let’s make sure our actions reflect their priorities. ###
07.14.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) voted for the passage of the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which boosts support for America’s military, enhances national defense capabilities and provides a 2.4 percent pay raise for U.S. service members. The bill authorizes the $696 billion in funding necessary to restore adequate readiness for our armed forces, protect our homeland from rapidly evolving threats and provide our troops with the resources they need. “Our country is continually faced with serious threats posed by radical Islamist extremism and burgeoning nuclear powers like North Korea. This means that providing our military with the best training and defense capabilities in the world isn’t an option – it’s a necessity. The safety of the American people and the stability of the free world depend on it,” Ratcliffe said. “I’m very grateful for President Trump’s strong support for boosting our national security, as we advance our mutual goal of making America safe again.” The 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) includes the following notable provisions: Increases pay for service members by 2.4 percent while extending special pay and bonuses Prevents Guantanamo Bay detainee transfers to the United States. Combats terrorism and radical Islamist extremists Increases the size of the Army, Navy Air Force, Army Guard and Reserve, Naval and Air Reserve, and Air Guard Strengthens support for Israel with funds for Israeli cooperative missile defense, including the Iron Dome Prioritizes cybersecurity, supporting defensive and offensive cyberspace strategies Declines to authorize an additional round of Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Ratcliffe also introduced an amendment (H.Amdt. 203) to the 2018 NDAA, which passed to exempt anyone employed at the Red River Army Depot in Texarkana from being jeopardized by any future hiring freeze that may be issued by the executive branch. His amendment will bolster job security for the more than 5,000 at the Depot who provide critical readiness capabilities to the U.S. Army. “The Depot and its hard-working employees play a critical role in our national defense, and I’m committed to doing everything in my power to support its ongoing mission.” ###
06.29.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) voted for two bills that passed the U.S. House of Representatives Thursday to strengthen our nation’s immigration laws and enhance the safety of the American people: the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act (H.R. 3003) and Kate’s Law (H.R. 3004). “I’ll never forget the call I received a little over a year ago informing me that three of my constituents – Fire Captain Peter Hacking, just 39 years old, his daughter, Ellie, only 4 years old, and his son, Grayson, just 22 months old – had all been killed in a tragic car accident caused by a previously deported illegal alien,” Ratcliffe said. “The bills we just passed are about compassion – they’re about ensuring justice for the Hacking Family, and for all the victims of violent crimes that have been committed in our country due to the failure – or even outright refusal – to enforce the laws of the land.” The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act punishes states and localities for refusing to turn over criminal aliens to federal authorities by banning them from receiving certain federal funds – instead, diverting those funds to states and localities that actually comply with federal law. It also allows DHS to refuse to transfer aliens to states and localities that have failed to cooperate with federal authorities. Kate’s Law creates stronger penalties for aliens who illegally reenter the United States, and it applies even harsher penalties for those who’ve been previously convicted of crimes. It is named after Kate Steinle, who was gunned down two years ago by a five-time deported criminal illegal alien with seven prior felony convictions. “I’m glad my colleagues joined me in taking bold action to say that we will no longer tolerate the circumvention of our immigration laws, and I’m very grateful we’ve finally got an administration in the White House that’s willing to work with us – not against us – in this important fight,” Ratcliffe said. Ratcliffe is a former U.S. attorney whose work led to the arrest of more than 300 illegal aliens in a single day. In Congress, he’s continued fighting to defend the rule of law in his work on the House Judiciary Committee and House Homeland Security Committee. ###
06.16.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement in response to the Trump administration’s announcement that it would rescind DAPA, a program created unilaterally by former President Obama in 2014, which sought to allow millions of unlawful immigrants to remain in the United States. “I commend DHS Secretary Kelly for unwinding Obama’s unilateral actions on immigration, which waged an assault on the Constitution and rule of law. This is the very reason I introduced the Executive Amnesty Prevention Act within my first few months in Congress, and I’m very pleased the Trump administration is working to ensure that we aren’t rewarding the circumvention of our immigration laws.” Ratcliffe is a former U.S. attorney whose work led to the arrest of more than 300 illegal aliens in a single day. In 2015, he introduced the Executive Amnesty Prevention Act (H.R. 1715) to reverse former President Obama’s executive action to circumvent Congress in granting amnesty to up to 5 million illegal immigrants. ###
06.08.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) voted to undo sweeping regulations enacted under the Dodd-Frank law, which was signed by President Obama in 2010. The Financial CHOICE Act (H.R. 10) passed the U.S. House of Representatives to dismantle Dodd-Frank and open the door for economic growth. “Since Dodd-Frank was passed by a Democratic Congress back in 2010 as a knee-jerk reaction to the financial crisis – it’s been wreaking havoc on the people of Texas’ 4th District and all across the country,” Ratcliffe said. “I was proud to join my conservative House colleagues in passing our Republican plan to revitalize our economy through less government and more freedom. The bill we just passed says goodbye to the suffocating overreach of government mandates and unelected bureaucrats, and it comes to the rescue of Main Street America.” The Financial CHOICE Act chops down the layers of red tape that Dodd-Frank imposed on farmers, business owners, community bankers and families, and it replaces them with conservative reforms. It also knocks the legs out from under Elizabeth Warren’s Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), which was created by Title X of Dodd-Frank, by bringing it under proper congressional oversight. Ratcliffe has been a leading voice in Congress about reining in the CFPB’s overreach. Key elements of the Financial CHOICE Act include: Allowing banks with sufficiently high capital reserves to be exempt from unnecessary burdens imposed by Dodd-Frank Stopping taxpayer bailouts of financial institutions by ending the notion that companies can be “too big to fail” Enhancing penalties for fraud and deception to hold Wall Street accountable Subjecting financial regulators to enhanced oversight and increased transparency Reining in unelected bureaucrats at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) Cutting the deficit by $24 billion over the next 10 years For more information on the Financial CHOICE Act, visit: financialservices.house.gov/choice. ###
06.05.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) announced today the People’s Choice winner for the 2017 Congressional Art Competition: Lee Armstrong, a junior at Chisum High School. A panel of judges selected the top-ten finalists out of submissions from high school students across Texas’ 4th District. Out of the top-ten finalists, the artwork that received the most likes on Facebook during a two-week voting period, which was open to the public, was given the People’s Choice award. Lee’s winning artwork, “Born and Raised in Texas,” is a charcoal drawing on a Texas map with tea staining. It garnered nearly 500 likes on Facebook during the voting period, and it will be displayed in Ratcliffe’s Washington office for one year. “We had a great deal of diverse talent represented in the Congressional Art Competition this year, and it’s always exciting to see which piece is the people’s favorite. I’d like to congratulate Lee on his success and encourage him to continue pursuing his talents,” Ratcliffe said. “Born and Raised in Texas” was one of two submissions from Chisum High School that were selected as top-ten finalists in the 2017 Competition. The other top-ten finalist from Chisum High School was “Growth Multiplied” by Tina Teichroeb. “Born and Raised in Texas” by Lee Armstrong “Growth Multiplied” by Tina Teichroeb ###
05.22.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe’s (R-Texas) bill to combat child exploitation passed the U.S. House of Representatives today. The Strengthening Children’s Safety Act of 2017 (H.R. 1842) boosts children’s safety by closing loopholes in the federal laws that punish sex offenders. “There are few things more shocking to the conscience and sickening to the soul than crimes against children – the most innocent, most vulnerable members of our society. As a former federal prosecutor, I will always remember the child exploitation images I was forced to view from an evidentiary standpoint as the most disturbing and difficult part of my job,” Ratcliffe said. “These horrific crimes against children should stick with us – they should haunt us – and then they should spur us to action. After all, we can talk all day long about fighting for the future of our country – but the reality is that our children are our future – and if we do anything here in Congress, it should be working to protect them. I’m grateful to my House colleagues for their strong support of my bill that will help us fulfil this important responsibility by ensuring that all dangerous sex offenders are properly punished.” Click here to view Ratcliffe’s discussion with Trey Gowdy on his children’s safety bill. The Strengthening Children’s Safety Act of 2017 closes two gaps in federal child exploitation laws to prevent offenders from eluding proper punishment. It accomplishes this by clarifying that offenders are not exempt from criminal penalties simply because of the type of court in which their crimes are convicted. Specifically, Ratcliffe’s bill 1) closes the legal loophole that allows dangerous offenders to avoid facing enhanced imprisonment penalties for committing violent crimes under state law while also failing to properly register as a sex offender, and 2) closes the legal loophole that allows sex offenders to avoid facing steeper penalties if their previously committed sex offense arose under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). As a former U.S. Attorney, Ratcliffe’s prosecution and conviction of a Nacogdoches, Texas sheriff’s deputy for child sex crimes gained statewide acclamation. In Congress, he has continued his efforts to protect children through his work on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations. ###
05.19.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) announced today the grand prize winner of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition: Brittany Ables of Rockwall High School. Her artwork was selected by a panel of judges who assessed submissions from high school students all across the 18 counties in Texas’ 4th District. The Congressional Art Competition is an annual competition sponsored by the Congressional Institute, which gives students the opportunity to share their talent with visitors to the Capitol. A grand prize winner from each congressional district is displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building for one year. Ables’ winning artwork, “Eyes of Imagination,” (pictured below) was produced using ink. “Eyes of Imagination” by Brittany Ables “The young folks in Texas’ 4th District never cease to amaze me with their incredible talent and thoughtful creativity,” Ratcliffe said. “We had a lot of great artwork submitted for this year’s art competition, and I’m grateful for all who participated. I’d like to congratulate Brittany for taking home the victory – we’re looking forward to having her artwork displayed in our nation’s capital.” Ables, along with the grand prize winners from each congressional district across the country, will be invited to attend a June 29 unveiling and award ceremony in Washington. In addition to the grand prize winner, Ratcliffe is opening up a two-week voting period for a “People’s Choice” award on his Facebook and Instagram accounts. The “People’s Choice” winner will be announced June 5. ###
05.16.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe’s (R-Texas) Strengthening State and Local Cyber Crime Fighting Act of 2017 (H.R. 1616) passed the U.S. House of Representatives today. The bill provides state and local law enforcement with the tools and training they need to combat cybercrime and protect our communities. “I’m grateful my bill passed the House to help equip our police, prosecutors and judges to address cybercrime at the state and local level. The strong support it’s already received in the Senate makes me optimistic that we’ll get it all the way to the president’s desk for his signature,” Ratcliffe said. “The dedicated men and women in law enforcement deserve to have every tool possible at their disposal to combat rapidly evolving threats in cyberspace. Whether it’s an email that was sent, an online purchase that was made or geolocation information that places an individual at the scene of the crime – digital evidence now plays a role in virtually every crime law enforcement officers face today.” H.R. 1616 authorizes the National Computer Forensics Institute (NCFI) in Hoover, Ala., which is widely recognized as the premier cybercrime training center in the nation. The NCFI has trained more than 6,250 local officials from all 50 states and three U.S. territories. Its graduates represent more than 2,000 agencies nationwide, including multiple agencies in Texas’ Fourth District. Last month, Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley and Ranking Member Dianne Feinstein introduced companion legislation that was cosponsored by senators Richard Shelby (R-Ala.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) and Luther Strange (R-Ala.). “New technology has helped us to be better connected, more organized and even more expressive. But it can also prove helpful in solving crimes. Just as law enforcement has long used techniques, like fingerprinting, to identify clues to crack a case, digital forensics is becoming more critical to uncovering evidence that can help solve crimes and bring perpetrators to justice,” Grassley said. “By authorizing this training center, this legislation helps to equip law enforcement from agencies across the country, including in Iowa, with the tools and training to dust for ‘digital fingerprints’ and utilize computer forensics to gather evidence and solve cases.” Ratcliffe is chairman of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Protection, and he served as a federal prosecutor under the Bush administration. ###
05.12.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas), House Homeland Security cybersecurity chairman, released the following statement on President Donald J. Trump's Executive Order Strengthening the Cybersecurity of Federal Networks and Critical Infrastructure issued Thursday: "I commend President Trump and his team, led by Homeland Security Advisor Tom Bossert, for their thoughtfulness in crafting this executive order. Both the process and the product signal an understanding of the complexity of America’s cybersecurity challenges and that cybersecurity is not simply a box to be checked, but instead requires a long-term, data-driven approach. "I am glad that the executive order recognized the leadership of the Department of Homeland Security in the protection of federal civilian networks, and that it demands accountability on the part of agency heads, while also treating cybersecurity risk as an executive brand-wide enterprise. The risk management assessments required of each agency by the order will enhance their individual understanding of the risks they face, and will, in the aggregate, give the president a baseline of where we stand. "I am pleased that the order also requires enhanced engagement between the federal government and the critical infrastructure sectors that face the greatest risk. Because the bulk of our critical infrastructure is owned and operated by the private sector, such enhanced engagement is the key to better supporting and securing these sectors. "I am also pleased that the order signals the administration’s forward-looking posture. America’s cybersecurity preparedness in the coming years depends, in part, on how successful we are in building a robust cyber workforce, and in developing a strategic deterrence strategy. "While this order isn't a silver bullet, this order will better equip us to manage our cyber risk and defend against those who seek to do us harm, and I look forward to continued collaboration with the President and his team in the coming months." ###
05.11.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) announced a major economic development win for the greater Texarkana region at a ceremony Thursday in New Boston, Texas. The TexAmericas Center will receive a designation by the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) as a Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone), which will bolster its ability to attract new businesses and create jobs. “I’m incredibly pleased that my congressional staff and I were able to secure HUBZone designation for TexAmericas through our work with the Department of Defense and the Small Business Administration over the past year,” Ratcliffe said. “Given the enormous potential for increased job creation in this region, I’m very optimistic about the bolstered economic growth this HUBZone designation will bring.” Through its HUBZone status, tenants at the TexAmericas Center will have preference for award of federal contracts to small businesses. They will also gain access to federal set-aside contracts and sole source contracts, as well as a price evaluation preference in full and open contract competitions. TexAmericas Center’s CEO and executive director, Scott Norton, said he is looking forward to the HUBZone designation’s impact on growing the Texarkana region’s small business community. “TexAmericas Center is thrilled to offer our tenants and business prospects the opportunity to become certified participants in the U.S. SBA HUBZone Program,” Norton said. “This is a big deal for the region. We are approached, on average, twice a year by companies looking to locate into a HUBZone; this designation will ultimately help with business attraction and job growth for the region.” ###
05.10.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) released the following statement in response to the dismissal of FBI Director James Comey: “I had the opportunity to work together with Director Comey during my time as a U.S. Attorney in the Bush administration, and again in my oversight role for the Federal Bureau of Investigation as a Member of Congress. I have great respect for his distinguished career of public service and would like to thank him for his dedication to the American system of justice. “Unfortunately, the events of the past year have eroded the public's confidence in Director Comey's ability to lead the FBI – and because the American people must have absolute faith and trust in our top federal agencies to fairly investigate and prosecute violations of the law, I support a change in leadership at the FBI. I look forward to working with the Trump administration to find a qualified, worthy successor to fulfill the important duty of leading the nation's premier law enforcement agency.” Ratcliffe publicly advocated Wednesday for Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) to fill Comey’s spot as the next FBI director. In a hearing before the House Judiciary Committee last year, Ratcliffe questioned Comey on his unprecedented decision to reveal the FBI’s recommendation not to prosecute Hillary Clinton. Before coming to Congress, Ratcliffe served as a federal prosecutor in the Department of Justice while Comey was the Deputy Attorney General. ###
05.04.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) voted Thursday for the American Health Care Act, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives to repeal Obamacare and implement conservative health care reforms in its place. He released the following statement following the bill’s passage: “Today I kept the promise I made to the people of Texas’ 4th District to repeal Obamacare – a fight I’ve been dedicated to since my first day in Congress. The legislation we just passed is a direct response to the nearly 8 out of every 10 folks in my district who voted for President Trump and his plan to work with Congress to eliminate Obamacare as opposed to Hillary Clinton’s plan to double down on it. “As negotiations were ongoing to fine-tune the language in our bill, I had the opportunity to meet with President Trump at the White House to discuss our conservative priorities. I’m grateful our conversation led to the president’s support for creating optional Medicaid block grants; incentivizing the implementation of work requirements for able-bodied, childless adults on Medicaid; and preventing tax credits from being used to pay for elective abortions. I believe that having a seat at the table for the important issues of the day is exactly what my constituents elected me to do, and I thank President Trump for his ongoing leadership throughout this process. “I’m also thankful for my Republican colleagues who offered additional constructive amendments that have even further improved this bill. All of these efforts culminated with today’s historic vote, which now places the ball in the Senate’s court. You can count on me to remain steadfast in my efforts to return sanity to our nation’s healthcare system. The American people deserve nothing less.” ###
04.25.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe’s Strengthening State and Local Cyber Crime Fighting Act of 2017 gained traction in the Senate earlier this month when Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley and Ranking Member Dianne Feinstein introduced companion legislation. The Senate companion bill was cosponsored by senators Richard Shelby (R-Ala.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) and Luther Strange (R-Ala.). “The National Computer Forensics Institute has played a major role in equipping state and local law enforcement officers across the country with the tools they need to address the extra layers of complexity presented by the growing incidences of cybercrime,” Ratcliffe said. “I’m extremely encouraged by the strong support of my colleagues in the Senate in the fight to empower police to combat cybercrime, and I’m hopeful we will continue moving the ball forward on this important issue.” Like Ratcliffe’s bill, the Senate version also authorizes the National Computer Forensics Institute (NCFI) in Hoover, Ala., which is widely recognized as the premier cybercrime training center in the nation. The NCFI has trained more than 6,250 local officials from all 50 states and three U.S. territories. Its graduates represent more than 2,000 agencies nationwide, including multiple agencies in Texas’ Fourth District. In a House Homeland Security cybersecurity subcommittee field hearing chaired by Ratcliffe last April, a former law enforcement officer, Don Waddle of Texas’ 4th District, confirmed the positive impact of his training at NCFI. “I am not the main benefactor of this training. The citizens of Greenville, Texas and Hunt County, Texas, as well as the north Texas area reap the benefits of this training with better recovery rates for property as well as more perpetrators being taken off the streets,” Waddle said. “A better-equipped, better-prepared police force means better-protected communities. And at the end of the day, the safety of the American people is always the number one goal,” Ratcliffe said. In 2015, a previous version of Ratcliffe’s bill (H.R. 3490) passed the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
04.21.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) formally recognized a Rockwall resident Thursday for his extraordinary efforts to help a veteran in need. Stan Lowrance, a local dentist, received the “John Ratcliffe Lone Star Award” for providing pro bono dental care to a veteran who could not afford treatment for her painful condition. The veteran receiving treatment from Lowrance underwent successful cancer treatment through the VA several years ago, but she was unable to afford care for the dental issues stemming from her chemotherapy and radiation because dental treatment is not covered by the VA. Upon hearing of this veteran’s story from another of his patients, Tom Galli, Lowrance stepped in to offer his dental services, free of cost. “Although we can never fully repay our veterans for their great sacrifices on behalf of our country, I’m very encouraged by the great work being done by folks throughout the Northeast Texas community that shows their sacrifices will never be forgotten,” Ratcliffe said. “I was very touched by Stan’s gracious efforts to help a local veteran who wouldn’t have otherwise been able to receive the treatment she needed. Stories like this should inspire us all to do more for our neighbors who are in need.” Ratcliffe created the Lone Star Award in 2016 as a way to honor constituents in Texas’ 4th District who perform exceptional acts of kindness to help others in their community who otherwise might go unrecognized. Lowrance is the fifth person out of the 18 counties Ratcliffe represents to receive the Lone Star Award. ###
04.18.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) introduced a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution (H.J. Res. 98) last week to bring much-needed fiscal discipline to Washington. The constitutional amendment would not only revoke pay for members of Congress if a balanced budget is not adopted, but it would also revoke pay for the president if a balanced budget is not submitted to Congress. “We all know that making meaningful change in Washington often doesn’t happen unless we hold lawmakers’ feet to the fire. My balanced budget amendment would do just that by stripping both the president and Congress of their pay if either fails to live up to their duty to balance the budget,” Ratcliffe said. “After all, the best way to improve the economy is by allowing Americans to keep more of their hard-earned dollars and by promoting pro-growth policies that encourage investment – not by allowing excessive government spending and fiscal irresponsibility to continue.” H.J. Res. 98 also amends the Constitution to include the following fiscally conservative provisions: prohibit total outlays from exceeding total receipts for any fiscal year, limit outlays each fiscal year to no more than 18 percent of GDP, prohibit new taxes or tax increases unless two thirds of both bodies of Congress agree, and require approval by three fourths of both bodies of Congress to increase or suspend the debt limit. ###
04.07.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) released the following statement on the U.S. military strikes in Syria: “The Assad regime’s horrific attack on innocent civilians earlier this week was in complete defiance of international law barring the use of chemical weapons. I applaud President Trump for his decision to call for a military strike on the airfield where this chemical attack was launched. His action was an appropriate, direct and proportional response to this heinous assault on innocent life. Through his decisive action, the president has signaled a clear departure from the many years of failed policies that have allowed for further destabilization in the Middle East. As a Member of Congress, I will stay actively engaged as we move forward with the Trump administration in addressing any further involvement in Syria.” ###
04.05.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe’s (R-Texas) bill to combat child exploitation was approved Wednesday by the House Judiciary Committee. The Strengthening Children’s Safety Act of 2017 (H.R. 1842), which aims to close loopholes in the federal laws that punish sex offenders, was passed by voice vote. “There are few things more revolting than crimes committed against those most vulnerable in our society, and it’s the government’s responsibility to ensure such acts don’t go unpunished. I’m grateful the House Judiciary Committee approved my bill to ensure that sex offenders won’t escape the penalties they deserve due to loopholes in our federal laws,” Ratcliffe said. “As a former federal prosecutor, I will always remember the child exploitation images I was forced to view from an evidentiary standpoint as the most disturbing and difficult part of my job. But the images of these horrific crimes against children should stick with us – they should haunt us – and then, they should spur us to action. I’m glad I’ve been able to continue my efforts to strengthen children’s safety as a Member of Congress, and I look forward to making ongoing progress in this space.” The Strengthening Children’s Safety Act of 2017 closes two gaps in federal child exploitation laws to prevent offenders from eluding proper punishment. It accomplishes this by clarifying that offenders are not exempt from criminal penalties simply because of the type of court in which their crimes are convicted. Specifically, Ratcliffe’s bill 1) closes the legal loophole that allows dangerous offenders to avoid facing enhanced imprisonment penalties for committing violent crimes under state law while also failing to properly register as a sex offender, and 2) closes the legal loophole that allows sex offenders to avoid facing steeper penalties if their previously committed sex offense arose under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). As a former U.S. Attorney, Ratcliffe’s prosecution and conviction of a Nacogdoches, Texas sheriff’s deputy for child sex crimes gained statewide acclamation. In Congress, he has continued his efforts to protect children through his work on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations. ###
03.31.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) praised Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt’s clarification that states are not obligated to comply with the Clean Power Plan (CPP), which was stayed by the Supreme Court last year. “The Obama administration’s war on affordable energy is finally over – and it’s hard-working American families and businesses that will win. I applaud the Trump administration’s swift action to reverse the damage caused by eight long years of Obama’s radical agenda on climate change,” Ratcliffe said. “I’m glad EPA Administrator Pruitt has lifted the unwarranted uncertainty caused by the so-called ‘Clean Power Plan’ so folks won’t be forced to foot the bill for regulations that are not only intrusive, but also potentially unlawful. I look forward to working alongside the Trump administration to protect Americans from harmful energy regulations as further steps are taken to ensure that domestic energy production is embraced as a driver of economic growth and job creation.” After the Supreme Court’s stay on the CPP was first issued, Ratcliffe led 111 House members in calling on the former EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy to provide clarification on CPP compliance dates. In response, the Obama administration refused to issue clarification, instead stating, “The EPA firmly believes the Clean Power Plan will be upheld when the courts address its merits because it rests on strong scientific and legal foundations.” The Trump administration’s clarification about CPP compliance addresses the lawmakers’ previously expressed concern that stakeholders would be uncertain about whether to move forward with costly compliance measures despite their potentially permanent hold. Without confirmation from the administration, such parties would risk being penalized for not meeting deadlines if the CPP’s legality is ultimately upheld. Ratcliffe has been committed to combatting the EPA’s harmful CPP regulations since they were first announced by the Obama administration. In September 2016, he introduced disapproval measures (H.J. Res. 68 and H.J. Res. 67) in the House, which were aimed at preventing skyrocketing energy costs and the elimination of jobs across the country that were projected to result from the regulations. In December 2016, he voted for nearly identical measures (S.J. Res. 23 and S.J. Res. 24), which passed in both the House and Senate. ###
03.28.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) chaired a House Homeland Security Committee cybersecurity subcommittee hearing today to examine the status of the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) ongoing efforts to secure federal networks. The hearing included witnesses from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Government Accountability Office and the Congressional Research Service. Witnesses provided testimony on the areas in which DHS has excelled or should improve in its efforts to successfully carry out the legislative authorities established in the Cybersecurity Act of 2015 and the Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014. Specifically, the witnesses discussed the EINSTEIN and Continuous Diagnostics and Mitigation programs. “Federal law has deliberately tasked DHS with a critical role in the protection of federal networks, and over the past few years we’ve made some significant strides. As DHS works to fulfill the important responsibility of fully implementing its federal network protection programs, it’s imperative that we in Congress stay engaged through frequent, thorough and ongoing oversight,” Ratcliffe said. “That means more than performing a routine check-up – or ‘taking the temperature’ – if you will, and then just moving on. It means listening to input from those who are actually on the front lines, and then building upon what we learn to ensure that federal network security is worthy of the trust placed in it by the American people.” The importance of continual oversight of DHS’ critical cybersecurity mission was further enforced by DHS Acting Deputy Undersecretary for Cybersecurity, Jeanette Manfra. “Cybersecurity remains one of the most significant strategic risks to the United States. The past several years have seen a steady drumbeat of cybersecurity compromises affecting the Federal Government, state and local governments, and the private sector,” Manfra said. “This administration will make significant investments in cybersecurity. In the recently-released budget blueprint, the president requested $1.5 billion for DHS to safeguard cyberspace by protecting federal networks and critical infrastructure from an attack.” ###
03.27.2017	Rep. Ratcliffe (R-Texas) highlighted his ongoing legislative efforts to bolster U.S.-Israel cybersecurity cooperation today at AIPAC’s Annual Policy Conference. He was joined by Rep. Jim Langevin (D-R.I.) on a panel moderated by AIPAC’s Assistant Director of Policy & Government Affairs, Taylor Parker. Specifically, Ratcliffe and Langevin discussed: -Their congressional delegation trip to Israel to discuss cybersecurity issues with top officials including Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Israeli Minister of Defense Moshe Ya’alon. - Their bill, the United States-Israel Advanced Research Partnership Act of 2016 (H.R. 5877), which was signed into law in December to strengthen collaborative cybersecurity research and development efforts between the United States and Israel. -Their bill, the United States-Israel Cybersecurity Cooperation Enhancement Act (H.R. 612), which passed the U.S. House of Representatives in January to create a cybersecurity grant program for joint research and development ventures between Israeli and American entities. “Our congressional delegation trip last year provided a clear vision of ways to enhance our country’s cybersecurity collaboration with Israel. Each step along the way – from our initial discussions, until signature into law – we were humbled to have the strong support of our friends at AIPAC,” Ratcliffe said. “Cybersecurity has quickly risen as a top mutual priority for both of our countries, and I’m looking forward to how we’ll continue expanding this longstanding partnership in the years to come.” ###
03.17.2017	Rep. Ratcliffe (R-Texas) released the following statement on his meeting with President Donald Trump to discuss repealing and replacing Obamacare: “It's no secret that Obamacare is an unmitigated disaster that is collapsing right in front of us, and I couldn’t agree more with President Trump that repealing it is not just an option – it’s a necessity. As a Member of Congress, I’m proud to have a seat at the table as we move forward to carry out this important task on behalf of the American people. “Today I had a productive discussion with President Trump about a number of conservative reforms to improve the proposed House Republican health care bill. I was particularly pleased that our discussion led to the president’s support for creating optional Medicaid block grants; incentivizing the implementation of work requirements for able-bodied, non-disabled, childless adults; and preventing tax credits from being used to pay for elective abortions. These are strong, conservative wins that will substantially improve the bill. “The president asked for my help in pushing these key reforms through, and I stand ready and willing to do just that. I see today's meeting as evidence that the system is working: Members of Congress and the president sitting around a table, having a serious conversation about how to improve legislation that will help the people we were elected to serve.” ###
03.17.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) introduced the Strengthening State and Local Cyber Crime Fighting Act of 2017 today to provide state and local law enforcement with the tools they need to combat cybercrime and protect our communities. “We’ve all seen crime shows on TV where pieces of DNA evidence – a strand of hair or a drop of blood – solve the case. But in today’s world, we also have to consider digital evidence. This could be an email that was sent, an online purchase, or geolocation technology that places an individual at the scene of a crime,” Ratcliffe said. “Cyber elements add layers of complexity to the crimes our local law enforcement officers face every day – and we’ve got to make sure they have access to the training they need to address this trend. My bill will authorize the National Computer Forensics Institute to do just that.” Ratcliffe’s bill authorizes the National Computer Forensics Institute (NCFI) in Hoover, Ala., which is widely recognized as the premier cyber-crime training center in the nation. The NCFI has trained more than 6,250 local officials from all 50 states and three U.S. Territories. Its graduates represent more than 2,000 agencies nationwide, including multiple agencies in Texas’ Fourth District. In a House Homeland Security cybersecurity subcommittee field hearing chaired by Ratcliffe last April, a former law enforcement officer, Don Waddle of Texas’ 4th District, confirmed the positive impact of his training at NCFI. “I am not the main benefactor of this training. The citizens of Greenville, Texas and Hunt County, Texas, as well as the north Texas area reap the benefits of this training with better recovery rates for property as well as more perpetrators being taken off the streets,” Waddle said. “A better-equipped, better-prepared police force means better-protected communities. And at the end of the day, the safety of the American people is always the number one goal,” Ratcliffe said. In 2015, a previous version of Ratcliffe’s bill (H.R. 3490) passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a voice vote. The text of the Strengthening State and Local Cyber Crime Fighting Act of 2017 is available here. ###
03.09.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) chaired a cybersecurity hearing today to identify opportunities for bolstering partnerships between the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the private sector. “Just weeks ago, Secretary Kelly confirmed that DHS holds its cyber mission as a top priority – and continued input and engagement from the private sector are critical for advancing this important goal,” Ratcliffe said. “Hearing from stakeholders who’ve been regularly partnering with DHS will show us how to enhance our collaborative programs, so we can be a force multiplier of the private sector’s current cyber defense capabilities.” The hearing, “The Current State of DHS Private Sector Engagement for Cybersecurity,” sought input on DHS’s robust portfolio of partnerships, including Information Sharing and Analysis Organizations, the Cyber Information Sharing and Collaboration Program, Sector Coordinating Councils and the Automated Indicator Sharing Program. Top cyber officials from the HITRUST Alliance, Intel Security Group, Symantec, Palo Alto Networks, and New America’s Open Technology Institute were included in the panel. The witnesses laid out their suggested priorities for the Trump administration to help ensure existing private sector programs and activities are meaningful, substantive and effective. Specifically, they suggested that the administration retain DHS as the lead in the civilian cyber effort, put a sustained focus on implementing the cyber roles and missions already established in law, clarify more specific expectations for the private sector when it comes to this collaboration, address the shortage of cybersecurity professionals through education and increased automation, and support provisions in the DHS guidance to protect privacy. “Our goal is to make sure that the private sector has every opportunity and every reason to take full advantage of DHS’ cybersecurity programs, so we can continue to work together to secure cyberspace. We must now utilize the information we’ve been given to keep the ball moving in the right direction,” Ratcliffe said. ###
03.06.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) released the following statement on President Trump’s executive order to protect the nation from foreign terrorist entry in to the United States: “Providing for the common defense is the number one responsibility of the federal government, and I applaud President Trump’s new executive order for prioritizing this important goal. As a former terrorism prosecutor and member of the House Homeland Security Committee, I’ll continue working alongside the Trump administration to ensure American people are protected from terrorist threats.” ###
02.28.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) released the following statement on President Donald J. Trump’s first address to a Joint Session of Congress: “It was a privilege to attend President Trump’s first Joint Address to Congress. The President's message was powerful and optimistic. Tonight, he made it clear that he will prioritize polices that foster opportunity for the American people instead of stifling it, and that he supports a vision for our countrythat puts the safety and security of our own people first. “The reception for Carryn Owens, the widow of fallen Navy Special Operator William "Ryan" Owens, was incredibly moving and an important reminder of the American ideals we all hold dear. This moment demonstrated how critical it is that we never forget those who have given the ultimate sacrifice to defend our freedom and liberty. “I was encouraged by President Trump's emphasis on working as a team with Congress to build upon the groundwork we’ve laid already. In just over a month, we've worked to successfully undo some of the most intrusive regulations rammed through by President Obama, and we plan to keep up this aggressive fight to return power to the people. With President Trump, Republicans have a willing partner in the White House, and I’m eager to continue working with him to deliver results at this important juncture for our country.” ###
02.17.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) supported the passage of legislation this week to enhance services for veterans seeking assistance with compensation claims. The WINGMAN Act (H.R. 512) passed the U.S. House without opposition and was sent to the U.S. Senate. The WINGMAN Act would boost the ability of caseworkers in Rep. Ratcliffe’s local offices to serve veterans in need throughout Texas’ 4th District. Specifically, it allows caseworkers to access the critical information they need to assist veterans by stripping away bureaucratic roadblocks imposed by the federal government. “I’ve been very pleased with incredible work my staff has done to serve veterans throughout our communities. With more than 63,000 veterans in Texas’ 4th District, this is no easy task, and I’m glad my colleagues in the U.S. House have joined me in passing legislation to streamline this important job as much as possible.” Ratcliffe said. Ratcliffe’s staff has recovered $467,063 in lost or frozen VA benefits and addressed 343 cases on behalf of veterans since he’s been in office. Those served included veterans dealing with a wide range of issues including homelessness, cancer and unemployment. His staff additionally resolved hundreds of other constituent cases relating to Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. “I was sent to Washington to serve the people of Texas’ 4th District – and a huge part of that means ensuring their needs are met on a case-by-case basis right here at home,” Ratcliffe said. “While politically-charged pieces of legislation often dominate national headlines, helping individual constituents bust through the red tape of the federal government is a key service my staff and I take very seriously.” “It’s no secret that there’s a lot of work to be done to reform our country’s VA system, and I’ve been fighting aggressively to advance those efforts in Washington. In the meantime, we’ve got to step up to the plate and fill in the gaps through the services provided on the local level, and that’s exactly what my staff is committed to doing.” If you are interested in seeking assistance from one of Ratcliffe’s local offices, please call 972-771-0100 for more information. ###
02.14.2017	Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) and Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) introduced legislation today to reverse unaccountable overreach at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). The pair of bills (S. 370 and H.R. 1031) would help advance Republicans’ broader Dodd-Frank reform efforts by tackling Title X of the law. "Don't let the name fool you, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau does little to protect consumers. During the Obama administration, the CFPB grew in power and magnitude without any accountability to Congress and the people, and I am encouraged by the actions President Trump has begun to take to roll back the harmful impacts of an out-of-control bureaucracy," Sen. Cruz said. "The legislation that Rep. Ratcliffe and I are introducing today gives Congress the opportunity to free consumers and small businesses from the CFPB's regulatory blockades and financial activism, which stunt economic growth. While there's much more to do to scale back the harmful regulatory impositions of Dodd-Frank, this legislation takes a critical step in the right direction." “The past several years showed us precisely why massive swaths of federal regulations are never the right solution to help hard-working Americans. President Trump has made it clear he’ll join us in our fight to dismantle Dodd-Frank and finally offer some relief to the small business owners throughout Texas and across the country who’ve been hit hardest by its devastating impact,” said Rep. Ratcliffe. Rep. Ratcliffe continued: “The CFPB’s lack of accountability to the American people was quickly evidenced when – contrary to its name – it ended up hurting many of the very folks it was intended to help. While Sen. Cruz and I have been sounding the alarm on the CFPB’s federal overreach for some time now, I’m optimistic at our renewed chances of advancing this effort with a willing partner in the White House.” Full text of the legislation can be viewed here. ###
02.01.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement on President Trump’s nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court of the United States: “Neil Gorsuch’s impressive range of professional experience is defined by his unwavering commitment to defending our Constitution. In his more than a decade of service as a federal judge, his acclaimed fairness and impartiality exhibited why his appointment to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit was unopposed. I’m very pleased President Trump has nominated him to continue serving our country as a Supreme Court Justice. This is not a matter of partisan politics – this is a matter of justice. I’m extremely confident in Gorsuch’s ability to sustain his dedication to full impartiality in the highest court in the land.” ###
01.31.2017	Legislation introduced by Reps. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) and Jim Langevin (D-R.I.) passed the U.S. House of Representatives today to strengthen cybersecurity collaboration between the United States and Israel. The United States-Israel Cybersecurity Cooperation Enhancement Act (H.R. 612) will create a cybersecurity grant program for joint research and development ventures between Israeli and American entities. It is the result of a congressional delegation trip to Israel the two lawmakers took in May of last year. “Israel is America’s strongest and most strategic ally in the Middle East, and I’m glad the House just passed our bill to further fortify this strategic partnership through enhanced joint cybersecurity efforts. After Jim and I traveled to Israel last year to discuss this important aspect of our national security with top officials, we defined key areas where we could boost our collaboration to strengthen our countries’ cybersecurity posture. I’m grateful for Jim’s continued work with me on these efforts in the new session of U.S. Congress, and I’m looking forward to the progress we’ll make with Israel in the years to come,” said Ratcliffe, who chairs the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Protection. “Cybersecurity is at the center of our national and economic security, as well as the personal security of consumers. The United States and Israel have an opportunity here to work together to develop innovative solutions to the threats we face in cyberspace,” said Langevin, co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Cybersecurity Caucus. “We have a mutual interest in strengthening our cyber defenses, and I believe this legislation will fortify our productive partnership in tackling the cyber threats of today and the future. I thank Chairman Ratcliffe for his continued leadership on this issue, and I call on the Senate to take up the bill as soon as possible.” Under the cybersecurity grant program created through this legislation, the Secretary of Homeland Security will determine research requirements with help from an advisory board made up of members from successful U.S.-Israeli partnerships, such as the United States-Israel Binational Science Foundation and the United States-Israel Binational Industrial Research and Development Foundation. In December of last year, the United States-Israel Advanced Research Partnership Act of 2016 (H.R. 5877), also introduced by Ratcliffe and Langevin, was signed into law. ###
01.24.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement on his renewed chairmanship of the House Homeland Security Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Protection Subcommittee for the 115th Congress: “The importance of cybersecurity to every aspect of society is becoming increasingly apparent. Cybersecurity is a prominent and permanent factor we must take into account as we formulate national security strategies, develop policies for protecting our critical infrastructure, and strive to safeguard the personal privacy of Americans. “I’m proud of the significant strides we’ve made over the past two years to strengthen our nation’s cybersecurity posture – most notably through the passage and enactment of the Cybersecurity Act of 2015. This long-anticipated law encourages the voluntary sharing of cyber threat indicators, while also boosting the security of federal government networks. “On top of this, the United States-Israel Advanced Research Partnership Act of 2016 was signed into law in December, and just this month, the House passed two key measures to foster collaboration between the federal government and private sector in boosting cybersecurity innovation. “Looking ahead, I plan to lead the Subcommittee in building upon the progress we’ve already made. We’ll focus on a broad range of issues, some of which will include: • improving the security of federal networks, • building a stronger cyber workforce, • ensuring the federal government is leveraging innovative cybersecurity technologies, • developing public-private partnerships for the security of critical infrastructure, • building effective collaboration with state and local partners, and • implementing the Cybersecurity Act of 2015.” ###
01.20.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement on the inauguration of Donald Trump as the 45th President of the United States: “President Trump’s inauguration represents the start of a new chapter in our nation’s history – a chapter I am confident will be far different from the malaise we’ve seen during the past eight years under President Obama. Under our now unified Republican government, we can finally prove why the conservative policies we’ve been fighting for all along are truly what we need to get our country back on track. “It’s time to do away with Obama’s failed liberal progressive experiment that has made our country less prosperous, less safe, and less secure. We’ve already paved a clear path for Obamacare repeal, cutting back on excessive red tape, restoring respect for the Constitution, cracking down on illegal immigration, and boosting our national security. I’m looking forward to partnering with President Trump to advance all of these important priorities, so we can Make America Great Again.” ###
01.19.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) formally called on President-elect Trump to prioritize law enforcement safety a week ahead of the inauguration. Specifically, he advocated for the reversal of President Obama’s January 2015 executive actions that restricted access to the “1033 Program,” which provides surplus defense equipment to state and local law enforcement. “State and local law enforcement officers from all over Texas’ 4th District and across the country were rightfully outraged at President Obama’s actions to limit their access to live-saving defense equipment. This politically motivated move has dangerous and potentially lethal implications for our men and women in blue who place their lives on the line each day to protect our communities,” Ratcliffe said. “I’m glad that President-elect Trump has already made it clear he’s committed to ensuring our police are properly equipped to safely do their jobs, and I've already spoken to his team about taking swift action to restore access to the "1033 program" as a first step in fulfilling this important responsibility. With the enormous sacrifices our nation’s law enforcement officers make on our behalf, we owe them nothing less than the very best protective equipment we can offer.” Last March, Ratcliffe introduced the Protecting Lives Using Surplus (PLUS) Equipment Act of 2016 (H.R. 4880), which also aimed to stop President Obama’s unilateral changes to the “1033 Program.” The measure was endorsed by the National Fraternal Order of Police, the National Sheriffs Association, the Major County Sheriffs’ Association and the National Association of Police Organizations. Ratcliffe reintroduced the bill (H.R. 426) this month at the start of the new Congress. ###
01.17.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s decision to commute the remaining prison sentence of Chelsea Manning: “President Obama’s decision to commute Chelsea Manning’s remaining prison sentence shows, yet again, an alarming refusal to put national security ahead of politics. Allowing anyone who’s exposed our nation’s most sensitive information to get off easy certainly isn’t how we prevent Americans’ safety from being jeopardized again. We simply can't afford to play games with anyone who's engaged in such treachery.” Ratcliffe serves on the House Homeland Security and Judiciary Committees and is a former terrorism prosecutor in the Department of Justice. ###
01.11.2017	Two bills introduced by Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) passed in the U.S. House of Representatives today to help drain the “regulatory swamp” bred during the Obama Presidency. Ratcliffe introduced both bills – the ALERT Act (H.R. 75) and the Separation of Powers Restoration Act (H.R. 76) – on day one of the new session of Congress. “The historic election of Donald Trump this November sent a clear message to Washington that the American people don’t want eight more years of the same. And Congress owes it to them to deliver on this mandate,” Ratcliffe said. “That’s why – right off the bat – I reintroduced two key pieces of legislation that will help heal our nation from the damage done by the immense regulatory overreach imposed under President Obama’s watch. I’m glad these measures passed in the House, and I’m hopeful they’ll receive just as much support in the Senate.” The All Economic Regulations are Transparent (ALERT) Act (H.R. 75) blocks the administration from implementing federal regulations without first providing the public with detailed information for at least six months before they go into effect. Current law requires the administration to release an update twice a year on the regulations being developed by federal agencies. Yet under President Obama, these updates have been late—if they have been issued at all. The Separation of Powers Restoration Act (SOPRA) (H.R. 76) seeks restore three co-equal branches of government by abolishing the doctrine that has often enabled administrative agencies to interpret laws to mean whatever they want. It accomplishes this by overturning a 1984 Supreme Court decision (Chevron v. NRDC) which ruled that courts should, in many cases, defer to administrative agencies’ interpretations of “ambiguous” statutes written by Congress. “My bills that passed in the House today don’t only clean up the mess left behind by President Obama’s swath of unelected bureaucrats, but they also seek to ensure that such a huge outpouring of burdensome regulations won’t be allowed to happen ever again,” Ratcliffe said. “The ALERT Act does this by demanding the transparency our regulators have been failing – or blatantly refusing – to provide without consequence, so the American people actually have time to comply or object before they go into effect. The Separation of Powers Restoration Act does this by rebalancing the scales that have been tilted in favor of regulators, so they can no longer write, implement and be the judge of their own rules without proper oversight.” H.R. 75 and H.R. 76 passed the House as Titles II and V of House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte’s Regulatory Accountability Act of 2017 (H.R. 5). The bills are now headed to the Senate for consideration. ###
01.10.2017	Two bills introduced by Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) passed in the U.S. House of Representatives today to help foster collaborative efforts between the federal government and private sector in boosting cybersecurity innovation: The Support for Rapid Innovation Act of 2017 (H.R. 239) provides for more effective coordination with industry and academia to foster research and development of cybersecurity technologies. The Leveraging Emerging Technologies Act of 2017 (H.R. 240) encourages engagement between the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and emerging technology developers and firms to help get our government’s cybersecurity defense and response capabilities up to speed with the challenges of the digital age. “It’s no secret that the federal government has struggled to keep pace with the exponential levels of technological innovation taking place, and one of my core beliefs as a legislator is that many of the most innovative solutions are best developed outside of Washington." “That’s why it’s so important for us to engage with emerging technology developers who have already made enormous strides in crafting new tools and strategies that can help us defend our country against cyber threats. The bills we just passed in the House will enable our government to effectively leverage the private sector’s innovation and expertise to strengthen our national cybersecurity posture.” The two bills are included in House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy’s Innovation Initiative, which aims to enable innovation in the private sector and to bring innovation into government. Ratcliffe is chairman of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Security Technologies, where he’s focused on bringing cybersecurity measures up to speed with the sophistication of cyber threats. ###
01.05.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) voted today for the U.S. House passage of H.Res. 11, which opposes and calls for the repeal of UNSC Resolution 2334. Contrary to the longstanding United States policy of blocking one-sided resolutions against Israel, the Obama administration allowed Resolution 2334 to pass by refusing to veto it last month. “Immediately after the Obama administration allowed the UN to pass its anti-Israel resolution, I joined my colleagues in Congress to express my grave concerns about this drastic deviation from America’s longstanding policy of defending our ally, Israel, from such one-sided actions,” Ratcliffe said. “Today’s vote solidifies our strong stance against the Obama administration’s shameful refusal to stand up on behalf of our most trusted ally in the Middle East, and it lays the foundation for the incoming Trump administration to move swiftly and forcefully to address the negative impact of this irresponsible decision.” The Obama administration’s unprecedented move not to veto the UN’s anti-Israel resolution came just days after Ratcliffe’s United States-Israel Advanced Research Partnership Act (H.R. 5877) was signed into law. Ratcliffe said he’s looking forward to working with President-elect Trump on opportunities to bolster U.S.-Israel collaboration in the future. “I’m glad that – unlike President Obama – President-elect Trump openly urged the veto of the UN’s anti-Israel resolution. We need a leader in the White House whose actions will help maintain and improve our relationship with Israel – not risk destabilizing it.” ###
01.03.2017	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) was sworn in today for his second term representing Texas’ 4th District in the U.S. House of Representatives. This comes just weeks before President-elect Donald Trump will take office, kicking off the start of a unified Republican government in the White House and Congress. “I’m humbled and grateful for the opportunity to continue serving the great people of Texas’ 4th District – especially at such a historic juncture,” Ratcliffe said. “In November, the American people rose up and made it clear that after eight years of President Obama's failed policies, it's now time for wholesale reform to the federal government. I’m more than ready to work with President-elect Donald Trump as a willing and eager partner in the Executive Branch to advance our conservative solutions,” Ratcliffe said. Following the swearing in ceremony, Ratcliffe introduced a key measure to alleviate the immense regulatory burden imposed by the Obama administration: the Separation of Powers Restoration Act (SOPRA). The bill seeks to restore three co-equal branches of government by abolishing the doctrine that has enabled administrative agencies to create rules out of thin air that have the force of law. The measure passed in the House last year, and Ratcliffe said he’s optimistic about its chances to become law in the new session of Congress. “Our soon-to-be unified Republican government has provided an open door for actually reversing the overregulation that’s multiplied so drastically under President Obama’s watch. Now it’s time to deliver results to the American people.” ###
12.19.2016	Legislation introduced by Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) and Rep. Jim Langevin (D-R.I.) was signed into law Friday to strengthen collaborative cybersecurity research and development efforts between the United States and Israel. The pair of lawmakers introduced the United States-Israel Advanced Research Partnership Act of 2016 (H.R. 5877) in July after returning from a congressional delegation trip to Israel that focused on addressing key cybersecurity issues facing both countries. “My work as a cybersecurity subcommittee chairman over the past two years has focused on ensuring American citizens are protected from the growing national security threats posed by malicious cyber actors who intend to do our nation harm. I’m glad I was able to work closely with Rep. Langevin to craft legislation to advance this important fight that is now the law of the land,” Ratcliffe said. “Cybersecurity is the national and economic security challenge of our time, and we must use every resource at our disposal to support research, foster innovation, and fortify our cyber defenses. This must include a collaborative approach that allows us to work with our leading partners, like Israel, to develop new technologies for our cyber incident responders,” Langevin said. “Passage of this law will enhance cybersecurity for the United States and Israel, putting us on a shared path toward innovative solutions to the threats we face. I look forward to continuing to work with Chairman Ratcliffe to strengthen our relationship with Israel, including by passage of the United States-Israel Cybersecurity Cooperation Enhancement Act next Congress.” The lawmakers said their meetings with top Israeli officials, including Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Minister of Defense Moshe Ya’alon, laid a critical foundation for their U.S.-Israel cybersecurity legislation. “When Rep. Langevin and I traveled to Israel earlier this year, our discussions with Israeli national security and cybersecurity leaders revealed the immense wealth of untapped potential we can leverage together to collectively vamp up our efforts to combat growing cyber threats. We are extremely grateful for the opportunity to work more closely with a country that’s a proven pioneer in cyber science and a top leader in cyber expertise,” Ratcliffe said. The United States-Israel Advanced Research Partnership Act expands a successful binational research and development program at the Homeland Security Advanced Research Projects Agency to include cybersecurity technologies. This collaboration between DHS and the Israeli Ministry of Public Security helps new products through the “valley of death” between basic and early-phase applied research and successful commercialization, and will help both countries develop solutions to the unique security problems found in the cyber domain. Ratcliffe chairs the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Security Technologies. Langevin is a senior member of the House Homeland Security Committee, and the co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Cybersecurity Caucus. ###
12.02.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) voted Friday for the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (S. 2943), which boosts support for America’s military, enhances national defense capabilities and provides the biggest pay raise for U.S. service members in six years. The bill authorizes the $619 billion in funding necessary to restore adequate readiness for our armed forces, protect our homeland from rapidly evolving threats and provide our troops with the resources they need to be successful. “The Constitution demands that the federal government prioritize our national security, and the legislation we’ve passed today does just that. In America, we’re blessed with so many freedoms thanks our brave men and women in uniform. We must always ensure they’re equipped with the best training and defense capabilities in the world, and that they receive the pay they rightfully deserve for their selfless service to our country,” Ratcliffe said. The 2017 National Defense Authorization Act includes the following notable provisions: • Increases pay for service members by 2.1 percent and bars the president from blocking this raise • Prevents Guantanamo Bay detainee transfers to the United States. • Combats terrorism and radical Islamist extremists • Reverses the drawdown on troop numbers • Strengthens support for Israel with funds for Israeli cooperative missile defense including the Iron Dome • Prioritizes cyber defense capabilities Ratcliffe also praised the bill’s exclusion of any authorization for another round of base realignment and closure (BRAC) at the Red River Army Depot in Texarkana. This is consistent with his own amendment passed in the House earlier this year to prevent funds from going to BRAC, and it protects more than 5,000 jobs in the region that provide critical readiness capabilities to the Army. ###
11.29.2016	Legislation introduced by Reps. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) and Jim Langevin (D-R.I.) passed the U.S. House today to strengthen collaborative cybersecurity research and development efforts between the United States and Israel. The two bills were introduced in July, after the lawmakers returned from a congressional delegation trip to Israel that focused on key cybersecurity issues facing both countries. The United States-Israel Advanced Research Partnership Act of 2016 (H.R. 5877) and the United States-Israel Cybersecurity Cooperation Enhancement Act of 2016 (H.R. 5843) both passed unanimously out of the House and now await action in the Senate. “Israel is a vital strategic partner, and I’m pleased to be working closely with Rep. Langevin to preserve and strengthen this important bond through joint cybersecurity efforts. Cybersecurity is national security, and enhancing joint research and development efforts between the United States and Israel will improve our countries’ ability to deter malicious cyber actors,” said Ratcliffe, who chairs the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Security Technologies. “I’m glad the House passed these bills to amplify the work already being done to tackle the growing cyber threats we both face, and I’m hopeful this legislation will serve as a solid foundation for a sustained cybersecurity partnership as we look to address new and evolving cyber issues moving forward.” “My trip to Israel with Congressman Ratcliffe was an illuminating experience, and reinforced my belief that our countries have much to learn from one another when it comes to cybersecurity,” said Langevin, co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Cybersecurity Caucus. “This belief has only been reinforced in the intervening months as we saw cyber-attacks that targeted the very foundation of our nation, our electoral system. Nations share many cybersecurity problems with the private sector, but they do have distinct national security challenges in cyberspace that they must address. Our legislation will further strengthen the U.S.-Israel relationship and drive innovative, collaborative thinking about homeland security priorities. I am so pleased that my colleagues in the House recognize that cybersecurity is the security challenge of our time, and I urge the Senate to act without delay.” The United States-Israel Advanced Research Partnership Act expands a successful binational research and development program at the Homeland Security Advanced Research Projects Agency to include cybersecurity technologies. This collaboration between DHS and the Israeli Ministry of Public Security helps new products through the “valley of death” between basic and early-phase applied research and successful commercialization, and will help both countries develop solutions to the unique security problems found in the cyber domain. The United States-Israel Cybersecurity Cooperation Enhancement Act will create a cybersecurity grant program for joint research and development ventures between Israeli and American entities. The Secretary of Homeland Security will determine research requirements with help from an advisory board made up of members from successful U.S.-Israeli partnerships, such as the United States-Israel Binational Science Foundation and the United States-Israel Binational Industrial Research and Development Foundation. ###
11.09.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement to congratulate President-elect Donald Trump on his victory to become the 45th president of the United States: “The American people have made their message loud and clear – after dealing with eight years of the Obama administration's disastrous policies, we need a new direction for our country. I congratulate President-elect Trump on his incredibly hard-fought victory and look forward to working together to deliver the conservative solutions our country needs. From repealing and replacing Obamacare, to reducing regulatory overreach, to lowering taxes, and defeating Islamist terrorism – I'm confident that Republicans stand ready to deliver results for the American people.” ###
10.29.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) delivered the Republican address this week to discuss how House Republicans are offering a #BetterWay to achieve quality, more affordable health care. Earlier this week, the Obama administration confirmed that Obamacare premiums will rise by more than 20 percent next year. “Republicans are offering a plan to repeal Obamacare and replace it with real, sensible, patient-centered solutions,” said Rep. Ratcliffe. “Because in a nation of 323 million people, it makes no sense for unelected bureaucrats to dictate your health insurance plans. Our plan gives you more control so you can choose the plan that best fits your needs—not Washington’s mandates.” Click here to view full video. Remarks of Representative John Ratcliffe of Texas Weekly Republican Address Rockwall, Texas October 29, 2016 Twenty-two percent. That’s how much more the average midlevel Obamacare plan will cost next year. Now that’s just an average. For many families, the increase will be much more. In Pennsylvania, the average increase will be 53 percent. In Tennessee, 63 percent. And in Arizona, the average increase will be—get this—116 percent. That translates to hundreds of dollars out of your pocket each and every month. This is money that you could be using to save for your children’s college education, to put food on the table or to pay your utility bills. And here in Texas, the Obama administration has just approved rate increases for health care plans that will go up as much as 70 percent. If you try switching your plan to avoid these sky-rocketing premiums, that, of course, means that you very well may have to find a new doctor or a new hospital. And if you’re getting treatment from a doctor you’ve trusted for years, it’s easier said than done to simply abandon that relationship and start over from scratch. So the reality is you’re stuck paying these higher premiums. If you do decide to switch coverage, you’ll have even less to choose from. Here’s how I can best illustrate it. This next year, ten times the number of customers using the federal exchange will have only one insurance company to choose from—if you can even call that a choice. As you can see, Obamacare is more than just another pile of broken promises. It’s the worst of all worlds. It’s higher costs and fewer choices. It’s less freedom and more government. It’s more uncertainty and less peace of mind. But there is a better way. Republicans are offering a plan to repeal Obamacare and replace it with real, sensible, patient-centered solutions. Because in a nation of 323 million people, it makes no sense for unelected bureaucrats to dictate your health insurance plans. Our plan gives you more control so you can choose the plan that best fits your needs—not Washington’s mandates. That means things like making it easier to take insurance from job to job. Giving small businesses more leverage to negotiate better rates. And finally allowing health insurance to be sold across state lines. This plan is one plank of the agenda we call a Better Way. You can get all the details by going to better.gop. A Better Way is built on our founding principles—of liberty, free enterprise, and consent of the governed. And it’s bold, too. In addition to health care, a Better Way takes on poverty. It takes on our broken tax code and the IRS. It takes on this sluggish economy. And it takes on big government—all of the overreach, all of the abuses, all of the arrogance coming out of Washington, DC. This plan restores the separation of powers needed to stop unelected bureaucrats from steamrolling hard-working Americans with regulations out of thin air. Look, we don’t have to throw in the towel on the tough issues. We can tackle them head-on. Instead of the usual finger-pointing, we can take a positive approach to the problems that we face. We can be open and transparent, and have a government that honors the Constitution and works for the people. We can bring hope, lean on one another, and share in the work of getting our country back on track. That really is a better way. ###
10.28.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement in response to the FBI’s announcement today that it would launch new investigative actions into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s use of an unsecured personal email system: “When Hillary Clinton was inexplicably let off the hook for her reckless mishandling of our country’s most sensitive national security information, the American people were rightfully outraged. Since then, I’ve taken aggressive action to hold Attorney General Loretta Lynch and FBI Director James Comey accountable for the enormous shadow of doubt cast over this investigation. The FBI’s new investigative steps on this case confirm the need to ensure that the whole truth is uncovered and that justice is finally served.” Last month, Ratcliffe introduced the Classified Information Protection Act (H.R.6034), which amends two statutes (18 U.S.C. 793(f) and 18 U.S.C. 1924) to clarify that intent to harm the United States is not required to prosecute individuals who grossly mishandle America’s most sensitive information. In exchanges with Congress, FBI Director Comey said the Department of Justice added factors to the criminal code into its consideration of Clinton’s case, which may have impacted FBI’s original decision not to prosecute. Ratcliffe has also led a coalition of 50 Members of Congress in calling for a special counsel to investigate the Clinton Foundation. ###
10.18.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement in response to newly released FBI documents showing that a sensitive file linked to former Secretary Hillary Clinton’s private server was found on a Romanian server. The file reportedly contained the names of known or suspected jihadists in Libya. “The facts emerging each day on the Clinton email investigation have been shocking on many levels, and as a former terrorism prosecutor, the growing pile of evidence on the exposure of our country’s most sensitive national security information leaves me particularly outraged. “The newly revealed link between Clinton’s private email server and Romanian actors further underscores the need to ensure her reckless behavior will never be allowed again – especially without punishment. This is precisely why I introduced the Classified Information Protection Act, and why I urge my colleagues to support this effort to combat any future acts of extreme carelessness that place our national security at risk.” Last month, Ratcliffe introduced the Classified Information Protection Act (H.R.6034), which amends two statutes (18 U.S.C. 793(f) and 18 U.S.C. 1924) to clarify that the law means exactly what it says – and that intent to harm the United States is not required to prosecute individuals who grossly mishandle America’s most sensitive information. The introduction of the Classified Information Protection Act was driven by FBI Director Comey’s application of an invisible, never-before-seen standard in his recommendation not to pursue criminal charges against former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton for her reckless use of unauthorized, unsecured email servers to send and receive emails containing classified information. “If this is the precedent, if this is the standard – what’s to prevent this same level of extreme carelessness in the future? What’s to stop the reckless disregard for the sensitivity of classified information from again jeopardizing the lives of Americans in harm’s way?” Ratcliffe said upon introducing the bill. Ratcliffe was joined in introducing the Classified Information Protection Act by four original cosponsors: House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), and Rep. Will Hurd (R-Texas), who served as an undercover officer in the CIA. ###
10.13.2016	Paris, Texas – The Office of Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) hosted the first-ever Emergency Management Summit this week to help emergency management professionals in Texas’ 4th District prepare for major weather disasters requiring federal assistance. Local emergency managers and county fire marshals from across all 18 counties in Ratcliffe’s district were invited to network, exchange ideas and lessons learned, and engage in candid conversation with representatives from federal agencies during the day-long Summit held in Paris, Texas. “As Northeast Texans, we’re all too familiar with the destruction and devastation that can be wreaked by natural disasters and severe weather. In fact, we’ve already faced four separate emergencies requiring federal aid since I’ve been in Congress,” Ratcliffe said. “I’ve certainly been inspired by the resilience our communities have shown in the wake of the disasters we’ve faced, and I realize that this powerful endurance was enhanced by collaboration between volunteers, first responders and folks at all levels of government. The Emergency Management Summit allowed professionals from across the region to combine their experiences and expertise to ensure we’re as prepared as possible when the next emergency strikes.” Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) speaks to emergency management officials at Summit In addition to open conversation at the Summit, Mark Fox of the National Weather Service discussed how integrated warning teams work together during severe weather to provide update on a variety of communications platforms. Then, Grayson County Emergency Manager and Vice Chair and Texas Emergency Management Advisory Committee Member, Sarah Somers, discussed the legal requirements that must be met by emergency managers when issuing emergency notifications to include people with disabilities, as well as promoting safety of individuals who are deployed to ensure accurate and timely warnings during disasters. Additionally, KXII Chief Meteorologist Steve LaNore discussed the region’s projected weather outlook after the past several years of tumultuous weather patterns; City of Rowlett Emergency Management Specialist Ed Balderas discussed the lessons learned from the tornadoes that hit Northeast Texas last December; and Mark Right from FEMA discussed an overview of the agency and its available services during disaster response efforts. Attendees included city and county emergency management professionals from: Fannin, Franklin, Grayson, Hopkins, Lamar, Morris, Rains, Rockwall and Upshur counties; and a representative from the Ark-Tex Council of Governments, which includes: Bowie, Cass, Delta, Franklin, Hopkins, Lamar, Morris, Red River and Titus Counties. ###
09.28.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) exposed troubling new details today surrounding the Clinton email investigation during his questioning of FBI Director James Comey before the House Judiciary Committee. In the exchange, Ratcliffe focused on implications of the facts revealed by documents released by the FBI after Comey initially announced his recommendation not to press criminal charges against former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Ratcliffe’s exchange with Comey showed that: In his multi-decade career as a prosecutor Comey could not recall a single instance in which two key witnesses of a criminal investigation were allowed to sit in on an interview with the principle target of that same investigation, as was the case in the Clinton email investigation. The FBI appears to have focused on only two portions of criminal code related to the mishandling of sensitive information, specifically in regard to Clinton herself, while ignoring the possible destruction of evidence and obstruction of justice by other parties. In fact, Comey readily admitted that Paul Combetta, who destroyed emails records of Hillary Clinton with Bleach Bit despite a preservation request to retain them, lied to federal investigators before receiving immunity. “As a former federal prosecutor, I can tell you that it’s unheard of for a potential key witness to be present when the target of an investigation is being interviewed. In fact, I’ve never seen it. And Comey admitted he’s never seen it. The American people have every right to wonder why this occurred in Clinton’s case – this isn’t the treatment anyone else in our country would have received, and it frankly appears that the outcome of this investigation was predetermined from the start,” Ratcliffe said. “But perhaps even more astonishing when it comes to this investigation, is the fact that despite the overwhelming evidence of obstruction of justice by a number of actors close to Clinton, no one – not a single soul – was held accountable. In any other case, against any other person, I can assure you the outcome would have been different.” View the full video here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3-dH9Iey4uw&feature=youtu.be. ###
09.23.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) voted this week to permanently prohibit the U.S. from making ransom payments or cash payments to Iran. The Prohibiting Future Ransom Payments to Iran Act (H.R. 5931), which passed in the House, clearly establishes that the Obama administration violated U.S. policy by paying ransom in exchange for the release of American hostages. Further, it forbids all cash payments to Iran in any currency and requires transparency on any future settlements of this kind. “Americans were rightfully outraged when news broke that the Obama administration circumvented our nation’s longstanding policy of refusing to negotiate with terrorists when it made a $400 million cash payment to Iran in exchange for the release of American hostages – against the advice of its own Justice Department. Worse yet, this was only one chunk of a whopping $1.7 billion that was paid to the world’s leading state sponsor of terror – a decision made without input from senior Pentagon officials or Congress,” Ratcliffe said. “Although the president refuses to come clean that his cash exchange with Iran constituted ransom, my colleagues and I have passed legislation that confirms just the opposite and prevents this type of reckless action from happening ever again. Just as I said in regard to the Iran nuclear deal – we cannot afford to play games with a country that has proven its desire to harm America and our allies. We must take our enemies at face value and fully recognize the threats they pose to the United States and the rest of the free world.” ###
09.22.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) formally launched his newly created Congressional Student Leadership Program (CSLP) Wednesday, which includes 86 high schoolers from across Texas’ 4th District for the 2016-2017 school year. The CSLP students gathered for their first-ever meeting in three physical locations: Sherman, Rockwall and Texarkana, using Internet streaming to connect together. To kick off the meeting, Ratcliffe streamed in from Washington for an introduction. The remainder of the meeting focused on the functions of the federal government as defined by the U.S. Constitution, laying the foundation for the in-depth policy discussions planned for the remainder of the school year. CSLP Students Meet at Texas A&M University-Commerce CSLP Students Meet at Grayson County Courthouse CSLP Students Meet at Texas A&M University – Texarkana University Center “I’m inspired by the high level of interest in our political system demonstrated by the 86 students who took initiative to participate in this program,” Ratcliffe said. “The students all bring diverse talents and perspectives to the table, which makes me confident about the positive impact they’ll have on the future of our country.” There will be three more CSLP meetings in the 2016-2017 school year, as well as a district-wide service project aimed at helping local veterans in November. The CSLP aims to teach high school students in Texas’ 4th District about the role of the federal government and functions of a congressional office while allowing them to engage with their congressman and discuss public policy issues affecting our country. Participants are selected based on their academic achievement, extracurricular involvement and demonstration of leadership. Applications 2017-2018 school year will be available in Spring 2017. Further details on the CSLP are available online at: ratcliffe.house.gov/congressional-student-leadership-program, and additional questions may be directed to Cole Moore at 972-771-0100 or cole.moore@mail.house.gov. ###
09.21.2016	Law enforcement officials from across the country confirmed the need for Rep. John Ratcliffe’s (R-Texas) legislation to protect access to life-saving defense equipment today before the House Homeland Security Committee. The exchange occurred in a hearing focused on the importance of strengthening preparedness, prevention and response efforts of local law enforcement officials in preventing terrorist and lone wolf attacks. In the hearing, witnesses described a variety of situations in which surplus defense equipment is critical to state and local police departments’ response efforts, including high-water flood rescues and hours-long standoffs with armed attackers. They then expressed serious concern about changes pursuant to an Executive Order issued last year that restricted access to a key federal program – the “1033 Program” – which transfers certain federal defense surplus equipment to state and local law enforcement agencies. Click on the picture above to view Ratcliffe’s full hearing exchange. Oakland County Sheriff Michael J. Bouchard, who testified on behalf of the Major County Sheriffs’ Association, highlighted the dangers posed by the administration’s actions to limit the 1033 Program and confirmed his support for reversing this decision. “We have – pretty much across the board – seen the 1033 extremely helpful in assisting law enforcement in challenging days and times. I think we saw real-time evidence of that in San Bernardino with the use of armored vehicles and tactical equipment to save lives. The day that was playing out, we received an order from Washington to return our track vehicle – that day. And it was loaded on a flatbed and the intent was to blow it up,” Bouchard said. “Based on the answer that you just gave me, would you agree with me that the president’s decision to eliminate [access to] this program is jeopardizing the safety and well-being of your officers?” Ratcliffe asked. “I certainly would agree with that statement. In fact, I said that after San Bernardino, the sheriff – a friend of mine – said they came prepared, and America’s less prepared as we sent back our armored vehicles that same day,” Bouchard said. Ratcliffe, who introduced the Protecting Lives Using Surplus (PLUS) Equipment Act of 2016 (H.R. 4880) earlier this year to stop the president’s unilateral changes to restrict access to the 1033 Program, said the witnesses’ testimony further reinforced the pressing need to restore access to the life-saving equipment it provides. “Today’s hearing makes it abundantly clear that the president’s decision to unilaterally cut access to potentially life-saving equipment jeopardizes not only the safety of our state and local officers themselves, but also the communities that they bravely protect. This politically driven, knee-jerk reaction must be reversed, and I’m grateful for this legislation’s strong support by Members of Congress all across the country. Now, more than ever, we must stand behind our law enforcement officers and their ongoing commitment to our protection.” ###
09.14.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) introduced legislation today to clarify the laws governing America’s most sensitive national security information. The introduction of the Classified Information Protection Act was driven by the Justice Department’s recent decision not to pursue criminal charges against former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton for her reckless use of unauthorized, unsecured email servers to send and receive emails containing classified information. In exchanges with Congress, FBI Director James Comey said the Department of Justice added factors to the criminal code in its consideration of this case, which may have impacted the decision not to prosecute. The Classified Information Protection Act amends two statutes (18 U.S.C. 793(f) and 18 U.S.C. 1924) to clarify that the law means exactly what it says – and that intent to harm the United States is not required to prosecute individuals who grossly mishandle America’s most sensitive information. Ratcliffe is joined in introducing the bill by four original cosponsors: House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), and Rep. Will Hurd (R-Texas), who served as an undercover officer in the CIA. Despite overwhelming evidence uncovered by the FBI that Clinton was “extremely careless” in her handling of highly classified information, Director James Comey said he recommended not pursuing criminal charges because there was no clear evidence proving her intent. The Classified Information Protection Act aims to correct this disconnect between the law as it is written and its interpretation as applied in this case. “The American people were rightfully shocked when criminal charges were not pursued against Hillary Clinton in light of the fact pattern presented by the FBI,” Ratcliffe said. “If this is the precedent, if this is the standard – what’s to prevent this same level of extreme carelessness in the future? What’s to stop the reckless disregard for the sensitivity of classified information from again jeopardizing the lives of Americans in harm’s way?” Reports released from the FBI’s investigation of Clinton’s use of private email servers revealed: 81 email chains were classified at the time they were sent. Hostile foreign actors” successfully hacked the accounts of Clinton’s close aides, gaining access to emails sent from her private servers. One of Clinton’s private servers was successfully hacked by an individual using Tor. “While Mrs. Clinton’s saga has brought this issue to light, this bill reaches far beyond her individual case. It’s about giving the American people confidence that our most sensitive matters of national security will never again be exposed to our adversaries without consequence. It assures the public that officials in positions of power are not above the law and must handle sensitive national security information in a manner worthy of the office they’ve reached. We must ensure that anyone – not just Hillary Clinton – will be held accountable by the law for putting our national security at risk in this way,” Ratcliffe said. Ratcliffe is a former federal prosecutor who served as the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Texas from 2007 to 2008 and as a federal terrorism prosecutor from 2004 to 2007. As a member of the House Judiciary Committee, he recently led the charge in Congress to demand a special counsel to investigate pay-to-play tactics at the Clinton Foundation. ###
08.30.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) today led a group of 50 Members of Congress in demanding that U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch appoint a special counsel to investigate the Clinton Foundation for allegedly using illegal tactics to allow its donors inappropriate access and influence over former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. “Seemingly every day the American people learn shocking new details about the operations of the Clinton Foundation. The facts as reported certainly suggest that the Clinton Foundation existed as a slush fund to the State Department where donors received extraordinary levels of access to and influence over then Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. The fact that over half of Secretary Clinton's meetings with non-government officials were with individuals who donated to the Clinton Foundation simply cannot be coincidence. The potential implications here are enormous, and the country deserves answers. “When I questioned Attorney General Lynch last month on her decision to not pursue charges against Hillary Clinton for her use of an unauthorized, unsecured email server, she astonishingly refused to rule out future employment in a potential Clinton administration. She additionally refused to comment on recusing herself from any potential investigation into the Clinton Foundation, despite a well-publicized meeting she had just had with former President Bill Clinton on an airport runway. It's clear that at this juncture, and in light of these facts, a special counsel is necessary to ensure there aren't two tracts of justice in America. “I'm grateful for the 50 Members of Congress who have joined me in this effort – elected representatives from all corners of the country, including a number of former prosecutors. The people we represent simply want the truth, and we're committed to delivering it to them,” Ratcliffe said. The full text of the letter can be viewed here, or below: Dear Attorney General Lynch: We request you take immediate steps to appoint a special counsel, pursuant to 28 C.F.R. § 600.1 to investigate the Clinton Foundation and alleged “pay to play” tactics where donors to the Clinton Foundation were able to obtain inappropriate access to and influence over then Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Under Department of Justice regulations, you have the grounds to appoint a special counsel when it is determined “that criminal investigation of a person or matter is warranted” and that the investigation of that person or matter “by a United States Attorney’s Office or litigating Division of the Department of Justice would present a conflict of interest for the Department or other extraordinary circumstances.” We strongly believe that these criteria are met. Consider: A recent report by the Associated Press indicates that “At least 85 of 154 people from private interests who met or had phone conversations scheduled with Clinton while she led the State Department donated to her family charity or pledged commitments to its international programs.” Combined, it is believed these donors contributed as much as $156 million, with 50 giving at least $100,000 and 20 giving over $1 million. The report goes on to say “the frequency of the overlaps shows the intermingling of access and donations, and fuels perceptions that giving foundation money was a price of admission for face time with Clinton.” Further casting a shadow of doubt over this arrangement is the recent announcement by the Clinton Foundation that it will stop accepting donations from foreign governments if Hillary Clinton is elected President of the United States. This begs the obvious question about why an inappropriately cozy relationship between the Clinton Foundation and its donors with the President of the United States is deemed unethical, but the same relationship between the Secretary of State and candidate for president were not. All of this makes it very unclear where the State Department ended and where the Clinton Foundation began. Official business of the United States government, the State Department most certainly included, should be conducted in a manner that prioritizes the best interests of the American people, not the special needs of the well-connected donors to a largely unaccountable foundation. Americans have by and large lost faith in their government and rightfully so. The facts as they have been reported surrounding the Clinton Foundation warrant an investigation that is beyond reproach and beyond any appearance of political favoritism. Appointing a special counsel is a necessary step at this juncture. ###
08.08.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) announced today Kathleen Connor as the new regional representative in his Sherman district office. Connor will replace Kris McKinney, who recently retired from the position to spend more time with her young grandchildren. Connor is a U.S. Navy veteran and has lived in Sherman for the past decade with her husband, Charles Connor. Prior to serving as Rep. Ratcliffe’s regional representative, she worked with USACE, Texas Workforce Commission, Grayson College and Texoma Workforce Solutions. She also worked as a teacher in various countries while her husband served on active duty. “Having had the privilege to be raised as a military dependent, serve on active duty in the U.S. Navy, and later as the spouse of a Navy retiree, I am grateful for this opportunity to return to the service our great nation in a new and exciting way,” Connor said. “The prospect of serving on the congressional staff of a representative who is so well known for his integrity and commitment in fighting for all of us makes me even more proud of this selection and opportunity – it is a true honor.” Connor is one of multiple veterans on Rep. Ratcliffe’s staff, which also includes veterans of the U.S. Army and Air Force. She holds a bachelor’s degree from Texas A&M Kingsville. “With Kathleen’s extensive leadership experience and deep community ties in the area, I’m positive that she will make quite an impact as the new regional representative in my Sherman district office,” Ratcliffe said. “I also want to thank former regional representative Kris McKinney for all of the great work she contributed on behalf of Texas’ 4th District during her service on my staff. She will be greatly missed.” On Friday, Aug. 19 from 4 to 6 p.m., Rep. Ratcliffe will host and attend an open house at the Grayson County Courthouse at 100 W. Houston Street in Sherman. It is free and open to the public and will offer an opportunity to meet Connor, bid farewell to McKinney and discuss legislative issues with Rep. Ratcliffe. ###
08.01.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) announced today the launch of the Congressional Student Leadership Program (CSLP) for high school students in Texas’ 4th District. The Program aims to teach students about the role of the federal government and functions of a congressional office while allowing them to engage with their congressman and discuss public policy issues affecting our country. “It’s important to realize that today’s students will be tomorrow’s leaders. I’m proud that the Congressional Student Leadership Program will offer young folks in Texas’ 4th District the opportunity to grow the skills they need to make a real impact in their communities – now and in the future,” Ratcliffe said. “We’ve got a lot of bright students throughout the 18 counties I’m proud to represent, and I’m sure the work they accomplish through the Program will be quite impressive.” Each fall, the Program will include a group of students to participate for the duration of the school year who will be selected based on their academic achievement, extracurricular involvement and demonstration of leadership. Applications for the 2016-2017 school year must be submitted by Friday, Aug. 19. Applications and further details are available online at: ratcliffe.house.gov/congressional-student-leadership-program. Additional questions may be directed to Cole Moore at 972-771-0100 or cole.moore@mail.house.gov. ###
07.25.2016	The office of Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) announced today the addition of Wounded Warrior Fellow, Charles Jordan, to the district staff. Jordan, a U.S. Army combat veteran, will serve as a constituent services liaison in the Texarkana office. “With more than 700,000 constituents and 63,000 veterans in Texas’ 4th District, it’s critical that my staff is equipped to handle each of their unique needs,” Ratcliffe said. “I’m grateful that Charles – a veteran himself – is joining our team to help ensure we can best serve all constituents – and especially our veterans. With his hire, I’m proud that my staff now includes veterans of the U.S. Army, Air Force and Navy.” Prior to joining Ratcliffe’s staff, Jordan served in Operation Iraqi Freedom III from 2006 to 2007. He then served as a Military Technician for the DoD-USARC from 2009 to 2016. He was also deployed in support of Task Force Rita and Task Force Katrina. He said he felt called to join the military following the 9/11 terrorist attacks. “Congressman Ratcliffe’s commitment to veterans is well known, and I am glad to be a member of his team. I look forward to helping to make an impact on the lives veterans and on all constituents in the district,” Jordan said. As a constituent services liaison, Jordan’s primary responsibilities will include: processing veteran and military casework requests, helping veterans and service members navigate federal government agencies and veteran outreach. Last year alone, Ratcliffe’s staff served more than 850 constituents and helped recover $280,000 in frozen VA benefits. Jordan has lived in the Texarkana area for 15 years with his wife and five children where he serves the community through his involvement with his church, the Randy Sam’s Homeless Shelter and prison ministry. He holds a bachelor’s degree from Texas A&M University-Texarkana, an associate degree from Anchor Theological Seminary & Bible Institute and is pursuing a master’s degree in instructional technology from Texas A&M-Texarkana. The Wounded Warrior Program was established to create fellowships that will provide employment opportunities for wounded or disabled veterans within the House of Representatives. Those selected for the program are employed by the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer but will be given the opportunity to work in Member, committee and leadership offices and, if a fit is found, transition into full-time employment. ###
07.14.2016	Reps. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) and Jim Langevin (D-R.I.) introduced legislation today aimed at strengthening collaborative cybersecurity research and development efforts with Israel. The two bills come on the heels of the lawmakers’ congressional delegation trip to Israel in May, which focused on key cybersecurity issues facing both countries. “Israel is our strongest and most trusted ally in the Middle East, and I’m proud to be partnering with Rep. Langevin on efforts that will grow and strengthen this bond through long-term collaboration on cybersecurity efforts between our countries,” Ratcliffe said. “Our recent discussions with Prime Minister Netanyahu confirmed just how important it is that we unite forces to formulate ongoing, effective strategies to best address the rapidly evolving cyber threats faced by both of our nations. After all, cybersecurity is national security, and we must be doing everything we can to fortify ourselves from the very real dangers posed by malicious cyber actors.” “The United States and Israel are the two top exporters of cybersecurity technologies,” said Langevin. “Our bills will leverage the reservoirs of expertise in both nations to advance the frontiers of cyber science, and I appreciate Chairman Ratcliffe’s leadership on these issues. Cybersecurity is the security challenge of our age, and developing innovative ways of managing the risk we face demands cooperation with our close allies like Israel.” The United States-Israel Cybersecurity Cooperation Enhancement Act of 2016 will create a cybersecurity grant program for joint R&D ventures between Israeli and American entities. These peer-reviewed proposals will be tailored to research requirements determined by the Secretary of Homeland Security in conjunction with an advisory board with members from successful US-Israeli partnerships including the United States-Israel Binational Science Foundation and the United, States-Israel Binational Industrial Research and Development Foundation. The United States-Israel Advanced Research Partnership Act of 2016 expands a successful binational R&D program at the Homeland Security Advanced Research Projects Agency to include cybersecurity technologies. This collaboration between DHS and the Israeli Ministry of Public Security helps new products through the “valley of death” between basic and early-phase applied research and successful commercialization, and will help both countries develop solutions to the unique security problems found in the cyber domain. Ratcliffe chairs the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Security Technologies. Langevin is the co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Cybersecurity Caucus. ###
07.13.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) grilled U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch at a House Judiciary Committee Hearing today on her decision not to press criminal charges against former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton following the FBI’s investigation on her use of an unsecured personal email system. Despite the FBI’s findings of “extreme carelessness” by Clinton in mishandling our country’s most sensitive matters of national security, when pressed by Ratcliffe, Lynch refused to rule out serving in a potential Clinton Administration. In response, Ratcliffe said: “That shadow which you cast on the Department of Justice just got a whole lot bigger. Because if you’re not willing to rule out future employment in the Hillary Clinton Administration, what that means is the American people have every right to wonder whether or not you looked at this through a fair and impartial lens, because your answer tells the American people that after the FBI Director told you that Ms. Clinton had been extremely careless with at least 110 emails marked as top secret, secret or classified and may have jeopardized the lives of actual Americans, and told you that she made numerous false public statements about sending, receiving or turning over classified materials, you might want to apply for a job with her? “Your answer not ruling out employment with her means that as much of the free world is wondering whether or not Hillary Clinton should have been prosecuted and possibly sent to prison for being extremely careless as the FBI Director said, with hundreds of top secret, secret, and classified emails, you’re telling the American people watching today, that instead of going to jail, faced with the prospect of possible future employment, you think that she should go to the other end of the spectrum and be eligible to be the person with greater access and greater control over America’s sensitive and trusted national security information than anyone else on the planet? I’ve got to tell you, utter shock is an understatement with respect to what I just heard you say.” Ratcliffe also pressured Lynch for answers on the nature of her review process – a question of heightened importance considering the well-publicized meeting between Lynch and former President Bill Clinton just days before Comey’s recommendation and Lynch’s subsequent decision to not pursue criminal charges. Lynch then refused to answer the most basic questions about the nature of her review. Specifically: She refused to answer whether her final decision weighed the strength of the evidence and the context of Hillary Clinton’s actions. She could not recall how long her meeting with the FBI lasted to review its recommendation on the Clinton email case. She refused to answer whether during her review of the FBI’s investigation she at least reviewed the 110 emails containing classified information that we know Hillary Clinton sent and received on an unsecured, unauthorized server. Ratcliffe responded to Lynch’s shocking lack of transparency with the following: “After a yearlong investigation involving 150 FBI agents working around the clock involving more than 30,000 emails, tens of thousands of man hours, that your thoughtful, careful weighing of the strength of evidence took you an afternoon? A cup of coffee with the FBI Director? That your decision in this case for charges relating to a person who according to the FBI Director was extremely careless handling America’s most sensitive national security matters, and is seeking to be a candidate in charge of America’s most sensitive national security matters took the better part of an afternoon? It didn’t last weeks. It didn’t last months. It didn’t take days. You weighed that evidence and determined her intent and gross negligence in a matter of hours.” Click here to view Ratcliffe’s full dialogue with Lynch. Ratcliffe has taken action to ensure that Clinton isn’t allowed to be held to a different standard of justice based on preferential treatment. Last week, he joined 200 House Republicans in demanding answers to a series of questions raised by the FBI’s investigation and recommendation on Clinton. He is supportive of House Republicans’ effort launched Monday requesting an investigation of Clinton for lying under oath before Congress. Also today, Ratcliffe’s original legislation, the Separation of Powers Restoration Act of 2016 (H.R. 4768) passed in the House of Representatives to reverse Constitutional erosion and stop overreach by administrative agencies. ###
07.12.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe’s (R-Texas) legislation to reverse Constitutional erosion and stop overreach by administrative agencies passed the U.S. House of Representatives today by a vote of 240 to 171. The Separation of Powers Restoration Act (SOPRA) of 2016 (H.R. 4768) seeks to restore three co-equal branches of government by abolishing the doctrine that has enabled administrative agencies to create rules that have the force of law. “For too long Americans have lived in a regulatory state where unelected bureaucrats are leveraging a 1984 Supreme Court decision to regulate far beyond the bounds originally defined by the Constitution. It’s time that we put an end to this ongoing abuse of the separation of powers,” Ratcliffe said. “I’m grateful for the broad support this legislation received, because when the Constitution is defended, it’s the American people who win. They are rightfully sick and tired of faceless, unelected bureaucrats engaging in de-facto lawmaking to make their lives more difficult. This bill says that tipping the scales in favor of the regulators is no longer acceptable.” Ratcliffe’s bill overturns a 1984 Supreme Court decision (Chevron v. NRDC) which ruled that courts should, in many cases, defer to administrative agencies’ interpretations of “ambiguous” statutes written by Congress. H.R. 4768 would amend the Administrative Procedure Act to require courts to conduct a “de novo” – or from scratch – review of all relevant questions of law, rather than leaving such interpretation up to the whims of federal bureaucrats. A Senate version of the bill, introduced by Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) has 12 cosponsors, including Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah) and Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas). Click here to view Ratcliffe’s full floor speech on SOPRA. Click here to view Ratcliffe’s joint video with House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) on SOPRA. Ratcliffe also grilled Attorney General Loretta Lynch Tuesday on her decision to not pursue criminal charges against Hillary Clinton for mishandling highly classified national security materials. Click here to view Ratcliffe’s exchange with Lynch. ###
07.08.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement in response to FBI Director James Comey’s testimony before the U.S. House of Representatives Thursday regarding the FBI investigation of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s use of an unsecured personal email system: “After listening to more than four hours of testimony from Director Comey, I am left with zero doubt that Hillary Clinton is disqualified from holding higher office and from handling sensitive national security information ever again. The facts provided by Comey clearly confirm that Clinton was grossly negligent in the handling of our nation’s most sensitive intelligence, showing total disregard for the safety of the men and women who put themselves in danger every day to protect this nation. Clinton prioritized personal convenience and secrecy over Americans’ safety, and then repeatedly lied about her actions. I join my fellow Members of Congress in demanding that the Director of National Intelligence prohibit Clinton from further accessing sensitive materials and requesting that Director Comey release the unclassified documents from his investigation to the public. Further, as a former federal prosecutor myself, it’s important to reinforce that I disagree entirely with Director Comey’s recommendation and Attorney General Loretta Lynch’s decision that Clinton not be prosecuted; as I believe the facts Director Comey presented demand the opposite: Clinton said nothing marked as classified was sent or received over her email. Director Comey confirmed that hundreds of emails marked as classified were, in fact, sent and received. Clinton said she used only one device. Comey confirmed that she, in fact, used multiple devices during her time as Secretary of State. Clinton said that all work-related emails were turned over to the State Department. Comey confirmed that there were thousands that were not handed over. I share the frustration of my fellow citizens that Clinton will not be held accountable by the legal system. However, she still can and should be held accountable by the American people who rightfully recognize that it’s unacceptable for there to be two different standards of justice in this country. After all, the timeless image of Lady Justice is blindfolded to symbolize that there should be no preferential treatment based on power, wealth or prestige – because no one in our society is above the law.” ###
06.30.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) led 111 House colleagues last week in calling for clarification on compliance dates for the EPA’s sweeping energy regulations issued last August. This effort comes on the heels of the Supreme Court’s February decision to push pause on the implementation of the so-called “Clean Power Plan” regulations until their legality is determined in court. According to the Department of Justice (DOJ), placing a hold on the implementation of the EPA’s regulations implicitly extended all associated interim deadlines. However, EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy contradicted this in a March hearing before the House Energy and Commerce Committee when she said, “Well that’s not what the Supreme Court said, but we assume that the courts will make that judgement over time or will leave that to the EPA to make their own judgement.” As a result, it remains unclear whether parties subject to the EPA’s regulations should move forward with costly compliance measures despite the immediate – and potentially permanent – hold on their actual implementation or risk being penalized for not meeting deadlines if their legality is upheld. “From the moment the administration released its so-called ‘Clean Power Plan’ as a part of the president’s radical agenda on climate change, it was clear these sweeping regulations would wreak havoc on hard-working families and businesses in Texas and throughout the country,” Ratcliffe said. “It came as no surprise that the legality of these regulations has been repeatedly challenged, and it is simply unfair to leave Americans in the dark on whether the interim deadlines for compliance will be extended in accordance with the Supreme Court’s decision to delay final implementation.” Ratcliffe has been committed to combatting the EPA’s harmful regulations since they were first announced by the administration last year. In September, he introduced disapproval measures (H.J. Res. 68 and H.J. Res. 67) in the House aimed at preventing skyrocketing energy costs and the elimination of jobs across the country projected to result from the regulations. In December, he voted for nearly identical measures (S.J. Res. 23 and S.J. Res. 24), which passed in both the House and Senate. Click here to view the full letter sent to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy. ###
06.27.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s 5-3 ruling today against a Texas law regulating health standards in abortion facilities across the state in Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt: “Today I join my fellow defenders of life in deep disappointment over the Supreme Court’s decision against a Texas law that was designed to protect women’s health and the well-being of their unborn children. While this may represent a setback in our fight to protect life at all stages, it nonetheless demonstrates just how vital it is that we not give up in our efforts on this important cause. I will remain committed to advancing legislation that ensures the safety of women and unborn children in Texas and across the country.” Since coming to Congress, Ratcliffe has been adamant in his efforts to protect unborn life: Voted YES on and was an original cosponsor of the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015 (H.R. 3134) which passed the House in September 2015 to impose a one-year moratorium on halt sources of Federal funding to Planned Parenthood and its affiliates. Voted YES on and was an original cosponsor of the Pain Capable and Unborn Child Protection Act (H.R. 36) which passed the House in May 2015 to protect unborn children from abortions after 20 weeks. Voted YES on the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act (H.R. 7) which passed the House in January 2015 to prevent taxpayer funds from being used for abortion. Original Cosponsor of the Protecting Life and Taxpayers Act of 2015 (H.R. 3197) which aims to permanently prohibits all Federal funding from going to entities that provide abortions or fund entities that provide abortions. This primarily encompasses funding from HHS and USDA. Medicaid, Title X, and WIC funding are also all included in this prohibition. Original Cosponsor of the Life at Conception Act (H.R. 816) which aims to clarify that human life begins at the moment of conception and, as a result, the unborn are entitled to legal protection under the Constitution. ###
06.24.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) welcomed the grand prize winner of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition, Rylie Power, to Washington today during her visit to the capital for the unveiling and award ceremony. Her winning artwork, “Elephant,” was hung in the Capitol building where it will remain on display amidst national lawmakers for one year. Power and her father join Ratcliffe for the unveiling of her winning artwork in the Capitol The Congressional Art Competition is an annual competition sponsored by the Congressional Institute, which gives students the opportunity to share their talent with visitors to the Capitol. Power, of Texas High School in Texarkana, was selected as the grand prize winner for Texas’ Fourth District in April by a panel of judges who assessed submissions from high school students in all 18 counties represented by Ratcliffe. Ratcliffe gives Power and her father an exclusive view of Washington at the Capitol Power used a technique called “pointillism,” in which small, distinct dots of color are applied in patterns to form an image, to create her piece with a Sharpie marker. “There was an incredible array of talent on display from students all across the country who participated in this year’s art competition – but Rylie’s piece certainly stands out,” Ratcliffe said. “It was a pleasure to meet Rylie and her father and to show them around the Capitol when they visited Washington. She’s a bright young woman with a big future ahead of her, and I encourage her to continue her pursuit of art.” ###
06.24.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s 4-4 decision to effectively block the president’s use of executive action to grant amnesty to illegal immigrants in U.S. v. Texas: “The Supreme Court’s decision is a win for the Constitution and the American people. It reinforces that the President cannot write the laws of this nation. The ruling blocks President Obama's use of executive action to grant amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants – an action the president himself said was unconstitutional more than 20 times. I've been resolute in my efforts to combat this abuse of power, introducing the Executive Amnesty Prevention Act (H.R. 1715) as one of my first bills in Congress, filing an amicus brief in support of Texas as this case moved through the process, and voting for a resolution to allow the House of Representatives to intervene in this case when it came before the Supreme Court.” Since coming to Congress, Ratcliffe has taken several decisive actions in the fight to stop President Obama’s sweeping executive action on immigration: March 2015 – Ratcliffe introduced his own legislation, the Executive Amnesty Prevention Act of 2015 (H.R. 1715) to halt the president’s use of executive action to grant amnesty to up to 5 million illegal immigrants on the basis that he was exceeding his constitutional authority. May 2015 – Ratcliffe teamed up with a coalition of lawmakers, led by Sens. John Cornyn (R-Texas), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Reps. Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Lamar Smith (R-Texas) to file an amicus brief in support of Texas’ right to block the president’s use of executive action on immigration when it was before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit. March 2016 – Ratcliffe voted for H.Res. 639, authorizing the House of Representatives to intervene in the case challenging the president’s executive action on immigration when it was before the Supreme Court. April 2016 – Ratcliffe joins House in sending the amicus brief to the Supreme Court, expressing unified opposition to the president’s executive overreach in his actions on immigration. ###
06.21.2016	The U.S. House of Representatives passed two cybersecurity bills today, introduced by Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas), with overwhelming bipartisan support. The legislation focuses on helping the government adapt to the rapidly evolving challenges posed by cyber adversaries. Specifically, the Support for Rapid Innovation Act of 2016 (H.R. 5388) provides for more effective coordination with industry and academia to foster research and development of cybersecurity technologies. And the Leveraging Emerging Technologies Act of 2016 (H.R. 5389) encourages engagement between the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and emerging technology developers to help get our government’s cybersecurity defense and response capabilities caught up with the digital age. “Over the last several years we’ve witnessed evolving cybersecurity threats from nation-states such as China, Russia, North Korea and Iran, and from criminal organizations and terrorist groups such as ISIS. And on top of this, cyber criminals are continuing to develop even more cutting-edge cyber capabilities,” Ratcliffe said. “With these growing cyber threats posing significant danger to our homeland and critical infrastructure, it is critical that our government keep pace by actively working with the private sector to find solutions to protect our networks.” Ratcliffe is chairman of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Security Technologies, where he’s focused on bringing cybersecurity defenses up to speed with the sophistication of cyber threats. ###
06.17.2016	In the wake of the terror attack in Orlando, Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) voted this week to strengthen the military’s ability to combat terrorist threats posed by groups like ISIS, as a part of his ongoing commitment to providing for the common defense. Specifically, Ratcliffe voted for and the House passed (H.R. 5293) to ensure funding for military operations aimed at defeating terrorists, and to support our country’s overall national security priorities for Fiscal Year 2017. “A primary duty of the federal government as enumerated in the Constitution is to provide for the common defense, and in equipping our military to defend our country, we’re ensuring they have the tools they need to defeat ISIS once and for all,” Ratcliffe said. “As a former federal terrorism prosecutor and as a member of the House Homeland Security Committee, I won’t give up fighting to ensure our citizens are protected from the dangers posed by radical Islamist extremism, which ultimately means eradicating the terrorist groups like ISIS that are responsible for directing or inspiring horrific attacks like we witnessed in Orlando.” H.R. 5293 supports overseas operations to continue combating threats to the United States, fully funds a 2.1 percent raise for our service men and women, maintains prohibitions on transfers of detainees from Guantanamo Bay or its closure, prevents another round of base realignment and closure (BRAC), funds cooperation programs with Israel to support missile defense programs, prohibits the Department of Defense (DoD) from using funds to focus on climate change, prohibits DoD from housing unaccompanied alien children on military installations, and protects the 1033 military surplus program. Ratcliffe also voted for the Countering Terrorist Radicalization Act (H.R. 5471), comprised of three previously passed counterterrorism measures that were stalled in the Senate, and he cautioned his colleagues in the House and Senate not to let down their guard. “Now is not the time to pat ourselves on the back,” he said. “This is a fight we simply cannot afford to lose.” Ratcliffe is a member of the House Homeland Security Committee and was selected as a member of the Homeland Security Task Force on Combatting Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel. Before coming to Congress, he served as a U.S. Attorney and terrorism prosecutor where his efforts put individuals who were funneling money to terrorist organizations in federal prison. ###
06.08.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe’s (R-Texas) legislation to stop overreach by administrative agencies was approved by a vote of 12 to 8 in the House Judiciary Committee today. The Separation of Powers Restoration Act (SOPRA) of 2016 (H.R. 4768) seeks to restore three co-equal branches of government by reversing the doctrine that has enabled administrative agencies to create rules that have the force of law. “By allowing federal agencies to play free and loose in their interpretation of the laws they implement, we’re allowing unelected bureaucrats to grade their own papers – and ultimately it’s the American people that are hurt by this circumvention of the Constitution,” Ratcliffe said. “I’d like to thank Chairman Goodlatte for his support in moving this much-needed legislation, and I’m hopeful my colleagues will join me in defending the separation of powers designed by our Founding Fathers if this bill is brought before the full House of Representatives.” House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) was an original cosponsor of H.R. 4768 and expressed his strong support for the measure. “Today's federal administrative state is an institution unforeseen by the Framers of our Constitution that has turned into a runaway regulatory state.” Goodlatte said. “As a result, our system of checks and balances is tipping away from the legislative and judicial branches, and toward a vast, overreaching executive branch. The precedent set by Chevron has been a catalyst for this imbalance in our system of government, and SOPRA will tip the scales back to the way our Framers intended.” Ratcliffe’s bill overturns a 1984 Supreme Court decision (Chevron v. NRDC) which ruled that courts should, in many cases, defer to administrative agencies’ interpretations of “ambiguous” statutes written by Congress. H.R. 4768 would amend the Administrative Procedure Act to require courts to conduct a “de novo” – or from scratch – review of all relevant questions of law, rather than leaving such interpretation up to the whims of federal bureaucrats. H.R. 4768 has 111 cosponsors in the House of Representatives, including every Republican member of the House Judiciary Committee. The Senate version of the bill, introduced by Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) has 12 cosponsors, including Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and Senator Mike Lee (R-Utah). Click here to view Ratcliffe’s opening statement on H.R. 4768. ###
05.19.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) voted this week in favor of the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to boost support for America’s military and to enhance national defense capabilities. The legislation authorizes the $602.2 billion in funding necessary to restore adequate readiness for our armed forces, protect our homeland from rapidly evolving threats and provide our troops with the resources they need to be successful. “The Constitution makes it abundantly clear that providing for the common defense is not a suggestion,” Ratcliffe said. “It is one of the primary duties of the federal government – and as former terrorism prosecutor, I’m committed to ensuring that we fulfill this vital obligation. Our men in women in harm’s way deserve nothing less.” Specifically, the 2017 NDAA included the following notable provisions: Increases pay for service members by 2.1 percent and bars the president from blocking this raise Prevents Guantanamo Bay detainee transfers to the United States Combats terrorism and radical Islamist extremists Reverses the drawdown on troop numbers Strengthens support for Israel with funds for Israeli cooperative missile defense including the Iron Dome Prioritizes cyber defense capabilities Clarifies and affirms protections for religious organizations that contract with the federal government. In addition to the NDAA, Ratcliffe voted for the House-passed Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act (H.R. 4974) this week, which contained $81.6 billion in support of veterans’ benefits and programs, as well as military housing and bases in the U.S. and around the world. “I’m proud to represent 63,000 veterans in Texas’ Fourth District, and the legislation passed this week will help guarantee they receive the care and respect the most certainly have earned,” Ratcliffe said. Ratcliffe also added an amendment to this bill – which was adopted – to prevent funds from being used for another round of base realignment and closure (BRAC) at the Red River Army Depot. This measure will protect more than 5,000 jobs in the region that provide critical readiness capabilities to the Army. ###
05.16.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) announced today the People’s Choice winner for the 2016 Congressional Art Competition: Katelyn Garst of Prosper High School. A panel of judges selected the top-ten finalists out of submissions from high school students across Texas’ Fourth District, and the People’s Choice winner was awarded to the artwork which garnered the most likes on Facebook and Instagram during a two-week voting period open to the public. Garst’s winning artwork, “Hands Playing Flute,” was produced using chalk pastels over a collage made of sheet music. It accumulated more than 500 likes on Instagram and Facebook combined, and it will be displayed in Ratcliffe’s Washington office for one year. Her piece was one of four submissions from Prosper High School that were selected as top-ten finalists in the 2016 Competition. “Girl at the Computer” by Jackson Lloyd, also of Prosper High School, was named by the panel of judges as a runner-up. “We had a great deal of diverse talent represented in the Congressional Art Competition this year, and it’s always exciting to see which piece is the people’s favorite. I’d like to congratulate Katelyn and Jackson their success and encourage them to continue pursuing their talents,” Ratcliffe said. Garst said she is grateful for all of the support she’s had from her art teacher, Mrs. Seay, and her family in pursuing art. “I would have never found my passion for art if it weren't for my mom and those who supported me from day one. They have helped me to find not only who I am, but where I belong.” ###
05.13.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) released the following statement in response to the administration’s directive Friday requiring public schools to allow transgender students to use bathrooms of their chosen gender: “The federal government has no role in regulating school bathroom use, and the President’s recently announced proclamation is nothing more than a blatant political stunt. Threatening to withhold funding from schools for non-compliance represents a new low for the Obama administration in its pattern of disregard for the Constitution. “The laws as they pertain to this issue are crystal clear – gender identity is not included in the definition of sex discrimination as it relates to titles VII and IX of the Civil Rights Act. If the president disagrees with the law then he can ask Congress to change it, but he cannot do so unilaterally through executive action. I’m working with a coalition of dedicated conservatives to ensure that this attempt to circumvent the Constitution and the will of the constituents I represent will not stand.” ###
05.12.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) introduced the Iran Cyber Sanctions Act of 2016 today to require the administration to impose sanctions on hackers linked to the Iranian Government. The measure pushes the administration to take action on an April 2015 executive order that authorized the Treasury Department to sanction individuals and entities who engage in malicious cyber activities against the United States. “The danger posed by Iran’s increasingly sophisticated cyber capabilities has grown significantly over the past few years, and we must take these threats seriously,” Ratcliffe said. “However, just talking about the need to fight back against malicious cyber actors isn’t enough – the administration must follow through with forceful action that shows we mean business when it comes to defending our critical infrastructure and protecting Americans’ personal information.” In March the Department of Justice announced the indictment of seven hackers connected to the Iranian government. The attacks, which were directed at American banks and a New York dam, represented the first time the U.S. charged state-sponsored individuals for seeking to disrupt the networks of key industries. “The attacks by the Iran-linked hackers confirmed concerns previously voiced by top experts regarding the country’s malicious intent. Iran’s actions as a cyber aggressor prove the need to take swift action before its cyber capabilities become even more sophisticated,” Ratcliffe said. “Just last week, I met personally with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu who expressed deep concerns that Iran may use funds from the nuclear agreement to bolster its cyber capabilities. This reinforced the necessity of using sanctions as a tool in deterring such destructive behavior that so greatly threatens our national security.” Ratcliffe voted numerous times against the Iran nuclear agreement when it was brought before Congress last year, in part, due to the potential that increased revenue from the agreement might be used to enhance Iran’s cyber capabilities. Ratcliffe’s efforts to combat Iran’s cyber aggression are bicameral, as Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) introduced a nearly identical Senate version of the Iran Cyber Sanctions Act of 2016 (S. 2756) just last month. ###
05.10.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) led a Congressional delegation to Israel last week to discuss homeland security and cybersecurity issues with top officials, including Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Israeli Minister of Defense Moshe Ya’alon. He was joined by Rep. Jim Langevin (D-R.I.), who sits with him on the House Homeland Security Committee. “My meetings last week confirmed the importance of maintaining America’s unwavering support for Israel as our strongest ally in the Middle East. Israel, like the United States, knows far too well the threats posed by radial Islamist extremism, and it’s critical that we remain unified in our collective fight against terrorism,” Ratcliffe said. The Iran nuclear deal was a top issue discussed throughout the trip, and Ratcliffe said he was reassured by Israeli officials’ steadfast opposition to the agreement. “It was certainly a privilege to speak face-to-face with Prime Minister Netanyahu. He places national security ahead of politics and decisive action above political correctness. Prime Minister Netanyahu’s remarks also reinforced a concern I've raised in Congress that funds from sanctions relief in the nuclear deal could be used to bolster Iran's capabilities to launch increasingly sophisticated cyberattacks.” Over the past five years, the cyber threat posed by Iran has grown significantly, and a recent cybersecurity hearing chaired by Ratcliffe identified the country as cyber actor of particularly malicious intent. As the chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Ratcliffe also led numerous cyber-specific meetings with Israeli government representatives and industry leaders. Those in attendance included: Iddo Moed, head of Cyber at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; Dr. Eviatar Matania, head of Israel’s National Cyber Bureau; Isaac Ben-Israel, head of the Israel Space Agency and security and diplomacy educator at Tel Aviv University; Citi’s Technology Innovation Lab; and Microsoft Israel. “My talks with top Israeli cyber leaders helped shed light on the growing cyber threats– not just in Israel and the United States – but across the globe,” Ratcliffe said. “We had productive discussions on best practices and strategic collaboration opportunities between our countries to combat cyber-attacks. Cybersecurity is national security, and I’m committed to continuing to be a leading voice in Congress on these important issues.” ###
04.29.2016	DALLAS – The office of Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) hosted a roundtable on Thursday for congressional staffers across North Texas focused on improving constituent services for veterans. Representatives from 10 congressional offices in North Texas (both Republican and Democrat) attended, as did representatives from the offices of both U.S. Senators. Ratcliffe said he decided to host the roundtable to foster networking and collaboration among caseworkers and to help improve the quality of services offered to North Texas veterans by congressional staff members. “With more than 63,000 veterans in Texas’ Fourth District, ensuring their needs are met is a top priority in my own district; and with more than 1.6 million veterans throughout the state of Texas, there’s no doubt that veterans caseworkers all face similar challenges when it comes to this important, bipartisan issue,” Ratcliffe said. The roundtable offered a rare opportunity for congressional veterans caseworkers throughout the region to come together and discuss best practices; to share insights on the latest trends; and to offer each other advice on the most effective resources, tools and processes for assisting veterans. “In today’s polarized political climate, it was certainly reassuring to have folks on both sides of the aisle join forces to advance methods for better serving those who’ve selflessly fought for our nation’s freedom. I’m hopeful that the knowledge gained during this event will have a positive impact on the quality of services available to our veterans from their representatives in Congress,” Ratcliffe said. In 2015 alone, Ratcliffe’s office recovered over $280,000 in veteran benefits that had been improperly lost or frozen. Going forward, this network of congressional staffers will act as a valuable force multiplier to best service the needs of the region’s veterans. The complete list of congressional offices represented at the event is as follows: Reps. John Ratcliffe, Sam Johnson, Jeb Hensarling, Kenny Marchant, Pete Sessions, Kay Granger, Michael Burgess, Joe Barton, Eddie Bernice Johnson and Marc Veasey, as well as Sens. John Cornyn and Ted Cruz. ###
04.26.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) announced today the grand prize winner of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition: Rylie Power of Texas High School in Texarkana. The grand prize recipient was selected by a panel of judges who assessed submissions from high school students all across the 18 counties in Texas’ Fourth District. The Congressional Art Competition is an annual competition sponsored by the Congressional Institute, which gives students the opportunity to share their talent with visitors to the Capitol. A grand prize winner from each congressional district is displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building for one year. Power’s winning artwork, “Elephant,” was produced with a Sharpie marker using a technique called “pointillism” in which small, distinct dots of color are applied in patterns to form an image. “We had an exceptionally high level of participation in this year’s art competition, and the diverse array of talent and creativity displayed across the board was truly inspiring,” Ratcliffe said. “I’d like to thank all of the students who submitted entries for their hard work and to congratulate Rylie Power on being selected as our grand prize winner.” Power, along with the grand prize winners from each congressional district across the country, will be invited to attend a June 23 unveiling and award ceremony in Washington. In addition to the grand prize winner, Rep. Ratcliffe will be opening up a two-week voting period for a “People’s Choice” award on his Facebook page starting Friday. The “People’s Choice” winner along with the second and third place judge’s selections will be announced May 16. ###
04.01.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas), chairman of the House Homeland Security subcommittee on cybersecurity, will chair a Congressional hearing in Texas’ Fourth District, which will include several U.S. Representatives. The hearing, titled “Cyber Preparedness and Response at the Local Level,” will assess how state and local first responders prepare for, respond to and investigate cyber incidents. Additionally, the hearing will provide insight into training opportunities for state and local officials to bolster their cyber preparedness and response. It will take place at 11 a.m. on Thursday, April 7 in the J.E. and L.E. MaBee Foundation Banquet Hall, Wright Campus Center, Austin College, 1301 E. Brockett, Sherman, TX, 75090. Ratcliffe is chairing the hearing back home to help expose the prevalence of cyber incidents addressed every day by state and local first responders throughout the country. “Cybersecurity isn’t just a national security issue – it’s a community issue. Cyber incidents are making up a growing portion of the challenges our state and local first responders face on a daily basis, and they need to be prepared for these evolving threats,” Ratcliffe said. “It’s important to take a step away from Washington to adequately evaluate cyber preparedness through a local lens, and I’m holding my subcommittee hearing in Sherman to offer that opportunity to those in Congress who will be joining me in leading the charge on this important issue.” Rep. Michael McCaul (R-Texas), chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, expressed his support for Ratcliffe’s leadership on cybersecurity. “I applaud Rep. Ratcliffe’s leadership on legislation to strengthen our efforts in cyberspace. Cyberattacks against the United States occur every minute of every hour of every day. We must redouble our efforts to ensure we properly protect our networks. Rep. Ratcliffe’s hard work on this important issue has been invaluable,” McCaul said. Witnesses Include: Mr. Alphonse Davis Deputy Director/Chief Operations Officer Texas A&M Engineering Extension Service Mr. Sam Greif Chief Plano Fire-Rescue Department Plano, Texas Testifying on behalf of the International Association of Fire Chiefs Mr. Richard Wilson Lieutenant Dallas Police Department Dallas, Texas Mr. Don Waddle Detective (Ret.) Greenville Police Department Greenville, Texas Ratcliffe is chairman of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Security Technologies and formerly served as a federal law enforcement official. In 2015, his original legislation (H.R. 3490) passed the U.S. House of Representatives to help provide state and local law enforcement with the tools they need to fight cyber-crime. This year he’s continuing his focus on bringing cybersecurity measures up to speed with the sophistication of cyber threats at both the national and local level. ###
03.30.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) will speak at the opening ceremony of the Red River Army Depot (RRAD) Maneuver Systems Sustainment Center (MSSC) Tactical Vehicle Assembly facility on Wednesday, April 6 at 1 p.m. He will be joined by Rep. Bruce Westerman (R-Ark.), who will also give remarks. The Tactical Vehicle Assembly facility is the capstone of a multi-phase military construction project at the MSSC that began in FY 2008. At $44 million of the total $62 million MSSC investment project, the 232,000 square-foot facility is the centerpiece of the “LEAN” rebuild effort at RRAD, designed with centralized production processes to increase production capabilities. In addition to actual construction cost of the project, an additional $37 million was invested in the equipment necessary to operate the facility. A project of this magnitude has not been constructed at the RRAD since 1989. “As the largest employer in Bowie County, the Red River Army Depot is an invaluable asset to Texarkana and to the entire Fourth Congressional District of Texas. I’m grateful for the investment being made to ensure Depot employees are equipped with the up-to-date technology they need to remain competitive,” Ratcliffe said. Last year Ratcliffe added language to House-passed legislation to eliminate another round of BRAC and protect jobs at the RRAD. Prior to the opening ceremony, Ratcliffe and Westerman will attend a public reception hosted by the Texarkana USA Chamber of Commerce at 11:30 a.m. at Texarkana College, Truman Arnold Center, Great Room. ###
03.25.2016	The Justice Department announced today the indictment of hackers tied to the Iranian government for mounting cyberattacks on the U.S. financial sector and a New York dam. In response, Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement: “Last month, I chaired a cybersecurity subcommittee hearing to evaluate the serious national security threats posed by nation states and other malicious cyber actors. In this hearing, cybersecurity experts confirmed the risk of cyberattacks by Iran that are continuing to emerge as a top cybersecurity threat to the United States, and that what Iran lacks relative to other nation states in its capabilities, it makes up for in its intent. The cyberattacks conducted by those indicted confirm this concern, and I’m committed to fortifying our nation against such threats and ensuring that malicious nation state actors don’t have the upper hand.” Ratcliffe is chairman of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Security Technologies. He also serves on the Homeland Security Task Force on Combatting Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel. Before coming to Congress, he served as a U.S. Attorney and terrorism prosecutor where his efforts put individuals who were funneling money to terrorist organizations in federal prison. ###
03.23.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) introduced legislation today to help ensure America’s law enforcement officers are properly equipped to keep our communities safe. The Protecting Lives Using Surplus (PLUS) Equipment Act of 2016 aims to stop the president’s unilateral changes to a key program that provides defense equipment to state and local law enforcement. Following the Ferguson riots in January 2015, President Obama took executive action to restrict the “1033 Program,” which transfers certain defense surplus equipment to state and local law enforcement agencies – particularly those associated with counter-drug and counter-terrorism activities. This move effectively cuts access to critical equipment that our state and local law enforcement agencies depend upon. “The president’s decision to unilaterally cut access to potentially life-saving equipment was a knee-jerk reaction that put politics ahead of safety. The legislation I’ve introduced ensures that any changes to such programs would be data-driven, as we simply cannot allow for politics to compromise the protection of those who’ve dedicated their careers to keeping Americans safe.” Last week Sen. Pat Toomey (R-Pa.) introduced nearly identical legislation in the Senate, the Lifesaving Gear for Police Act (S. 2694), which also seeks to reverse the president’s unilateral decision to restrict access to lifesaving equipment through the 1033 program. Ratcliffe’s legislation is endorsed by the National Fraternal Order of Police, the National Sheriffs Association, the Major County Sheriffs’ Association and the National Association of Police Organizations. "The DoD is nearly finished with its recall efforts to remove equipment like certain armored vehicles. These vehicles are constructed so as to protect officers and citizens from gunfire, as we saw most recently at the tragic shootings in San Bernardino. Officers were able to safely approach the shooters’ escape vehicle, an SUV, by approaching them with multiple armored vehicles. No one at the scene of this tragic event, I assure you, was troubled by the appearance of the vehicle or the responding officers, even if the media would describe the response as 'too militarized.' This equipment, while politically incorrect, saved lives on that day." Chuck Canterbury, National President Fraternal Order of Police ###
03.22.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) chaired a subcommittee hearing today which examined the potential for cyber insurance to be used to drive companies of all sizes to improve their resiliency against cyber-attacks and develop a more effective risk management strategy. “Cyber risks are rapidly evolving, and cyber insurance has the potential to be an important tool for facilitating improvements in the private sector when it comes to advancing our cyber defense tools and capabilities,” Ratcliffe said. In the hearing, titled “The Role of Cyber Insurance in Risk Management,” stakeholders testified before the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Security Technologies. Witnesses in the hearing included: Senior Vice President of Network Security and Data Privacy, Marsh FINPRO, Matthew McCabe; National Association of Insurance Commissioners, Commissioner Adam W. Hamm; Chief Executive Officer of HITRUST Alliance, Daniel Nutkis; and Chief Strategy Officer of Ark Network Security Solutions, Tom Finan. The testimony emphasized the potential role that the cyber insurance industry can play in encouraging preventative cybersecurity measures in return for better coverage. “Cyber insurance has evolved into a product that serves as a key touchpoint for an organization to assess its cyber practices and coordinate its incident response plan to cyber incidents,” witness Matthew McCabe said. Ratcliffe agreed with witnesses about the valuable role cybersecurity insurance can play in helping to strengthen our nation’s cyber defenses, and he also recognized that this element represents only one component of the multifaceted approach necessary to being prepared to manage cyber risks. “Just as the process of obtaining home insurance can incentivize homeowners to invest in strong locks, smoke detectors and security alarms, the same could be true for companies seeking to obtain cyber insurance,” Ratcliffe said. “While there is no ‘silver bullet’ to improving our nation’s cybersecurity posture, today’s hearing certainly confirmed that cyber insurance can indeed be a valuable free-market tool in the ongoing effort to better defend ourselves against cyber risks.” Ratcliffe is chairman of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Security Technologies. Earlier this Congress, he facilitated the passage of a major cyber threat indicator sharing bill, which formed the basis for legislation signed into law at the end of 2015. This year he’s continuing his focus on bringing cybersecurity measures up to speed with the sophistication of cyber threats. ###
03.17.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) introduced legislation today to rein in the power of federal administrative agencies and to ensure that unelected bureaucrats don’t have the ability to effectively create laws. The Separation of Powers Restoration Act (SOPRA) of 2016 (H.R. 4768), seeks to reduce the accumulation of power attained by regulatory agencies by restoring the power of the courts to interpret the law, instead of deferring to the interpretation of federal administrative agencies. “The constituents I represent aren’t just frustrated with the enormous quantity of regulations being rolled out by unelected federal bureaucrats – they’re fed up with the lack of accountability administrative agencies have when they make all these rules out of thin air,” Ratcliffe said. “For too long, federal regulators have been allowed to run free and loose in their interpretation of the laws that Congress writes, resulting in a dangerous and unconstitutional culmination of power. The government works for the people – not the other way around – and I’m proud to help lead this effort to ensure the separation of powers is respected as our Founding Fathers intended.” Ratcliffe’s bill overturns a 1984 Supreme Court decision which ruled that courts should, in many cases, defer to administrative agencies’ interpretations of “ambiguous” statutes written by Congress. H.R. 4768 would amend the Administrative Procedure Act to require courts to conduct a “de novo” – or new – review of all relevant questions of law, rather than leaving such interpretation up to federal bureaucrats. “We’ve already seen unelected bureaucrats try to tell people what kind of light bulbs they can buy, attempt to regulate puddles in people’s backyards and fail immensely at taking over Americans’ healthcare. We must ensure the integrity of our three co-equal branches of government, and this legislation will stop administrative agencies from taking powers the Constitution does not give them,” Ratcliffe said. H.R. 4768 was introduced with the support of House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Regulatory Reform Subcommittee Chairman Tom Marino (R-Pa.) and 43 additional original co-sponsors in the House of Representatives. The Senate version of the bill was introduced by Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and Senator Mike Lee (R-Utah), with 8 additional co-sponsors. ###
03.14.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) is hiring a Wounded Warrior Fellow to serve as a Veterans’ Advocate and Outreach Coordinator in his Texarkana office. The Fellow will work in coordination with Rep. Ratcliffe’s full-time veterans caseworker. Last year alone, Rep. Ratcliffe’s staff helped recover $280,000 in frozen VA benefits for the constituents of Texas’ Fourth District. Almost immediately after Rep. Ratcliffe began his work in Congress, his office applied to participate in the Wounded Warrior Fellowship Program to enhance the quality of service provided for the 63,000 veterans in his district. Primary responsibilities of the position will include: processing veteran and military casework requests and assisting veterans and service members navigate federal government agencies. The duration of this appointment will last for up to two years. All applications are due by Thursday, March 31. The Congressional Wounded Warrior Fellowship program is limited to veterans who have served on active duty since September 11, 2001, with less than 20 years of service and a minimum 30 percent disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). To apply, please submit a resume, a copy of the last DD214 issued and a letter from the VA indicating a 30 percent or greater rating (not necessary if medically retired) to housewoundedwarriors@mail.house.gov. Please do not send resumes directly to the office of Rep. Ratcliffe. Interested veterans should visit https://cao.house.gov/job-title-constituent-services-liaison for more information and specific details on how to apply. The Wounded Warrior Program was established to create fellowships that will provide employment opportunities for wounded or disabled veterans within the House of Representatives. Those selected for the program will be employed by the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer but will be given the opportunity to work in Member, committee and leadership offices and, if a fit is found, transition into full-time employment. However, full time employment is not guaranteed at the conclusion of the two year fellowship. ###
03.01.2016	WASHINGTON — Texas Congressmen John Ratcliffe and Will Hurd, released the following statement regarding the Obama administration’s announcement that it plans to seek to revisit the 2013 Wassenaar Arrangement to remove fundamental cybersecurity technologies from a list of export controls: “We would like to commend the Administration’s decision to submit a proposal to the Wassenaar Arrangement to renegotiate the 2013 export control on cybersecurity technologies. We appreciate the Departments of State, Commerce and Homeland Security for actively engaging with Congress on this important issue that affects the cybersecurity posture of the United States. It is our hope that the United States' delegation to the Wassenaar Arrangement will successfully obtain a consensus on its proposal, which should address a substantial share of the bipartisan concerns expressed at our January hearing. We will continue to monitor this as it progresses through the year. We want to express our gratitude to the U.S. tech industry for its responsiveness and dedication throughout this process.” Ratcliffe and Hurd have been two of the strongest advocates for a renegotiation, chairing a joint hearing on the topic and authoring a joint op-ed. Both members have strongly advocated for the administration to return to the drawing board. Ratcliffe represents the 4th Congressional District of Texas and is Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security’s Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Security Technologies Subcommittee. Hurd, Chairman of the IT Subcommittee for the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, represents the 23rd Congressional District of Texas. ###
02.25.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) today chaired a subcommittee hearing where top cybersecurity experts confirmed the serious national security threats posed by nation states and other malicious cyber actors. In the hearing, titled “Emerging Cyber Threats to the United States,” witnesses highlighted the latest cybersecurity threats from nation states, criminal organizations and terrorist groups before the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Security Technologies. “Cybersecurity is national security, and today’s hearing reaffirmed this important principle. We cannot allow cyber adversaries to be left undeterred from conducting attacks that could jeopardize sensitive matters of national security, compromise our nation’s critical infrastructure and undermine the personal privacy of Americans,” Ratcliffe said. According to Frank J. Cilluffo, Director of the George Washington University Center for Cyber & Homeland Security, “Nation states and their proxies continue to present the greatest – meaning most advanced and persistent – threat in the cyber domain.” Cilluffo went on to discuss the capabilities of other cyber threat actors such as foreign terrorist organizations. While he acknowledged that these groups currently lack the sophistication to perform highly disruptive cyber-attacks, the intent to do harm exists. “It is likely that ISIS, or their sympathizers, will increasingly turn to disruptive cyber-attacks,” Cilluffo said. “As a former federal terrorism prosecutor, protecting our homeland is always a top priority,” Ratcliffe said. “And in today’s world, defending against cyber threats plays an enormous role in keeping Americans safe. I will continue utilizing my role as a cybersecurity subcommittee chairman to ensure this important goal is met.” Click here for a video of Ratcliffe’s opening statement. Ratcliffe is chairman of the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Security Technologies. He also serves on the Homeland Security Task Force on Combatting Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel. Before coming to Congress, he served as a U.S. Attorney and terrorism prosecutor where his efforts put individuals who were funneling money to terrorist organizations in federal prison. ###
02.23.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement on the administration’s plan to close the Guantanamo Bay detention facility: “For seven years, President Obama has tried to convince Congress and the American people that the closure of Guantanamo Bay does not pose a threat to our homeland. His new push for this plan, yet again, fails to provide critical details as required by law and directly defies the prohibition against transferring terrorist detainees to American soil. I’ve voted for legislation signed into law by the president himself which prevents the closure of Guantanamo Bay. As a former terrorism prosecutor who put terrorist sympathizers in prison, I’ll remain steadfast in opposing any attempt to advance this plan which poses such a significant national security threat to our country.” ###
02.03.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) joined a select network of House and Senate conservatives today to launch the Article I Project (A1P) which takes an aggressive approach to reclaiming the powers of Congress as defined by the Constitution. The lawmakers involved in A1P will develop and advance a strategic legislative plan to reassert the constitutional balance of power in the federal government which has been disproportionately seized by the executive branch. A1P will tackle this goal using several primary tools, including the power of the purse and regulatory reform. “Every day I hear a growing concern from my constituents that Congress isn’t doing enough to rein in the overreach of the executive branch and to stop the constant stream of regulations that are making Americans’ lives more difficult,” Ratcliffe said. “According to the Constitution, Congress is the only branch that should be making laws, yet we’ve seen an erosion of the delicate balance of power set forth by our Founding Fathers. The Article I Project will be a solutions-oriented group that acts as a vehicle to restore the healthy, balanced and functioning government that our country needs.” As a former U.S. Attorney who sits on the House Judiciary Committee, Ratcliffe brings a commitment to defending the Constitution to the A1P team. His initial focus will center around two specific topics: 1) reforming Chevron Deference, a Supreme Court principle that causes courts to defer to federal agencies’ interpretations of laws passed by Congress, rather than looking to Congress’ original intent; and 2) preventing “Midnight Regulations,” which administrations are notorious for ramming through toward the end of their term. “Chevron Deference and Midnight Regulations are two serious contributors to the great imbalance of power we see today. As a strong defender of the Constitution, I’m making it my priority to address these critical issues through the Article I Project,” Ratcliffe said. The Article I Project is led by Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah), and includes Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), Reps. Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), Mia Love (R-Utah), Barry Loudermilk (R-Ga.), Mark Walker (R-N.C.), Cynthia Lummis (R-Wyo.), Gary Palmer (R-Ala.) and Dave Brat (R-Va.), in addition to Ratcliffe. ###
01.13.2016	In response to President Obama’s State of the Union address Tuesday night, Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement: “To no surprise, the president’s speech tried to gloss over seven years of failed policies that have made life more difficult for the 700,000 Texans I represent. His final State of the Union address did nothing but reinforce just how out of touch the president is with the American people. "From skyrocketing Obamacare premiums, to almost $19 trillion in national debt, and one foreign policy failure after the next, the need for real leadership in the Oval Office has never been more apparent. I’m committed to remaining steadfast in the fight to do whatever it takes to stop the president’s reckless agenda and offer bold, conservative ideas to reignite the promise of this great country." Following the president’s address, Ratcliffe sent a survey to thousands of constituents in Texas’ Fourth District asking them to grade the State of the Union based on the policies and agenda it contained. The results revealed that 73 percent of respondents gave the speech either a D or an F. ###
01.07.2016	The U.S. House of Representatives passed the All Economic Regulations are Transparent (ALERT) Act by a vote of 244-173 today. The bill, sponsored by Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas), blocks the administration from implementing federal regulations without first providing the public with detailed information for at least six months before they go into effect. Current law requires an update twice a year on federal regulations being developed by federal agencies. Yet under this administration, these updates have been late – if they have been issued at all. The ALERT Act prevents the federal government from circumventing this requirement, and improves the quality and frequency of information available to the public. “Constituents all across the Fourth District of Texas are frustrated with unaccountable, unelected bureaucrats who create regulations that have the force of law. Regulations that typically appear out of nowhere and bring with them huge price tags for the cost of compliance, often with little time to prepare. I’m glad the House passed my bill to prevent people from getting steamrolled in the process of trying to comply,” Ratcliffe said. “I’m a firm believer that economic prosperity comes from the ingenuity of the American people, not the overreach of the federal government, and I’m committed to reining in the constant stream of costly federal regulations that are being rolled out by the administration.” The ALERT Act was included in H.R. 712, the Sunshine for Regulations and Regulatory Decrees and Settlements Act of 2015, a legislative package which contained other key measures to push the government out of the American people’s way. ###
01.06.2016	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) voted Wednesday to send a bill that repeals Obamacare and defunds Planned Parenthood to President Obama’s desk for the first time. The Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act made a leap beyond previous attempts to repeal Obamacare and defund Planned Parenthood by utilizing a once-a-year opportunity through budget reconciliation to bypass a common procedural block in the Senate and be sent straight to the president. The measure also reduces the federal deficit by $516 billion, according to a Congressional Budget Office estimate. “Dismantling Obamacare has been one of my top priorities since my first day in Congress. This expensive, intrusive law is full of broken promises, and I’m proud to stand up against this failed Washington takeover of healthcare and send this legislation all the way to the Oval Office,” Ratcliffe said. “From the single parent whose premiums doubled, to the small businesses owner who can’t afford to hire new employees, there are countless examples from the constituents I represent about just how unaffordable this disastrous law has been.” Ratcliffe also praised the bill’s inclusion of language to limit federal funding for organizations like Planned Parenthood. “As a staunch pro-life advocate, I’ve always opposed any federal funding of organizations like Planned Parenthood that perform abortions,” Ratcliffe said. “To protect the rights of the unborn, I’m grateful that we’ve pushed legislation one step closer toward defunding Planned Parenthood once and for all.” ###
01.05.2016	In response to the president’s Monday announcement on his intent to roll out a series of gun-related executive actions, Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement: “The president’s planned actions undoubtedly seek to weaken Second Amendment rights by undermining the legislative powers the Constitution reserves to Congress. This is not the first time the president has tried to bypass Congress to force his radical agenda on the American people. The president claims that ‘the overwhelming majority of the American people, including gun owners,’ supports these actions, but I can assure him that the Texans I represent do not. They recognize that ultimately no one is safe if our Constitutional rights are eroded. I am proud to be an original cosponsor of the Separation of Powers Restoration and Second Amendment Protection Act, which would halt any unlawful action taken by the president to weaken our Second Amendment rights. “The president made his announcement with the Attorney General, the nation’s top law enforcement officer, seated by his side. Her presence did nothing to assure me that these actions will be lawful. In recent months, I’ve tried to get answers from the Attorney General on her office’s continued stonewalling of manufacturers seeking to produce ammunition for the sportsmen of this country. The Attorney General not only failed to provide answers, but she also was wholly unaware of the situation. To neglect her job duties while aiding the President’s circumvention of the Constitution is yet another example of how out-of-touch the administration is with the American people. “Last year I joined a coalition of lawmakers which successfully stopped the administration’s attempt to ban ‘green tip’ ammo, and I will continue to hold the administration’s feet to the fire when it comes to our Second Amendment rights. Attempts to limit access to ammunition and bog down the process of obtaining a firearm will not succeed. They will be met by lawmakers who are steadfast in our commitment to defend the right to bear arms.” ###
12.18.2015	In response to the FY 2016 government funding package voted on Friday by the U.S. House of Representatives, Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement: “I just voted against the FY 2016 omnibus funding deal. I simply could not support a measure which funded many of President Obama’s policies that I’ve spent the last year actively fighting against. Specifically, this funding package failed to prohibit the president’s executive amnesty policies, failed to establish new restrictions on refugees from Syria and Iraq and failed to defund Planned Parenthood – all the while, it increased government spending over the caps that I voted not to lift in the first place. "While there were some policy wins for conservatives included in the bill, now is the time for wholesale reform, not minor tweaks around the edges. I’ve said it before, and I’ll say it again. We cannot solve problems by passing more legislation that kicks the can even farther down the road. We need legislation that addresses the issues head on and puts an end to the reckless cycle of borrowing and spending.” ###
12.02.2015	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) voted Tuesday for two disapproval measures (S.J. Res. 23 and S.J. Res. 24) to halt regulations that would drive up energy costs for families across the country and eliminate American jobs. The measures, sent to the House from the Senate, were nearly identical to legislation introduced by Ratcliffe earlier this year (H.J. Res. 68 and H.J. Res. 67). Ratcliffe applauded this important step in the ongoing fight to combat the regulatory overreach of the Obama administration and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). “When the administration announced its ‘Clean Power Plan’ in August, it was clear that these regulations would have a devastating impact on hard-working families in Texas and throughout the country,” Ratcliffe said. “In fact, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas anticipates that these regulations would increase retail power prices in Texas by up to 16 percent – and when families’ budgets are already stretched thin, they simply cannot afford this hike. That’s why I introduced disapproval measures to stop these regulations, and I will continue to lead the charge against the administration’s regulatory zeal.” Ratcliffe serves on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, where he is in a strategic position to advance legislation to prevent regulatory overreach. Earlier this year, he introduced the ALERT Act (H.R. 1759) to protect businesses from getting steamrolled by regulations created out of thin air. This measure was approved by the full House Judiciary Committee and awaits a vote on the House floor. ###
11.30.2015	The U.S. House of Representatives passed the Strengthening State and Local Cyber Crime Fighting Act of 2015 (H.R. 3490) today to provide state and local law enforcement with the tools they need to fight back against cyber-crime and protect our communities. The bill, sponsored by Rep. Ratcliffe (R-Texas), now heads to the Senate. “It’s critical that we stand behind our law enforcement and give them the resources they need to keep us safe. In an increasingly connected society with rapidly evolving technologies, it is no surprise that ‘digital evidence’ plays a prominent role in addressing nearly every crime and security threat we face today,” Ratcliffe said. “As a former law enforcement official myself, I’ve seen firsthand the new challenges created by cyber-crime, and believe strongly that we have a duty to equip local officers, prosecutors, and judges with the tools and strategies they need to properly respond to these evolving threats.” H.R. 3490 authorizes the National Computer Forensics Institute (NCFI), widely recognized as the premier cyber-crime training center in the nation. The NCFI has trained more than 4,590 local officials from all 50 states and three U.S. Territories. Its graduates represent more than 1,500 agencies nationwide, including multiple agencies in Texas’ Fourth District. ###
11.19.2015	Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-TX) voted for the American SAFE Act today to stop ISIS from infiltrating our borders through the refugee resettlement program. It passed in the House with a veto-proof majority and now heads to the Senate. “The American SAFE Act is a much-needed piece of legislation to protect the American people and our homeland from ISIS,” Ratcliffe said. “The stakes are simply too high to let radical jihadists exploit a system which has undeniable vulnerabilities.” To the same end, at least 31 governors across the country, including Texas Gov. Greg Abbott, announced their refusal to participate in the Syrian refugee resettlement program. Ratcliffe supported this effort, co-sponsoring legislation to protect states’ rights to opt out of this program. “The recent string of ISIS-led terrorist attacks is a grave reminder of the dangers of violent Islamist extremism,” Ratcliffe said. “Although the President continues to ignore the seriousness of this threat, I stand by the decision of the governors who have fully acknowledged the pressing need to keep terrorists from entering our country.” Ratcliffe also stressed that the refugee resettlement crisis must not distract from the need to eliminate the real threat – ISIS itself. “Addressing Syrian refugee resettlement alone isn’t enough to end the global battle against ISIS. We must remain focused on the end goal of defeating ISIS once and for all by taking the firm actions necessary to eradicate this threat both at home and abroad.” Ratcliffe is a member of the House Homeland Security Committee and was selected as a member of the Homeland Security Task Force on Combatting Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel. Before coming to Congress, he served as a U.S. Attorney and terrorism prosecutor where his efforts put individuals who were funneling money to terrorist organizations in federal prison.
11.12.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. John Ratcliffe released the following statement in response to the news that the Senate can move forward with the House-passed reconciliation bill: "Obamacare has been an absolute train wreck any way you look at it. It has forced higher premiums on hard-working families, increased costs for small businesses, and reduced work hours for millions of Americans whose take home pay has been decimated under the Obama economy. One of the first votes I took as a Member of Congress was to repeal Obamacare in its entirety, and I promised I would continue to use every tool available to dismantle this disastrous law. In October, the House passed a reconciliation package with my support which would repeal Obamacare's most harmful provisions while also ending taxpayer funding for abortion providers.” “Unlike most pieces of legislation, a reconciliation package needs just 51 votes, not 60, to pass the Senate and head to the President’s desk. The House has done our part, and the ball now lies squarely in the Senate’s court. It is imperative that they move quickly to pass the most aggressive and expansive version of the bill possible.” “Too often, the President has been able to hide behind Harry Reid’s obstructionist techniques to avoid making tough decisions in front of the American people. This time, he won’t have that cover. The House has acted decisively to stand up for the American people, and it’s time for the Senate to do the same.”
11.06.2015	After a stunningly long decision process dragged out over almost his entire tenure, the President has rejected TransCanada’s Keystone XL pipeline application. In one of his first orders of business of the 114th Congress, U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe signed on as an original cosponsor to legislation to approve and build the Keystone XL Pipeline. The full U.S. House of Representatives passed the legislation with Ratcliffe’s support in January, followed quickly by the Senate. But the President vetoed this commonsense measure. “The Keystone XL pipeline would have created an estimated 42,000 American jobs, while growing our economy and supporting increased manufacturing and trade,” said Ratcliffe. “The President’s decision is a direct attack on the folks who need these jobs the most, and the pipeline is extremely important to states like Texas. To put this impact of this decision into perspective, the 42,000 jobs the Keystone XL would create are 12,000 more than the total unemployed population across the entire 4th Congressional District,” Ratcliffe added. On September 19, 2008, the Canadian energy and infrastructure company TransCanada filed an application with the U.S. Department of State to build the Keystone XL pipeline, an expansion of the existing Keystone pipeline. The landmark Keystone XL pipeline expansion could carry up to 830,000 barrels of oil per day 875 miles from Alberta, Canada to Steele City, Nebraska. From there, the oil would go to refineries in the Midwest and Texas. Additionally, the existing pipeline contains 6 Pump Stations in Texas, one of which is in Delta County. Just this week, TransCanada asked for the decision to be delayed as it sought a resolution with the state of Nebraska regarding the route of the pipeline. “As a then-Senator in 2008, Obama said that building a pipeline like this would deliver clean natural gas and create good-paying jobs in the process,” said Ratcliffe. “But after becoming President, he moved to delay the Keystone XL because of political concessions to his environmentalist base. Now, he has moved to completely block it due to his radical climate agenda. It is unacceptable that he continues to play political games with the livelihoods of the American people,” Ratcliffe added. ###
11.06.2015	U.S. Congressman John Ratcliffe (TX-4), U.S. Congressman Pete Sessions (TX-32) and U.S. Congressman Sam Johnson (TX-3), released the following statement regarding their joint letter on behalf of the North Texas Municipal Water District to the United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) urging them to issue a necessary permit to build the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir: The North Texas Municipal Water District (NTMWD) currently serves 1.6 million people in one of the fastest growing areas in Texas. The NTMWD has projected that water demands will drastically increase from 420,000 acre-feet per year in 2020 to 626,400 acre-feet per year by 2060. Due to the growing demands, it is imperative that the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir permits be approved no later than June 1, 2016 to ensure construction is completed by 2020. Water resources, including the construction of this reservoir, are the key to sustaining North Texas’ burgeoning economic and population growth. “I’m grateful to join with Congressman Pete Sessions and Congressman Sam Johnson to demand answers on behalf of our constituents in Northeast Texas. Many folks in Texas’ Fourth Congressional District have reached out to my office with concern about the permitting timeline for the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir,” said Ratcliffe. “It’s time that the EPA and USACE take this process seriously and do everything within their power to move the process along, so the people of Northeast Texas can benefit from the region’s continued economic growth.” “As our region continues to expand, it is imperative that we take effective measures to ensure North Texas families have access to this critical water supply,” Sessions said. “I join my colleagues in urging the EPA and USACE to recognize the urgency of this situation, remove the bureaucratic hurdles, quickly conclude the permitting process, and issue the necessary permits so we can begin construction on this vital Reservoir.” “Texans are no strangers to drought, which is why water is one of the most important issues for folks in North Texas – particularly as our community continues to grow,” said Johnson. “That’s why, a few years ago, I worked to help the NTMWD resume pumping after it had been shut down due to a Zebra Mussel infestation. But I’ve also been working hard with my colleagues Congressman Sessions and Ratcliffe to get new reservoirs for our area approved. We’ve been working closely with the Army Corps of Engineers, and we also helped pass the RAPID Act (H.R. 348) to help expedite the approval of new water projects like the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir. It’s high time this necessary reservoir’s permit was granted, and North Texans can rest assured we’ll continue to fight to see that their water needs are met.” To read the full letter, click here. ###
10.28.2015	In response to the announced sweeping budget agreement on Monday evening, U.S. Representative John Ratcliffe (R-TX) released the following statement: “I came to congress to put a stop to the endless cycle of borrowing, taxing, and spending and to restore fiscal sanity once and for all. We don't tackle enormous government waste by kicking the can down the road and simply extending the status quo. That would hand victory to the fiscally irresponsible policies of the past which have led to a national debt approaching $19 trillion. “The recently announced budget agreement was crafted with little to no input from members of congress. Instead of taking the opportunity to bring about wholesale reform to a broken system, we are getting more of the same – more backroom deals, more debt for future generations, and more government spending. “Enough is enough. Time is running out to get our fiscal house in order, and symbolic tweaks around the edges of the federal budget will not meaningfully address the problem. “I am opposing this deal because my constituents sent me to Washington to tackle tough problems head on, not shift them to future generations. Our children and grandchildren deserve to inherit an opportunity-filled America, and like you, I believe we have a moral obligation to not saddle them with mountains of debt.”
10.22.2015	In response to President Obama’s veto of a defense bill with deep bipartisan support, Rep. Ratcliffe expressed his disappointment in the president’s desire to continue to play political games with our national security. The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) is necessary to fund a strong national defense for the United States, and Rep. Ratcliffe supported it when it passed the House of Representatives. The NDAA contains several measures that would enhance the Retirement System for service members, improve the pay and benefits for our troops and their families, initiate urgently-needed reforms to the Department of Defense’s broke acquisition system, prohibit the president from transferring detainees from Guantanamo Bay to the U.S., and empower commanders to continue the fight against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS). “President Obama is hijacking our military funding in an attempt to get more funding for the IRS and EPA,” said Ratcliffe. “He gave Iran billions in sanction relief, but refuses to approve funding for our troops. I’ve frequently criticized the president for politicizing matters of national security, and today’s veto further reinforces how out-of-touch his priorities are with those of the American people.” “I’m proud to stand with our military and men and women in uniform, and I know my constituents feel the same way. It’s unfortunate this posture has become a partisan issue. It’s time for the president to stop this nonsense and pass this bill. Our national security depends on it.” Another important measure included in the NDAA would empower commanders to permit members of the Armed Forces to carry appropriate firearms, including personal firearms, at DOD installations, reserve centers and recruiting centers. “After the recent tragic events this year in Chattanooga, this measure is greatly needed to ensure our men and women in uniform are protected from lone-wolf and ISIS inspired attacks,” Ratcliffe added. House Republicans have set Nov. 5 as the date to vote on a veto override.
10.13.2015	U.S. Rep John Ratcliffe nominated Rockwall resident Joanne Vuckovic as an Angels in Adoption honoree for the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI). At an awards ceremony on October 6 and gala on October 7 in Washington, Joanne Vuckovic was recognized for her dedication to advancing adoption and foster care advocacy. Joanne is the Executive Director of Rockwall’s Your Pregnancy Center, an organization founded in 2000 to provide resources to women facing crisis pregnancies. “The Angels in Adoption Program is a unique annual opportunity in the nation’s Capital to shine a well-deserved spotlight on the power of adoption and the unspoken heroes who have made the dream of a family a reality for children. Since the program’s inception, over 2,200 Angels have come to Washington to share their firsthand adoption experiences with Members of Congress, highlighting its joys, as well as the barriers encountered in the process,” said Becky Weichhand, Executive Director at CCAI. “Members of Congress are then able to use their new experiential understanding of these issues to create policy improvements that better support these children and the families that open their hearts and homes to them.” “Facilities like Rockwall’s Your Pregnancy Center provide critical resources to our communities while promoting a culture of life,” Rep. Ratcliffe said. “This is why I am so grateful for Joanne and the work that she and her colleagues do. Joanne’s award is well-deserved, and I was privileged to be part of honoring her achievement.” The Angels in Adoption Program is CCAI’s signature public awareness campaign and provides an opportunity for all members of the U.S. Congress to honor the good work of their constituents who have enriched the lives of foster children and orphans in the United States and abroad. This year, more than 150 “Angels” are being honored through the Angels in Adoption program.
10.08.2015	U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-TX) issued the following statement regarding Leader Kevin McCarthy’s (R-CA) announcement that he is exiting the race for Speaker of the House of Representatives: “Earlier today, Kevin McCarthy surprised many people when he stepped back and withdrew his candidacy for Speaker of the House. He said our conference needs a fresh face, and I wholeheartedly agree. “At this critical juncture, we need bold, conservative leadership to deliver the results the American people need and deserve. Throughout the last month, I’ve publicly advocated for Congressman Trey Gowdy as the best person to take on this leadership mantle. I was planning on voting for Trey today, and I will continue to encourage him over the coming days and weeks. “This turn of events presents an incredible opportunity. The American people are deeply dissatisfied with the status quo, and this is a chance to unite behind a Speaker that will forcefully fight back against the President’s radical agenda. While the Democrats are still the party of Pelosi, Reid, and Clinton, we are the party with the bold ideas necessary to restore the promise of this great country.”
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON DC –On Wednesday, two congressional committees approved legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-TX) to combat cybercrime. H.R. 3940 or the Strengthening State and Local Cyber Crime Fighting Act, authorizes the National Computer Forensics Institute (NCFI) under the United States Secret Service in order to train state and local law enforcement officers, prosecutors, and judges on how to investigate cyber and electronic crimes, conduct computer and mobile device forensic examinations, and respond to network intrusion investigations. “The threats facing state and local law enforcement are ever changing. Cyber criminals use technology to commit crimes of almost any type. Our men and women in law enforcement are working in an extremely challenging environment, and it is imperative that we equip them to address these challenges in an effort to protect the most vulnerable from being exploited,” said Ratcliffe. Since its creation, the NCFI has trained and equipped more than 4,590 officials from all 50 states. These NCFI graduates represent more than 1,500 agencies nationwide who are now empowered to hit back on cybercrime, including organizations in Collin County, Hunt Count and the Greenville Police Department. By authorizing the NCFI in federal law, this bill ensures proper oversight and accountability to enable NCFI to remain the nation’s premier cybercrime training center. Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee Bob Goodlatte applauded Rep. Ratcliffe’s bill, “In order to protect Americans from cyber criminals, the Strengthening State and Local Cyber Crime Fighting Act enables technology experts at the Secret Service to train local law enforcement, prosecutors, and judges on how to combat cyber-crime in their own cities and states. I am pleased the House Judiciary Committee overwhelmingly approved this bill today and urge the House to take it up immediately.” “H.R. 3490, the Strengthening State and Local Cyber Crime Fighting Act of 2015, is a much-needed bill that will help law enforcement fight back against increasingly sophisticated cybercrimes. I’m grateful that it was passed and am hopeful for its consideration on the floor of the U.S. House,” Ratcliffe added.
09.29.2015	On Tuesday, Rep. John Ratcliffe (TX-04) led 23 members of Congress in introducing legislation (H.J. Res. 68 and H.J. Res. 67) to block Environmental Protection Agency regulations that would drive up energy costs for American families. In August, the administration announced this latest move in its war on jobs and affordable, reliable energy. To push its radical environmental agenda, the administration is heaping expensive regulations on new and existing power plants, and going even further by setting forth requirements that will impact the choices that individual families make about personal electricity use. “I said it when the administration announced its plan, and I’ll say it again: these rules will have a devastating impact on energy prices and the security of our power grid across the country — and Texans will feel the pain sharper than most, since our great state will be one of the hardest hit by these indiscriminate rules. In fact, the administration has targeted Texas with nonsensical requirements that are 20 percent stricter than their target national average,” said Ratcliffe. “Families are flocking to Texas because of our conservative, pro-growth policies. In fact, Texas has created more jobs since 2008 than all other states combined. It’s beyond me why President Obama would want to obstruct our success with regulations created out of thin air by unelected bureaucrats based on a radical political agenda. That is why I’m introducing disapproval resolutions that, if enacted, would prevent these rules from going into effect and bar the administration from ever submitting a similar rule in the future,” Ratcliffe added. “I urge leaders in the House and Senate to quickly take up these measures for consideration. The job security and energy security of hard-working Americans depends on our swift action to combat these harmful regulations.” ###
09.25.2015	Today, U.S. Representative John Ratcliffe (R-TX) released the following statement following the announcement that John Boehner will resign as Speaker of the House and leave Congress at the end of October: “I have respect for anyone who dedicates his or her life to public service, and thank the Speaker for his decades of work on behalf of the State of Ohio and the American people. Looking forward, I see this as an opportunity for Republicans to unite the party in order to advance a more aggressive conservative agenda. “I first ran for Congress because I believed we needed bold, conservative leadership to tackle the challenges our country faces. Since taking office, I’ve been a frequent critic of the tactics used by House Leadership and their lack of conservative resolve. This frustration, which is shared by a majority of my constituents, is one of the reasons why I’ve so frequently voted against leadership. “Going forward, it’s important for House Republicans to remember that we are the governing majority of America explicitly tasked by our constituents to defend the Constitution, secure our freedoms and liberties, protect our homeland, reduce the overreach of the federal government, and fight back against a reckless President. I will support leaders who are serious about this mission, who will not waver in their conservative principles. “America has always been a nation which thrives on the prospect of a better tomorrow. When we are presented with challenges, we always rise to the occasion. I feel that this change in leadership will provide just that – an opportunity going forward for Republicans to start winning again.” ###
09.18.2015	In an effort to stand up for the sanctity of life, U.S. Rep. Ratcliffe took a strong stance, supporting several measures that protect every American’s right to life by voting to pass H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act and H.R. 3504, the Born-Alive Survivors Protection Act. “The Declaration of Independence, the foundational document of this great nation, boldly proclaims that every person is endowed by their Creator with the inalienable rights to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness,” said Ratcliffe. “Both of these bills demonstrate that Conservatives are willing to stand up and prove to the American people that every life is a gift worth defending,” Ratcliffe added. H.R. 3134 would place an immediate moratorium on all federal funding to Planned Parenthood and its affiliates for one year, while Congress conducts a full and complete investigation into the organization’s activities. Horrific videos have recently surfaced that show Planned Parenthood selling children’s organs, piece by piece, to fetal tissue brokers. H.R. 3504 strengthens penalties for medical personnel who violate current law that protects children born alive during an abortion. Earlier this week, Rep. Ratcliffe notified U.S House Leadership that he, in good conscience, could not vote to support any funding measure that would give taxpayer money to Planned Parenthood. “The notion that a taxpayer funded organization engages in practices to deny the unborn the right to life in barbaric fashion is simply unacceptable. I cannot vote to send taxpayer dollars to Planned Parenthood, especially when we have so many other organizations across Texas that provide women’s health care,” said Ratcliffe. In fact, There are 20 federally-funded comprehensive care clinics for every one Planned Parenthood. “I’m grateful that my colleagues and I were able to stand strong to protect the right to life, God’s most precious gift. I participated in more than 80 events this past August across Northeast Texas, and time and time again, folks told me that protecting the rights of the unborn is a fight where we must not back down. I couldn’t agree more, and I will always stand up for those who can’t stand for themselves,” Ratcliffe added. ###
09.11.2015	In a stern rebuke to reckless foreign policy, U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe (TX-04) voted on several pieces of legislation to show formal opposition to the administration’s nuclear deal with Iran. “Like the overwhelming majority of the constituents that I am privileged to represent, I’m sick and tired of an administration which continually politicizes matters of national security,” said Ratcliffe. “The fact is the concessions made by the Obama Administration are nothing short of unconscionable. Iran is the world’s largest state sponsor of terror, yet this deal inexplicably rewards their deceptive behavior by giving them as much as $150 billion as a signing bonus,” Ratcliffe added. Earlier today, the U.S. House of Representative considered H.R. 3461, a bill to approve the deal. Rep. Ratcliffe strongly opposed this measure, which failed convincingly by a 162-269 vote. In a separate vote, the House passed, and Rep. Ratcliffe supported, H.R. 3460, legislation that would suspend until January 2017, when a new President comes to office, the president’s authority to remove sanctions on Iran. Additionally, H. Res 411 also passed with Rep. Ratcliffe’s support, a resolution finding that the president has not complied with the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015 due to the administration’s failure to disclose to Congress several side deals between Iran and other international parties. With these three votes, Rep. Ratcliffe sent a strong message about the seriousness of his opposition to the deal, his commitment to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon, and unwavering support for Israel. “The President and his liberal allies would like us to believe that this deal they have negotiated with Iran is the only alternative to war, but war is much more likely under a deal that puts a nuclear weapon in the hands of madmen,” said Ratcliffe. “It is a historic mistake and I will continue to stand resolute in rejecting this deal. The security of America, our allies, and the free world depends on it.” ###
09.10.2015	U.S. Rep. Ratcliffe has served in the Fourth District of Texas in the U.S. House of Representatives since Jan. 6 of 2015. Immediately following his swearing in, he opened three offices in Sherman, Rockwall and Texarkana. In an expanded effort to provide the most comprehensive constituent services possible to the 18 counties he represents, Rep. Ratcliffe recently announced the introduction of mobile office hours in Paris. On September 15th, Rep. Ratcliffe and staff will be in attendance at the Paris City Hall for the grand opening of these mobile office hours from noon to 1 p.m. Additionally, the Congressman announced he is conducting another Telephone Town-hall to take place September 17th at 7 p.m. featuring Congressman Trey Gowdy, Chairman of the Select Committee on Benghazi. “It has always been a top priority of my staff and me to have top notch constituent services offered to the people of the 4th District. I also have a duty to be fiscally responsible and a good steward of taxpayer dollars. The opening of mobile office hours will further fulfill this commitment and provide the people of Lamar, Delta and Red River counties easier access to my constituent services without increasing costs,” said Ratcliffe. “I’m pleased to announce that I will also be holding a telephone town hall, with my friend Congressman Trey Gowdy and I invite all constituents to participate,” Ratcliffe added. Constituent services encompass a wide variety of activities but most commonly consist of helping constituents bust through bureaucratic red-tape regarding federal agencies such as the VA or Social Security Administration. To date, U.S. Rep. Ratcliffe’s staff has recovered over $250,000 in veterans benefits inappropriately frozen or lost and successfully resolved hundreds of cases on behalf of constituents. A constituent caseworker will be at the Paris City Hall on the 1st and 3rd Tuesdays of each month from 10am to 4pm beginning on September 15th. Full office hours, times and locations can be found at U.S. Rep. Ratcliffe’s website at https://ratcliffe.house.gov/mobile-office. For any additional assistance regarding mobile office hours, constituents can call the Rockwall District Office at 972-771-0100. Constituents can register for the upcoming telephone town-hall at https://ratcliffe.house.gov/telephone-town-hall-sign. ###
08.03.2015	ROCKWALL, TX - Today, the Environmental Protection Agency announced the final rules to regulate CO2 emissions at new and existing power plants in order to push the president’s radical climate change agenda. These regulations set a dangerous precedent and could have a devastating impact on electricity prices and grid reliability across the nation. U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-TX) announced plans to introduce a package of Disapproval Resolutions in response that would prevent the EPA from implementing these onerous rules. “The Obama administration, once again, is circumventing the rule of law to force its ideological views on the American people. This assault on affordable, reliable energy like that produced at the Panda Power Plant in Grayson County and the Monticello Plant in Titus County will hit electricity prices and jobs across Northeast Texas,” said Ratcliffe. “We are in the middle of one of the slowest economic recoveries this country has ever seen and instead of prioritizing the success of the American people, the president feels the need to further restrict economic growth and job creation for the sake of appeasing a small group of his liberal base,” Ratcliffe added. The rule calls for a drastic 32 percent nationwide cut in CO2 emissions by 2030, compared to 2005 levels. The package of Disapproval Resolutions to be introduced by Rep. Ratcliffe allows Congress to cancel some federal regulations by an expedited legislative process. “This president and his administration have a stubborn disregard for what works best for the American people, instead resorting to a ‘Washington-knows-best’ attitude. I will continue to fight against the executive overreach and burdensome regulatory policies coming from the White House,” Ratcliffe added. ###
07.27.2015	ROCKWALL, TX – U.S. Rep John Ratcliffe has added a full time veterans service worker to his staff to help serve the 63,000 veterans that he represents across the 4th Congressional District of Texas. Michelle Zook, an Air Force veteran, will manage all veteran-related casework and outreach across the district. She joins Ratcliffe’s existing constituent services staff which includes dedicated caseworkers to help constituents break through the endless red tape of the federal bureaucracy. Since Ratcliffe was sworn in on January 6th, approximately one in every two of the constituent cases have involved the Department of Veterans Affairs. To date, Ratcliffe’s staff has helped recover over $182,000 in lost benefits for veterans. “Our men and women in uniform have given so much and asked for so little in return. We owe it to them to deliver the benefits and services they’ve earned,” said Ratcliffe. “This is why I’m grateful to announce that I’ve hired a full time veterans services worker, Michelle Zook.” “I am thrilled to be coming on board with Congressman Ratcliffe’s office as the Constituent Liaison for Veterans Services,” said Michelle. “Having served in the military and as a veteran myself, ensuring our nation’s veterans receive the support and care our nation has promised them is something I am very passionate about, and I look forward to assisting the veterans of the 4th Congressional District of Texas, however I am able to do so. When I left the Air Force, I told my fellow airmen that I would keep fighting for them. I see this as an opportunity to do just that.” Michelle is a native Texan who recently returned to the state with her husband after their service in the United States Air Force. Michelle served onboard the E-3 Sentry (AWACS) aircraft as an air weapons officer based in Tinker AFB, OK and as Section Commander and Executive Officer for the 960th AACS. She currently lives in Rockwall County with her husband and two young children. Michelle has a proven dedication and strong passion for helping veterans, and will provide exceptional service to the constituents of the 4th Congressional District of Texas. ###
07.21.2015	Contact: Shayne L. Martin, 202-225-6673 Washington DC - On the fourth anniversary of the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) and Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas-04) have introduced legislation to eliminate it. The CFPB, like the Dodd-Frank legislation which created it, is just another example of the cronyism that infects our nation's capital. The CFPB was sold as an entity to help consumers by regulating and reining in larger financial institutions. Ironically, the Bureau has had the opposite effect. Now five years after Dodd-Frank's passage, big banks have only gotten bigger and the number of smaller banks and options for consumers have only decreased. “Don’t let the name fool you, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau does little to protect consumers. The agency continues to grow in power and magnitude without any accountability to Congress and the people. The only way to stop this runaway agency is by eliminating it altogether,” Sen. Cruz stated. “The legislation that Rep. Ratcliffe and I are introducing today gives Congress the opportunity to free consumers and small businesses from the CFPB’s regulatory blockades and financial activism, which stunt economic growth. While there’s much more to do to scale back the harmful regulatory impositions of Dodd-Frank, this legislation takes a critical step in the right direction. So today let’s celebrate the CFPB’s fourth and final anniversary,” Sen. Cruz concluded. “The CFPB’s regulatory zeal has stripped American consumers and businesses of their freedom of choice and has limited their access to capital - all in the name of a 'we know best' attitude from Washington. It seems like every time I go home to Texas and spend time with people across our district, I hear stories about community banks having to choose between closing their doors or consolidating into larger institutions to handle the increase in compliance costs,” said Rep. Ratcliffe. “I hear from businesses forced to spend more time on unnecessary regulatory compliance paperwork than helping serve their customers, and financial institutions that have stopped providing certain basic financial services out of fear of retaliation from the CFPB. I’m grateful to be able to introduce this bill with 46 of my House colleagues in conjunction with Senator Cruz. The CFPB represents exactly what President Reagan warned of – a government smothering opportunity rather than fostering it. We must eliminate the CFPB,” Rep. Ratcliffe added. The unelected bureaucrats at the CFPB’s helm are wholly unaccountable to the American people. Unlike most federal agencies, Congress does not oversee the CFPB through the annual appropriations process. The agency receives more than $600 million annually from the budget of the Federal Reserve System – monies that Congress does not control. This unique setup makes the CFPB one of the least accountable regulatory agencies in the federal government; a situation that invites regulatory excess and abuse. ###
07.16.2015	In a recent video, new documentation surfaced that Planned Parenthood abortion clinics not only profit from the intentional destruction of unborn children, but also sell children’s organs, piece by piece, to fetal tissue brokers. U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) has spoken out about this horrific act. “I am sickened by these revelations. The right to life is a God-given, inalienable right that should never be compromised,” said Ratcliffe. “When organizations trample on this right through gruesome acts, we all suffer. I have continually supported measures to defend the unborn and protect the sanctity of life, and will continue to do so. The House Judiciary Committee, on which I serve, has already launched an investigation into these inhumane acts. I call on President Obama to denounce these practices and do the same.” “I’m grateful that Gov. Abbott has directed the Texas Health and Human Services Commission and the Texas Office of the Attorney General to conduct separate investigations in Texas of the alleged practices portrayed in the horrific video,” Ratcliffe added. U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe is a strong supporter of protecting life, including an original co-sponsor for H.R. 36, the Pain Capable Unborn Child Act, which would generally prohibit abortion beyond 20 weeks after fertilization. He also voted in favor of H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2015, which would establish a government wide prohibition on federal funding of abortion or insurance coverage that includes abortion. Both measures have passed the U.S. House of Representatives.
07.14.2015	This morning, the Obama administration announced a final agreement on Iran’s nuclear program. U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) released the following statement in response. “All signs point to this deal being a disaster. The president’s arguments to the contrary don’t change the facts: the agreement will give Iran billions in sanctions relief, all while allowing centrifuges to continue spinning as Iran moves toward a nuclear weapon. The deal also fails to address Iran’s brutal human rights violations and its destabilizing activities in the region and around the world. Instead, the deal will simply give Iran billions of dollars to intensify its role as a state sponsor of terror throughout the region. The framework of capitulation the administration continues to champion threatens the security of the entire free world.” “Prime Minister Netanyahu’s reaction to the announcement summed it up well: ‘Iran will get a jackpot, a cash bonanza of hundreds of billions of dollars, which will enable it to continue to pursue its aggression and terror in the region and in the world. This is a bad mistake of historic proportions.’ I share his concerns – Iran cannot be trusted. The Obama administration has a history of ignoring Iran’s national strategy of deception. The agreement announced today is based on the mistaken assumption that Iran can be trusted as an honest negotiating partner, despite its track record to the contrary.” “Because of legislation passed in May, this agreement will now come before Congress for review instead of going into effect immediately. It is up to Congress to provide a backstop between a nuclear Iran and the security of the United States and our allies abroad. The agreement announced by the president will endanger our allies and embolden our enemies and I cannot, in good faith to my nation, accept any deal that would allow Iran to continue marching toward a nuclear weapon.” U.S. Representative Ratcliffe represents 18 counties in North and East Texas. He is a member of the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Homeland Security, chairman of the Cybersecurity Subcommittee and member of the House Judiciary Committee. Ratcliffe is a former terrorism prosecutor and U.S. Attorney. Ratcliffe was recently named as one of five freshman appointed to the U.S. House of Representatives Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel. ### FULL TEXT OF THE IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL
07.13.2015	U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe, in defense of First Amendment rights, signed on as a co-sponsor of H.R. 2802, the First Amendment Defense Act. This important piece of legislation will protect the First Amendment rights of all Americans. “The First Amendment Defense Act is a bill that protects all Americans from federal government persecution for following their religious convictions,” said Ratcliffe. “We are a nation founded on values and principles enshrined in the Declaration of Independence and U.S. Constitution. There is a good reason the right to religious liberty appears first in our nation’s Bill of Rights. I am committed to ensuring that the federal government does not force any American to act in a way that violates his or her religious beliefs.” The First Amendment Defense Act would prohibit the federal government from intruding on the individuals' right of conscience and safeguard churches, businesses, and organizations from being denied tax-exemptions, contracts, licenses, and certifications for adhering to traditional marriage views. Under this Act, churches could not lose their tax-exempt status for refusing to conduct same-sex marriages. ###
07.10.2015	Rep. John Ratcliffe, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection, and Security Technologies, issued the following statement in response to the resignation of Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Director Katherine Archuleta: “I am pleased that our calls for Archuleta’s resignation were heard. But the question remains: is the President serious about addressing these issues, or is this a desperate attempt to change the narrative. The colossal breaches at OPM represent serious vulnerabilities that must be fully addressed. Our national security depends on it.” ###
06.26.2015	U.S. Representative John Ratcliffe (R-TX) released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s decision regarding same-sex marriage: "My faith is very important to me and serves as a guiding light for the values I hold dear. Thus, I believe marriage is the union of one man and one woman and disagree with today’s Supreme Court decision. This view is shared by many Americans that have continually gone to the ballot boxes in their respective states to register this very position. The American people have been engaged in an ongoing national conversation about marriage. Yet today, five judges prematurely cut that conversation short. The same Court that previously reserved this issue to the states has now deemed itself a legislature, overriding the votes of millions of Americans instead of ruling on what the Constitution requires. I agree with Governor Abbott’s statement that, 'Despite the Supreme Court’s rulings, Texans’ fundamental right to religious liberty remains protected.' I am committed to ensuring that this ruling does not force any Texan to act in a way that violates his or her religious beliefs."
06.25.2015	U.S. Representative John Ratcliffe (R-TX) released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s decision in the case King v. Burwell: "I am deeply disappointed in the Supreme Court’s decision to not strike down parts of Obamacare. We’ve now seen what happens when Nancy Pelosi and her liberal allies force through a bill that no one even bothered to read, which doubles down on a broken, government-centric health care model. The hard-working Texans I represent should not be forced to bear the burden of a law that was passed in the middle of the night, with no Republican input. I’ve long said that Obamacare is government at its worst – intrusive, expensive and full of broken promises. Worst yet, it continues to hurt job creation and economic growth, while weakening Medicare that seniors in my district depend on. One of the first votes I took as a member of congress was in support of H.R. 596, which would repeal Obamacare in its entirety. I’ve since taken advantage of every opportunity presented to me to remove some of Obamacare’s most harmful provisions – voting to repeal the medical device tax, repeal the IPAB, a board of unelected bureaucrats, and voting to repeal the artificial 30-hour workweek definition. Rest assured, I’m not giving up this fight. I will continue to highlight the ways Obamacare is hurting the 700,000 Texans I represent – be it through skyrocketing premiums, shrunken coverage networks, or reduced work hours. You can count on me to be a leading voice in the ongoing effort to promote and craft a 21st century health care vision that is patient-centered while embracing choice and competition. I am supportive of conservative, market-based reforms that will further take power out of the hands of bureaucrats, empower patients and doctors, reduce costs and increase access to care."
06.23.2015	Today, freshmen Republican, John Ratcliffe, member of the Committee on Homeland Security, chaired by U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Texas, passed his initiative in the U.S. House of Representatives to curb waste, fraud, abuse and to increase transparency at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The initiative, H.R. 1637, The Federally Funded Research and Development Sunshine Act of 2015, introduced by Rep. Ratcliffe, chairman of the Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection, and Security Technologies Subcommittee, helps ensure that DHS’ federally funded research and development centers do not waste taxpayer dollars through fraud and abuse. The detailed annual report the legislation requires brings much needed oversight to better safeguard DHS’ mission from being compromised by fiscally irresponsible practices. “A key role of Congress is to provide oversight. I have a duty to my constituents and the American people to protect hard-earned taxpayer dollars from fraud, waste and abuse,” said Rep. Ratcliffe. “I am grateful for the passage of this act and I look forward to providing effective oversight in the years to come.” House Homeland Security Committee Chairman and fellow Texan, Michael McCaul stated “I commend Rep. Ratcliffe for his leadership in increasing transparency and curbing waste, fraud, and abuse at the Department of Homeland Security. John’s efforts will not only go a long way in ensuring DHS effectively and efficiently meets critical national security missions, his bill at the same time provides great accountability and stewardship of taxpayer dollars.”
06.17.2015	U.S. Reps. John Ratcliffe (TX-04), Brian Babin (TX-36) and Lou Barletta (PA-11) today introduced the No Office Space for Executive Amnesty Act to prohibit the Obama Administration from leasing a new $7.8 million, 11-story building near Washington, DC, that’s being planned to house thousands of new government employees hired to process the President’s illegal executive actions on immigration. “President Obama’s decision to grant amnesty through unilateral executive action makes a mockery of our laws and it must be stopped on all levels,” said Babin. “As we await further action by the federal courts, this legislation will ensure taxpayer funds can no longer be wasted on renting expensive office space for government bureaucrats to carry out the President’s illegal executive amnesty actions. This further protects your tax dollars while advancing our fight to stop the President’s amnesty and restore the rule of law.” “Although federal judges have blocked President Obama’s unlawful executive amnesty for the time being, it is still important that we do all that we can to prevent its implementation. The president is trying to introduce five million more competitors into an already-tight job market at a time when 20 million Americans cannot find work,” said Barletta, who is Chairman of the Economic Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency Management Subcommittee of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “The president has made clear that he intends to ignore Congress in his quest to grant amnesty to illegal immigrants, and we must be equally as determined to exercise our Constitutional power of the purse to stop that from happening.” “The president severely overstepped his constitutional authority when he attempted to legislate from the Oval Office,” said Ratcliffe. “His policies and programs on immigration are not what my constituents have asked for. They sent me to Washington to stand for the constitution, not to rubber stamp its abuse. Not one dime of taxpayer funds should be used to fund actions that side step the constitution. This includes leasing buildings for the purposes of supporting his policies that would provide amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants.”
06.16.2015	In a special round of speeches aimed at highlighting the many executive overreaches of the current administration, U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe took to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to deliver a scathing rebuke to the administration for the politicizing and weaponizing of the federal bureaucracy against its political opponents. Operation Choke Point is an initiative established by the Department of Justice and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) that has been going after legitimate businesses such as ammunition manufacturers and gun shop owners that it does not agree with. “Folks across the 4th District of Texas—in cities and towns like Denison, Sherman, Bonham, Paris, Texarkana, Sulphur Springs, Rockwall, Mount Vernon, Greenville and Commerce – want to run their businesses and enjoy their freedoms without the fear of unwarranted persecution from a president that has clearly overstepped his authority, time and time again,” said Ratcliffe. “Many of the Texans I represent are deeply troubled and concerned about Operation Choke Point. They view this operation as a blunt weapon that targets and stigmatizes entire industries that the Obama administration dislikes, instead of an honest effort to get rid of actual, specific bad actors. When you weaponize your government to go after folks you don’t like and target your political enemies, that’s the way Third World governments operate – not the greatest county the world has ever seen,” added Ratcliffe. In a hearing last month, Rep. Ratcliffe questioned Department of Justice Officials on whether they had sent any additional Operation Choke Point subpoenas since last year’s Congressional hearing. The official said none had been sent, however, many Americans still state they are being targeted through backdoor channels. “Congressional oversight demands that we refuse to step aside and let this unprovoked attack on our rights be ignored. I will continue to stand watch against this overreach. My colleagues and I will not allow our constituents’ rights to be violated and our Constitution to be trampled.”
06.03.2015	In a House Committee on Homeland Security hearing, U.S. Representative John Ratcliffe (R-Heath) questioned administration officials and terrorism experts about The Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) and their use of social media to recruit foreign fighters and spread propaganda and terror to a western audience. “After the attacks in Garland, which resulted in the death of two terrorists, we are presented with a unique challenge. Even though these men were not successful, ISIS still spins this failed attempt as a win,” said Ratcliffe. “ISIS has been encouraging lone wolf attacks with great effect within just a matter of the last few months. Their sophisticated use of social media has become a terrorism multiplier, where these terrorists can use the ISIS brand without joining the group. They have created a terror franchise,” Ratcliffe added. Administration officials agreed with U.S. Rep. Ratcliffe’s assessment. However, U.S. Rep. Ratcliffe urged officials that, in addition to traditional military operations, serious effort should be taken to counter ISIS’ message and make it a “losing brand” throughout the rest of the world. Ratcliffe is a former U.S. Attorney and federal terrorism prosecutor. When serving by special appointment on United States v. Holy Land Foundation, his successful prosecution put individuals in prison who were funneling money to terrorist group Hamas under the guise of a charitable organization. He was recently appointed as a member of the House Homeland Security Committee Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel. To see a video of the hearing, visit https://bit.ly/ISISsocialmedia ###
06.03.2015	In response to the recent flooding across the State of Texas, U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe has been surveying the affected areas with local officials and arming his constituents with the necessary resources to stay safe and informed. Last week, Rep. Ratcliffe visited parts of Bowie County that have been impacted by flooding with County Judge James Carlow. He also spent time at the Lake Texoma Dam and Spillway with Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers commander COL Pratt. “My thoughts and prayers go out to the individuals affected by the floods and storms, those who have lost loved ones, and those who have suffered extreme property damage. I am confident that even though times are tough, our communities will come together to help each other in this time of need. I have stayed in constant contact with local and county officials in the affected areas, Governor Abbott’s office, and the Army Corp of Engineers,” said Ratcliffe. “Seven of the 18 counties I represent have been included on Governor Abbott’s most recent disaster declaration. They include Bowie, Red River, Grayson, Collin, Fannin, Cass and Lamar counties,” said Ratcliffe. At this time, none of the seven counties has had federal funds requested on its behalf by the Governor, but this could change in the coming days and weeks as disaster assessments are updated. Ratcliffe has urged local officials and county judges in the impacted areas to continually update their Disaster Summary Outlines and send that information to the State Operations Center. They must also schedule a preliminary damage assessment. Constituents should continue to exercise caution and remember that all disasters are local. For any immediate needs, local emergency contacts should be the first call. Rep. Ratcliffe has assembled a flood resources page with these numbers and urges constituents to utilize it: https://ratcliffe.house.gov/media-center/blog-posts/4th-district-texas-flood-resources
05.22.2015	U.S. Representative John Ratcliffe (R-Heath) hosted his second telephone town hall this past Thursday in which almost 10 thousand constituents participated. He revealed information about several limited government initiatives he is championing in the U.S. House of Representatives. “I believe the strength of this country comes from the ingenuity of the American people, not the overreach of the federal government,” said Ratcliffe. “The administration continues to tell Texans what they should and shouldn’t be doing without any consideration to the realities on the ground.” “Many concerned constituents on the telephone town hall spoke specifically about how Washington continues to squeeze the middle class in Texas. I say the only way to reign in the federal government is to reduce its size,” Ratcliffe added. One constituent on the call put it best when he said as farmers and ranchers, “we can’t operate at the speed of bureaucracy, we have to operate at the speed of business.” Rep. Ratcliffe’s most recent regulation fighting bill, H.R. 1759 , All Regulations are Transparent act of 2015, was recently approved by the House Judiciary Committee. Rep. Ratcliffe also introduced an amendment to the Legislative Branch Appropriations bill which would eliminate all funding for the Open World Leadership Center, a duplicative and wasteful program, which has cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars since its inception. Additionally, this appropriations bill continues the freeze on pay for members of congress and maintains the 14 percent reduction on spending since 2011. Rep. Ratcliffe’s amendment was the only amendment added to this legislation. “With a national debt over $18.2T, we must take a serious look at each and every program. This specific program is duplicative in nature, and with nearly 90 identical programs spread out across other agencies, it’s simply no longer necessary. I’m pleased my amendment to eliminate it passed, and I will continue to fight for a more limited, less wasteful government,” Ratcliffe said. To find out more about Rep. Ratcliffe’s limited government initiatives, visit www.ratcliffe.house.gov ###
05.14.2015	U.S. Representative John Ratcliffe (Texas-04) will host a telephone town hall on May 21 starting at 7 p.m. CT. A telephone town hall is a live, toll-free town hall meeting over the phone in order to give you an opportunity to ask questions about issues facing Congress and the federal government. “The priorities of the people of our district are my priorities,” said Ratcliffe. “Every time I go to cast my vote on the floor of the House, I think of the 700,000 people I have the privilege of representing. For me to be the best congressman I can be, I feel that it’s important to hear directly from constituents and develop personal relationships with the people I represent. I’m grateful for every opportunity I have to get their input.” “The 4th Congressional District of Texas is very large and includes 18 counties. Engaging with constituents requires a lot of time on the road, and traveling the district meeting folks is the best part of my job,” said Ratcliffe. “But since I can’t be everywhere at once, these telephone town halls are a great opportunity for me to ensure that I connect with as many constituents as possible. I want to encourage all constituents to take part in my telephone town hall,” Ratcliffe added. To sign up for the congressman’s live telephone town hall you should register at https://vekeo.buzz/r1C or call his office in Washington at 202-225-6673.
05.11.2015	Congressman John Ratcliffe announced the winners for the high school art competition his office held in conjunction with the U.S. House of Representatives. The 2015 Grand Prize Winner is Aaron Tamez of Royse City High School followed by Piper Fisk, Rylie Power and Colton Johnson. “I am extremely impressed with the quality of artwork my office received this year. Aaron Tamez’s artwork was sensational and will represent our district and Royse City well in the halls of the U.S. Capitol.” said U.S. Rep. Ratcliffe. “Ms. Power, Mr. Johnson and Ms. Fisk should be extremely proud of their work as well, along with the rest of the young artists that participated in this year’s contest. I appreciate how these students’ teachers and parents supported their efforts. All of these students are very talented and have bright futures.” Ratcliffe added. The Congressional Art Competition, themed “An Artistic Discovery,” is an opportunity to recognize and encourage the best artistic talent throughout each congressional district. The competition is open to all high school students. The overall winning artwork of each participating district will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol. The 4th Congressional District of Texas winners were selected by nine judges from across the District, including college art department heads, art league members and accomplished artists. The winners: Grand Prize Winner – Aaron Tamez “1950’2 Rustic Beauty”; Artwork will hang in the Capitol. 1st Runner-Up – Piper Fisk “Forward”; Artwork will hang in Mr. Ratcliffe’s D.C. Office. Rockwall Heath High School 2nd Place – Rylie Power “It Is Not the Same Anymore”; Artwork will hang in Mr. Ratcliffe’s D.C. Office. Texas High School 3rd Place- Colton Johnson “Happy With You”; Artwork will hang in Mr. Ratcliffe’s D.C. Office. Texas High School Honorable Mentions (in no particular order) Emily McLeod –“Colorful Sighting” Hooks High School Cole Wallace - “Rustic Ichthus” Royse City High School Jera Davis - “Cooled Off” Texas High School Marie Ramirez - “Lighting Away” Chapel Hill High School Ashalee Wagstaff - “Persistence of Memory” Hooks High School Maricela Hernandez “The Dance” Chapel Hill High School Each student who entered, with the exception of the Grand Prize Winner will be eligible for the “People’s Choice Award,” an online competition where constituents can vote by liking a student’s artwork at https://on.fb.me/1JFIhDl (U.S. Rep. Ratcliffe’s Facebook Page). The People’s Choice Award winner will also be featured in U.S. Representative Ratcliffe’s D.C. office. Mr. Tamez will also receive two round-trip airline tickets to attend the winners’ reception in Washington, D.C. with Congressman Ratcliffe. Contest finalist artwork is currently featured here: https://ratcliffe.house.gov/media-center/photo-galleries/2015-congressional-art-competition
05.06.2015	U.S. Rep John Ratcliffe will hold a grand opening ceremony and open house for his district office in Sherman, May 8, 2015 from 4-6 p.m.. The ceremony will begin at 4 p.m. CST with the open house to immediately follow. “I am grateful and honored to represent the 4th District of Texas,” Ratcliffe said. “My staff members in Sherman –Regional Representative Kris McKinney and Field Representative Cole Moore – are committed to exemplary constituent service. All of us collectively work for the people of the 4th District and do everything possible to ensure that all constituent inquiries and requests are handled in a timely and professional manner. My office provides numerous services for the people of our district – everything from assistance in dealing with government red tape to help with a federal agency. I look forward to the ceremony and talking with constituents.” Congressman Ratcliffe was sworn in as a member of the 114th United States Congress on Jan. 6 2015. The 4th Congressional District of Texas includes 18 counties in Northeast Texas that touch parts of the Oklahoma, Arkansas and Louisiana borders. Ratcliffe has district offices in Rockwall, Sherman and Texarkana. DATE: Friday, May 8, 2015 TIME: 4:00 – 6 p.m. CT LOCATION: Grayson County Courthouse, 100 West Houston, First Floor, Sherman TX CONTACT: Phone: (903) 813-5270
05.04.2015	In a horrific act of terror, two men opened fire at an art event in Garland, Texas. U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe, (R-Texas) issued the following statement: "There is no place in our society for senseless acts of terror to threaten and intimidate our constitutionally protected right of free expression. I am grateful that law enforcement in Garland acted courageously to stop the extremists who perpetrated the attack. My thoughts and prayers go out to everyone affected by this shooting, and I am pleased to hear that the wounded officer is expected to fully recover." U.S. Rep. Ratcliffe represenets 18 Countines in North and East Texas. Rep. Ratcliffe is a former terrorism prosecutor, currently sits on the House Committee on Homeland Security and is a member of the Task Force on Combatting Terrorism and Foreign Fighter Travel. ###
05.01.2015	This week, The House of Representatives passed H.R. 2029, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. This bill provides funds for military construction and funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs. U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) introduced an amendment to this bill that would prohibit any funds from being used for additional round of BRAC (base realignment and closure). His amendment passed by voice vote. “I’m grateful to offer this bipartisan amendment, which would simply prohibit any funds made available in the act from being used to propose, plan for, or execute a new or additional round of BRAC,” said Ratcliffe. “I’m honored to represent the 4th Congressional District of Texas, which is home to the Red River Army Depot. The Depot has supported the war fighter since 1941. It is a vital job creator for northeast Texas, and a critical component of our national defense,” Ratcliffe added. “In this fiscal environment, we must be careful stewards of taxpayer dollars and focus our limited resources on addressing critical national security objectives and military readiness. Having another round of BRAC will not help us achieve this goal. Starting another round of BRAC would weaken our capabilities and increase our vulnerability in the face of critical threats facing our nation.” Dennis Lewis, Commissioner for the Texas Military Preparedness Commission applauded U.S. Rep. Ratcliffe’s actions: "It is important we keep the focus of Red River Army Depot on its mission, supporting the readiness of our fighting forces. Prohibiting the use of funds to plan for an additional round of BRAC allows the depot to focus on its mission without the distraction of worrying about the potential consequences of a BRAC," said Lewis. “If the Congress has extra money to spend, they need to spend it on readiness, not funding the planning for another round of BRAC. I strongly support Congressman Ratcliffe's amendment." Texarkana Chamber of Commerce Director, Bill Cork also commended Ratcliffe’s commitment to protecting the Depot: “Legislation provoking another round of BRAC in the absence of a consensus strategy related to our national defense needs makes absolutely no sense. While we are aware that excess infrastructure may exist at military facilities across the US, there are plenty of existing authorities that can be used to address those issues," said Cork. “The Bowie County region has taken extraordinary actions and made appropriate and extensive local investments to improve the military value of Red River Army Depot. This important installation proved indispensable in the war on terror despite the Department’s assertion in 1995 and again in 2005 that the facility and capability resident here wasn’t needed. The Department’s track record of picking winners and losers during BRAC has been costly and often wrong. Until we can be convinced of its necessity, there will be opposition for another round of BRAC from this community,” Cork added. The Government Accountability Office estimates that the last round of BRAC in 2005 cost the American taxpayers $35.1 billion – which is 67 percent more than the original cost estimate. In addition, the expected savings from the last round of BRAC have been reduced by 73 percent.
04.28.2015	The Export Import Bank (Ex-Im) is a federal agency that seeks to increase U.S. exports to other countries by giving taxpayer-funded loans to American companies. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) issued the following statement regarding calls for its reauthorization by Congress: “As a limited-government conservative, I believe that the government should not be in the business of picking winners and losers or unnecessarily encroaching upon private market activity. The Ex-Im epitomizes crony capitalism and brings more government where less is needed. I believe Ex-Im conflicts with the free enterprise principles that have made America great. It is a form of corporate welfare that poses a great risk to taxpayers, and now is the time to end the Export Import Bank.”
04.23.2015	In a vote of 355 - 63 H.R. 1731, the National Cybersecurity Protection Advancement (NCPA) Act passed in the U.S. House of Representatives and now will make its way to the Senate. The bill is sponsored by House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul and Cybersecurity Subcommittee Chairman John Ratcliffe. Recognizing the enormous threat that cyber-attacks pose to America’s national security and the personal privacy of its citizens, this legislation creates a much needed framework to promote the timely exchange of critical cyber threat indicators. “Much hard work went into the creation of this legislation, and I’m grateful to see it pass so convincingly,” Ratcliffe said. “My constituents sent me to Congress to solve problems, and the National Cybersecurity Protection Advancement Act does just that. Hundreds of millions of Americans have had their privacy compromised by cyber adversaries who hope to disrupt our way of life and use our personal information for their own financial gain. This legislation will help safeguard personal privacy and prevent cyber intrusions from occurring.” The recent cyber-attack of Sony Pictures by North Korea highlighted the national security implications of America’s cybersecurity posture. The subsequent hack of CENTCOM social media accounts by ISIS sympathizers further reinforced the need to combat this rapidly evolving threat head on. “As a former United States Attorney and terrorism prosecutor, I’m committed to ensuring that malicious nation state actors don’t have the upper hand in cybersecurity,” Ratcliffe said. “Too much is at stake. An attack on our nation’s critical infrastructure – the electric grid, water supply, and gas pipelines which power our economy would be crippling. This legislation addresses this vulnerability in a meaningful way.” During the committee process, Ratcliffe added an amendment to make it abundantly clear that the framework of this bill cannot be used for surveillance purposes. “Ultimately, this legislation will arm those who protect our networks with valuable cyber threat indicators that they can use to fortify defenses against future attacks,” Ratcliffe added. “I am grateful to have been able to work with fellow Texan, and House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul throughout this process.” U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe is the chairman of the Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Security technologies in the House Homeland Security Committee. He represents the 4th Congressional District of Texas, which consists of 18 counties in Northeast Texas.
04.15.2015	The House Judiciary Committee approved H.R.1759, the All Economic Regulations are Transparent (ALERT) Act, by a vote of 14-9. The bill requires the administration to give the American people detailed information about upcoming regulations and prohibits regulations from taking effect unless this information is available for six months. Regulations imposed by unelected bureaucrats have an enormous impact on families and small businesses. Employers want to focus on creating jobs for hard-working Americans. But complicated and unnecessary regulations can force them to spend vast amounts of time and money figuring out how to comply. These regulations come out nowhere, giving businesses little time to prepare. Current law requires the administration to release an update twice a year on the regulations being developed by federal agencies. Yet under President Obama, these updates have been late—if they have been issued at all. Up to this point, there hasn’t been a way to enforce these requirements. The ALERT Act would address this pattern of delay by increasing the quality and frequency of information that must be shared with the American people about upcoming regulations. The administration will have to explain the cost of regulations, the impact they will have on jobs, and the regulations’ legal basis. The bill prevents new rules from taking effect unless the public has had this information for six months—making compliance easier for small businesses. U.S. Representative John Ratcliffe (R-Texas), chief sponsor of the ALERT Act, and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised the Committee’s passage of the bill. U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe: “As I travel the 4th Congressional District of Texas, I hear the same message over and over again: get the government out of the way. Too many small businesses and hard-working families are drowning in regulations that unelected bureaucrats create out of thin air. I’m a limited government conservative who believes that economic prosperity and comes from the ingenuity of the American people, not the overreach of the federal government. The ALERT Act forces President Obama and the executive branch to make the American people aware of regulations that are coming down the track, so that they don’t get steamrolled in the process of trying to comply.” Chairman Goodlatte: “President Obama made a promise to the American people that he would release the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions on a proper timetable, but has consistently broken his promise. Instead, the president has released these vital regulatory frameworks on his own timetable, which has been a detriment to small-business owners. Thousands of small businesses across the country do not have sufficient time and resources to adjust their budgets and business practices in anticipation of regulatory changes. The ALERT Act directly holds the administration accountable by putting consequences in place for failing to release these important regulatory documents.” ###
04.15.2015	Yesterday, the Committee on Homeland Security unanimously passed bipartisan legislation to improve our nation’s cybersecurity defenses by encouraging voluntary sharing of cyber threat indicators critical to preventing future attacks. H.R. 1731, the National Cybersecurity Protection Advancement (NCPA) Act of 2015, introduced by Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Texas, chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, and Rep. John Ratcliffe, R-Texas, chairman of the Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection, and Security Technologies Subcommittee, passed by voice vote without opposition. Subcommittee Chairman Ratcliffe said: “I’m grateful that this legislation was unanimously passed by the Homeland Security Committee. Securing Americans’ privacy and the integrity of their personal information is precisely why Congress must act. The National Cybersecurity Protection Advancement (NCPA) Act will enhance the capabilities and relationships that the private sector has worked so hard to develop, while establishing procedures to safeguard personal privacy. If the private sector does not have access to timely cyber threat indicators – the tools, tactics, and techniques of other attempted intrusions – we are putting our homeland in grave danger. The time is now for commonsense legislation like this that protects personal information from cyber intrusions, prevents widespread disruption to vital sectors of our economy, and safeguards our homeland from ongoing cyber threats,” said Ratcliffe. “I’m also grateful that my amendment to this legislation was added that alleviates the privacy concerns of many by including an expressed and explicit prohibition preventing any information shared with the Department of Homeland Security’s civilian cyber portal from being used by the federal government for surveillance purposes. My amendment provides a clear and robust privacy protection without in any way discouraging or prohibiting the true purpose of this bill,” Ratcliffe added. Chairman McCaul said: “This cybersecurity bill, now headed for the House Floor, is the result of extensive bipartisan coordination in Congress and months of regular meetings and consultation with industry and privacy advocates. This bill is supported by Republicans and Democrats alike because it protects Americans’ private information and encourages voluntary information-sharing about cyber threats to safeguard America’s digital networks. I thank the Members of the Committee for reporting out a bipartisan bill that helps protect America’s digital landscape.” For additional information visit: https://homeland.house.gov/cyber
04.13.2015	Today, U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Texas, chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, and U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe, R-Texas, chairman of the Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Security Technologies, will introduce the National Cybersecurity Protection Advancement (NCPA) Act to improve cybersecurity by encouraging voluntary information-sharing about cyber threats between and amongst the private sector and government. The Committee on Homeland Security will consider the bill in an open mark up tomorrow, April 14, at 11 a.m. in 311 Cannon House Office Building. Chairman McCaul and Subcommittee Chairman Ratcliffe said: “Cyber criminals, hacktivists, and nation-states will never stop targeting Americans’ private information and American companies' and government networks to damage, disturb and steal intellectual property and U.S. Government secrets. One of the greatest cyber threats to the homeland is the weakness of our power grids, and energy and water systems. A successful cyber attack on our critical infrastructure could cripple our economy. Congress must take action to defend America’s vital digital networks and help American businesses better protect themselves." The NCPA Act bolsters our nation’s cybersecurity by providing the liability protections industry needs and the privacy protections Americans demand and deserve. This pro-security, pro-privacy bill is the result of close collaboration with industry and privacy stakeholders and other committees in the House. Specifically, the NCPA Act bolsters cybersecurity by: Providing liability protections to companies for the voluntary sharing of cyber threat indicators and defensive measures with the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center (NCCIC) or with other private entities; Granting liability protections for private companies to conduct network awareness of their own information systems; Allowing companies to operate defensive measures and conduct network awareness on information systems they own or operate; and Preserving existing public-private partnerships to ensure ongoing collaboration on cybersecurity. The NCPA Act protects Americans’ privacy and civil liberties by: Designating the NCCIC as the lead civilian ‘portal’ for voluntary cyber threat information sharing; Enhancing DHS’s already robust Privacy Office to ensure the NCCIC complies with all civilian laws that protect Americans’ privacy and civil liberties; Requiring private companies to ‘scrub’ and remove personal information unrelated to the cybersecurity risk before sharing with the NCCIC or other private entities; Instructing the NCCIC to conduct a second ‘scrub’ and destroy any personal information that is unrelated to the cybersecurity risk before further sharing with other government entities or private entities; and Ensuring that cyber threat information is used solely to prevent and respond to cyber attacks and enhance the nation’s cyber defenses – it cannot be used for any law enforcement or surveillance purposes. Full text of the bill is available HERE. ###
04.13.2015	Currently, the national debt sits at a staggering $18 trillion. Within the next decade, the interest on this debt alone will cost American tax payers over $800 billion a year. Admiral Mike Mullen, former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, recently stated that our skyrocketing debt represents one of the greatest threats to our national security. To fight the growing national debt, U.S. Representative John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) has introduced a bill, H.J. Res 41, A Balanced Budget Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. If enacted this legislation would amend the U.S. Constitution to require that Congress balance the federal budget each year. “I was elected to do more than just talk about problems – I was sent to Washington to help solve them,” said Ratcliffe. “It’s time to tackle our out-of-control spending head on, and that’s why I’m grateful to announce that I have introduced my own Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution to ensure that the federal government lives within its means.” The main provisions of Ratcliffe’s bill require that: -Total spending in any fiscal year not exceed total receipts. -Caps federal spending at 18% of GDP. -Requires the president to submit a balanced budget to Congress each year. -Requires each house of Congress to approve a balanced budget. Pay for members of congress is suspended if this objective is not met. -Provides mechanisms to enforce this amendment through the judicial system. “Too often, politicians on both sides of the aisle refuse to make tough decisions, and continue to kick the can down the road,” Ratcliffe added. “If we don’t act now, it’s our children and grandchildren that will be forced to pay the price. The time is now to act to ensure that future generations are given a fair shot at the American dream.” To find out more about H.J. Res 41, you can visit U.S. Rep. Ratcliffe’s website at ratcliffe.house.gov. U.S. Rep. Ratcliffe represents 18 counties in North and East Texas. He is a member of the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Homeland Security, chairman of the Cybersecurity Subcommittee and member of the House Judiciary Committee.
04.02.2015	U.S. Representative John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) released the following statement today after the administration announced a framework for a nuclear deal with Iran: “When Prime Minister Netanyahu addressed a joint session of Congress last month, he warned of something which bears repeating: a bad deal with Iran is worse than no deal at all. I wish President Obama had heeded this advice,” said Ratcliffe. “This indeed is a very bad deal, and its framework of capitulation threatens the security of the entire free world. Sanctions relief will be provided in the near term for some vague good behavior promised by Iran in the future.” “The president tried to sell the American people on the merits of the agreement by presenting three alternatives: his deal, the status quo, or efforts to convince the international community to impose new sanctions,” Ratcliffe added. “This was an intellectually dishonest assessment of the situation. Clearly, Iran barreling towards a nuclear weapon is unacceptable, and this deal does not fundamentally change its ability to do so. It is now up to Congress to provide a backstop between a nuclear Iran and the security of the United States and our allies abroad.” U.S. Representative Ratcliffe represents 18 counties in North and East Texas. He is a member of the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Homeland Security, chairman of the Cybersecurity Subcommittee and member of the House Judiciary Committee.
03.27.2015	Today, the freshmen Republican members of the Committee on Homeland Security, chaired by U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Texas, announced an initiative to help curb waste, fraud, abuse and to increase transparency at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The initiative includes seven pieces of legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. Buddy Carter, R-Ga., U.S. Rep. Will Hurd, R-Texas, U.S. Rep. Barry Loudermilk, R-Ga., U.S. Rep. Martha McSally, R-Ariz., U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe, R-Texas, U.S. Rep. Mark Walker, R-N.C., and U.S. Rep. John Katko, R-N.Y. H.R. 1637, the Federally Funded Research and Development Sunshine Act of 2015, introduced on Wednesday by Rep. Ratcliffe, chairman of the Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection, and Security Technologies Subcommittee, requires annual reports on the activities and accomplishments of DHS’s federally funded research and development centers. “A key role of Congress is to provide oversight. I have a duty to my constituents and the American people to be a budget watchdog and protect taxpayer dollars from fraud, waste and abuse,” said Rep. Ratcliffe. “I am grateful to be able to introduce this act and I look forward to providing effective oversight in the years to come.” “I applaud the effort of my committee’s freshmen members to prove their dedication to saving taxpayers’ dollars within their first 100 days of working for their constituents in Congress,” said Chairman McCaul. “Each of these bills to curb waste, fraud, abuse and to increase transparency will help to ensure DHS is efficiently and effectively meeting its critical national security missions.”
03.27.2015	U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Heath) in his first telephone town hall announced he has introduced one of his first pieces of legislation in Congress – the Executive Amnesty Prevention Act, H.R. 1715. In November, President Obama took executive action to grant amnesty to up to 5 million illegal immigrants. He did so by circumventing Congress, despite over 20 public statements where he previously described such actions as unconstitutional. The president, through various memorandums and executive action has refused to enforce the law as it currently stands. U.S. Rep. Ratcliffe has introduced legislation to combat this executive action and publically announced this new bill at his first telephone town hall, held this past week. “The president severely overstepped his constitutional authority when he attempted to legislate from the Oval Office,” said Ratcliffe. “Members of Congress have a duty to uphold the Constitution and work within the confines of the law. We are a nation of laws, and if a law must be changed, we have a constitutionally bound legislative process that’s been in place for over 200 years to do just that. “ “The president’s actions circumvent the laws as they are written,” added Ratcliffe. “My legislation prohibits the president’s distortion of current law and nullifies his use of executive memorandums that provide amnesty to illegal aliens, forcing him to execute the law as it was written. I was pleased to announce the introduction of this bill directly to my constituents on my first telephone town hall.” When enacted, U.S. Rep. Ratcliffe’s legislation would prohibit the use of funds to carry out any of the president’s executive action that provides amnesty to illegal aliens. In addition to prohibiting the use of funds to carry out President Obama’s orders to grant amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants, the bill clarifies that illegal immigrants who have been granted amnesty cannot be authorized to work in the United States. His bill has garnered the support of five co-sponsors – Rep. Brian Babin (TX-36), Rep. Gary Palmer (AL-6), Rep. Barry Loudermilk (GA-11), Rep. Dave Brat (VA-7), and Rep. Mark Walker (NC-6).
03.23.2015	U.S. Representative John Ratcliffe (R-Heath) will host his first telephone town hall, March 26 starting at 7 p.m. A telephone town hall is a live, toll-free town hall meeting over the phone in order to give you an opportunity to ask questions about issues facing Congress and the federal government. “The priorities of the people of our district are my priorities,” said Ratcliffe. “Every time I go to cast my vote on the floor of the House, I think of the 700,000 people I have the privilege of representing. For me to be the best congressman I can be, I feel that it’s important to hear directly from constituents and develop personal relationships with the people I represent. I’m grateful for every opportunity I have to hear from each and everyone one of them.” “The 4th Congressional District of Texas is very large and includes 18 counties. Engaging with constituents requires a lot of time on the road, and traveling the district meeting the people I’m privileged to represent is the best part of my job,” Ratcliffe added. U.S. Rep. Ratcliffe will also be launching a series of local events titled coffee with your congressman. “Over the coming days I will be hosting the ‘coffee with your congressman’ events in Denison, Rockwall, Royse City, Texarkana, Bonham and Gilmer. If I’m not in a city near you this time, I will be next month. “ “That being said, I can’t be everywhere at once. That’s why I wanted to host this telephone town hall – the first in the history of this district – to let you know what I’m up to and what my priorities are. Similarly, it’s an opportunity for constituents to ask me questions directly.” To sign up for the congressman’s live telephone town hall you should register at https://ratcliffe.house.gov/telephone-town-hall-sign or call his office in Washington at 202-225-6673. To find out the upcoming schedule for “Coffee with your Congressman” go to https://ratcliffe.house.gov/contact/your-community. For information when the congressman will be in your area, follow him on Facebook at www.facebook.com/RepRatcliffe.
03.18.2015	U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe, R-Texas, chairman of the Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Security Technologies Subcommittee in the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement on the cyber breach at Premera Blue Cross, an insurance plan provider: “This most recent cyber breach reinforces the need for meaningful cybersecurity legislation to increase sharing of cyber threat indicators within the private sector and between both the government and private sector. The cyber breach also demonstrates that the threat landscape is rapidly evolving and must be addressed – in this instance, individual health records were likely compromised. Further inaction is what most threatens Americans’ privacy. Under the status quo, personal information remains vulnerable. Securing Americans’ personal information and privacy is precisely what compels congressional action.” Subcommittee chairman Ratcliffe has recently discussed the need for cybersecurity legislation to address liability protections.
03.10.2015	U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe (TX-4), has selected Kris Berry McKinney to serve as Regional Representative for the Grayson County office of the 4th Congressional District of Texas. “I am deeply honored to be chosen for this position as I know what this office means to our area and its residents,” McKinney said. “I look forward to joining U.S. Rep. Ratcliffe and his team. I firmly believe that the congressman is representing us well in Washington and is deeply committed to the people of our district and our needs locally.” As U.S. Rep. Ratcliffe’s Regional Representative, Kris will focus on Grayson, Fannin, and Lamar counties and the northern area of Collin County. She will join the Constituent Liaison already working in U.S. Rep. Ratcliffe’s District Office located inside the Grayson County Courthouse in Sherman. “Kris McKinney is a wonderful addition to my Grayson County office,” said Ratcliffe. “Her dedication to constituent service and deep ties to the community will be a great asset to the area.” A Denison native and fourth generation Texan, McKinney has been a small-business owner and community leader in Grayson County for many years. She brings her knowledge of the area and her passion for community outreach to her new position. She is currently a board member of the Texoma Health Foundation which serves a four county area including Grayson and Fannin County. McKinney is a former board member of Texoma Medical Center and was a leader in the Development Committee which raised funds for Reba’s Ranch House and other regional health care projects. McKinney graduated from Austin College with a degree in Business Administration. She is Co-Chairman of Texoma Women Get Connected and past Vice President of the Austin College Alumni Board. The 4th Congressional District of Texas includes 18 counties in the northeast corner of the state which touch parts of the Oklahoma, Arkansas, and Louisiana borders. The Sherman office is located in the Grayson County Courthouse on the second floor and can be reached at (903)-813-5270 or ratcliffe.house.gov/contact.
03.04.2015	In a bipartisan letter, John Ratcliffe, (R-TX) and 238 other Members of Congress expressed strong concern to Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) Director B. Todd Jones about the Obama administration’s plan to ban a popular bullet used for the AR-15. Americans own more than 5 million AR-15s, which are the most commonly used rifles for sports shooting as well as home protection. Although the ammunition used for the AR-15 has been exempted under federal law for sporting purposes for over 30 years – which allows it to be lawfully manufactured, imported, and sold on the civilian market in the United States – the ATF recently announced a “Framework” with the intention to ban the manufacture and importation of the second most common ammunition used for the AR-15, the M855 or “green tip.” “I am deeply concerned about this new attempt by the Obama administration to interfere in the lives of Americans. The Constitution explicitly states that the people’s right to bear arms shall not be infringed upon,” said Ratcliffe. “I will stand strong against any effort which attempts to deny or limit this right. As a committed conservative, I stand firmly behind the Constitution and the God-given, inalienable rights we are endowed with. I anxiously await the response from Director Jones.” In the letter, the Members of Congress write that the ATF’s “Framework” “establishes an unduly restrictive standard, does not comport with the letter or spirit of the law, and will interfere with Second Amendment rights by disrupting the market for ammunition that law abiding Americans use for sporting and other legitimate purposes.” They also express concern that the agency’s “Framework” was not published in the federal register, which is required when the executive branch creates a new rule. The full text of the letter can be found here
03.03.2015	In an address to the United States Congress, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel emphasized the importance of the U.S.-Israeli relationship. He stressed the existential threat posed by violent Islamist extremism and denounced any agreement between the United States and Iran that fails to prevent Iran’s pursuit of nuclear weapons and capabilities. U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe (TX-4) joined a majority of Republican members of congress in attendance. “The bond between the United States and Israel is unparalleled. We are both friends and allies. Indeed, Israel is our strongest and most strategic ally in the Middle East, and our continued commitment to Israel must be unwavering,” said Ratcliffe. “In a region where tyranny thrives, political and economic freedoms are rare, and violent Islamist extremism is rampant, Prime Minister Netanyahu has been an ardent defender of the shared American-Israeli values of freedom and democracy. Prime Minister Netanyahu is a leader who with every fiber of his being believes in the exceptionalism of his nation, and that came through powerfully in his speech.” Prime Minister Netanyahu has consistently been critical of Obama Administration efforts to negotiate nuclear deals with Iran. Netanyahu believes that any agreement that falls short of dismantling Iran’s nuclear infrastructure is simply unacceptable. In his speech, he described the current negotiations by saying, “This deal has two major concessions: leaving Iran with a vast nuclear program and lifting the restrictions after a decade.” “The negotiations between the Obama administration and Iran regarding Iran’s nuclear program are deeply troubling,” said Ratcliffe. “Iran persists in calling for Israel’s total annihilation, yet reports indicate that a U.S.-Iran deal would allow Iran to continue down the path to obtaining a nuclear weapon. Prime Minister Netanyahu and I are both genuinely concerned critics of Iran’s dangerous nuclear program – one which seeks to further destabilize the Middle East and threatens Israel, the United States and the rest of the free world. I will continue to stand with Israel, oppose the lifting of sanctions on Iran, support Israel’s right to self-defense, and support Israeli efforts to defeat terrorism.” Ratcliffe is a former terrorism prosecutor and U.S. Attorney. He served as a prosecutor by special appointment in United States v. Holy Land Foundation which successfully led to the imprisonment of individuals for funneling money to the terrorist group Hamas. Ratcliffe was recently named as one of five freshman appointed to the U.S. House of Representatives Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel.
02.25.2015	Today, U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Texas, chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, and U.S. Rep. Bennie Thompson, D-Miss., ranking member of the Committee on Homeland Security, announced the creation of a bipartisan “Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel” in response to the threat from extremists fighting overseas and the danger they pose to the U.S. homeland. Comprised of five Republicans and three Democrats, the Task Force will assess the U.S. government's efforts to obstruct terrorist travel and to keep violent extremists from entering the United States. The Task Force will meet with government agencies, top officials, outside experts, and others to generate policy solutions and develop legislative recommendations to mitigate the threat. This task force includes U.S. Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-TX). “As a former terrorism prosecutor, I can attest that America cannot be a nation of ideals while sitting idly on our hands and pretending the threats of violent Islamist extremists do not exist. America must lead against this aggression, and I am grateful to be a part of this task force dedicated to fighting terrorism,” said Ratcliffe. Ratcliffe has firsthand experience combating terrorism. When serving by special appointment in U.S. v. Holy Land Foundation, he convicted individuals who were funneling money to Hamas behind the front of a charitable organization. Other members on the Task Force will include: Rep. John Katko, R-N.Y., Republican Lead; Rep. Loretta Sanchez, D-Calif., Democratic Lead; Rep. Will Hurd, R-Texas; Rep. Barry Loudermilk, R-Ga., Rep. Martha McSally, R-Arizona.; Rep. Donald Payne, Jr., D-N.J.; R-Texas; Rep. Filemon Vela, D-Texas. ###
02.20.2015	Greenville, TX - Congressman John Ratcliffe and 28 fellow Members of Congress requested that Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert McDonald provide details on implementation and funding for the recently enacted Veterans Choice program. The administration recently proposed a reduction in resources in the president’s Fiscal Year 2016 budget. The program, a cornerstone of the Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act, was signed into law last August to expand choice for veterans living in rural areas and those facing lengthy wait times. After the VA's waitlist scandal, Congress enacted this legislation to allow veterans to go outside the VA system and get private medical care. "Hearing directly from veterans last week at the American Legion Post in Greenville about their frustrations with the VA underscores the unfortunate fact that the VA system is simply not living up to its promises. Beyond this letter, I intend to continue an ongoing dialogue with the 57,000 veterans I’m privileged to represent about the challenges and frustrations they face on a daily basis," said Ratcliffe. "I am committed to being a tireless advocate for those who have risked their lives for our freedom and use their stories in Washington to help advance the national debate on this important issue. I will continue to work with the Chairman of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee to prevent the VA from blocking veterans’ access to private, and often life-saving, health care. The administration should not be allowed to start implementing a program in November, and then throw in the towel three months later with no explanation." Ratcliffe was joined by Representatives Roger Williams, Doug Collins, Bradley Byrne, Doug LaMalfa, Frank Guinta, Tom Cole, Ryan Zinke, Leonard Lance, Scott Tipton, Mark Amodei, Louie Gohmert, Blaine Luetkemeyer, Pete Olson, John Culberson, Glenn Thompson, Bill Flores, Walter Jones, Randy Weber, Chris Collins, Brian Babin, Bruce Poliquin, Bill Johnson, Martha McSally, Rod Blum, Dan Newhouse, Will Hurd, Marsha Blackburn and David McKinley. The Honorable Robert McDonald Secretary Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Secretary McDonald, It has been over half a year since the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act was signed into law, yet veterans are still struggling to gain adequate healthcare. More importantly, for those of us who represent rural districts, the Veterans Choice program represented a new opportunity to address the wait time backlog for veterans. While this program aims to help veterans living in areas with limited VA access, details surrounding its implementation, and the president’s recent budget, have raised some concerns. Last week, President Obama released his Fiscal Year 2016 budget and chose to raid funding for the Veterans Choice Program that he signed into law a mere 6 months ago. The Choice Program was designed to directly help eligible veterans seek care outside the Veteran Affairs (VA) network if they experience a wait time over 30 days or don’t live within 40 miles of a VA clinic. As a pillar of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act, it stood to show Americans that the VA was trying to improve and change its scandal plagued culture. Simply put, cutting funding for this program to relieve other deficit shortfalls is a step backward for those of us who supported this breakthrough legislation. Although the President’s budget is just a proposal and the VA network has improved since its widespread scandal in 2014, members of Congress are still left asking themselves many of the same questions. Fundamentally, how can we effectively care for our veterans? Basic in nature, this question sets the foundation for improvement. To answer it, several questions need to be asked regarding the programs designed to improve our veterans’ lives: • Was the VA consulted before determining cuts to funding for the Veterans Choice program? • Are the cuts a signal by the VA that the program has been unsuccessful and will not be renewed? • Although some veterans live within the 40 mile limit set by the VA to be eligible for the Choice Card program- roads seldom create such direct path. Shouldn’t the 40 mile VA clinic proximity rule apply to actual road mileage? • What steps are being taken to address concerns about VA facilities that are within the 40 mile limit, but do not provide the necessary medical services the veteran requires? • How effective has the VA been in reimbursing health care providers who accept the Choice Card? As Congress continues with its budget process in the weeks and months ahead, knowing the current state of the Choice Card program will allow members to consider appropriate funding levels. We appreciate all the work you have done on behalf of veterans and look forward to your response. Sincerely, ###
02.20.2015	In a visit to the Red River Army Depot and Texarkana College, Congressman John Ratcliffe (R-TX) met with local community and business leaders in the Bowie County area. The Congressman’s Texarkana office followed these meetings with an open house, attended by a large number of constituents. “The priorities of the people of our district are my priorities,” said Ratcliffe. “Every time I go to cast my vote on the floor of the House, I think of the 700,000 people I have the privilege of representing. For me to be the best Congressman I can be, I feel that it’s important to hear directly from constituents and develop personal relationships with the people I represent. I’m grateful for every opportunity I have to visit with folks in the Texarkana area, and look forward to returning soon.” The Congressman and his staff toured the Red River Army Depot, hearing from leaders of both the private and military side of Depot leadership. Congressman Ratcliffe underscored the critical role that Red River Army Depot has played and will continue to play in the region. “The Red River Army Depot is the Center for Industrial and Technical Excellence (CITE) for the Bradley Fighting Vehicle and has had an enduring partnership with BAE on that platform. With BAE under contract to produce the Armored Multi-Purpose Vehicle, I anticipate that the Depot will remain the CITE for the next generation armored operating vehicle that is based on the Bradley platform. I expect that the Depot’s partnership with BAE will serve the Army’s maintenance needs well into the future. The Red River Army Depot is an enormous asset to the region, and will continue to play a critical role in the Army’s effort to develop its future fighting force.” The Congressman has scheduled over 20 meetings with constituents and community leaders across the entire 18 counties of the fourth Congressional District. For information when the Congressman will be in your area, follow him on Facebook at facebook.com/RepRatcliffe. ###
02.18.2015	Texas Federal Judge Andrew Hansen issued a temporary injunction halting the Executive Amnesty program announced last year by President Barack Obama. The ruling comein response to a lawsuit from December 3rd, 2014, by then Texas Attorney General Greg Abbot on behalf of the State of Texas. Texas joined with sixteen other states at the time of the filing, the number has now increased to twenty-six states. Congressman John Ratcliffe, (R-TX) issued the following statement after the injuction: "The decision by a federal judge in Texas to temporarily halt the President’s action to provide amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants underscores the significance of the President’s lawlessness. On January 6th I took an oath to uphold and defend the Constitution. This conviction is what motivated my Republican colleagues and I to dismantle the president’s executive amnesty in its entirety. Two branches of the federal government have now weighed in. Senate democrats should stop stonewalling efforts to hold the President accountable. Now is not the time for them to give him a free pass to continue to break the law." ###
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - The U.S. House of Representatives moved to pass H.R. 644, the Fighting Hunger Incentive Act. This legislation promotes charitable giving through tax breaks for people and organizations that give to local food banks by making permanent a food-inventory donation provision in the tax code. John Ratcliffe (TX-04) has supported and voted in favor of this tax-reducing bill. "Moving to eliminate the tax burden for hard working Americans has always been one of my driving motivations as an elected official. While I was a mayor of Heath, Texas, I was able to keep the budget balanced and taxes low through good governance. This legislation provides a permanent reduction in taxes for charitable donations. It also encourages charitable giving to organizations that help my constituents, like Harvest Texarkana," said Ratcliffe. Camille C. Wrinkle, CEO/Executive Director of Harvest Texarkana Regional Food Bank, INC added that, "as a food bank that serves a large number of rural, low-income families, Harvest Texarkana Regional Food Bank is constantly seeking additional resources for hunger relief. The expansion of these charitable deductions, will allow for more food to be given to our food bank and to the 60,000 food insecure individuals we reach throughout a ten county are in Southwest Arkansas and Northeast Texas. Any incentive that increases our food inventory has a direct, positive impact on the mostly working poor families, seniors and children we serve." Mr. Ratcliffe added, "I will continue to work to reduce taxes for my constituents. At the heart of America is a spirit of generosity. I'm grateful to vote in favor of compassion." ###
02.11.2015	CLICK HERE TO SEE THE VIDEO Februrary 11th, 2015 Contact: Shayne L. Martin, 202-226-6673 John Ratcliffe: America Must Lead CLICK HERE TO SEE THE VIDEO "Hi Friends, This week the President has continually attempted to downplay his foreign policy failures. But the fact is that we continue to live in a dangerous world where our enemies actively attempt to kill Americans and our allies and threaten our way of life. The actions of ISIS prove that a world without a strong America is a very dangerous world. In addition, the tragic death of Kayla Mueller, an American held by ISIS - underscores the need for America to lead again. We cannot be a nation of ideals while sitting idly on our hands and pretending these threats do not exist. America must lead against the aggression of violent Islamic extremists (VIE). The President described the recent atrocities perpetrated by ISIS upon innocent civilians as “random” - these aren’t random, these are barbaric acts by a serious enemy that must be stopped. We must act to ensure the safety of Americans both at home and abroad. Providing for the common defense is a duty expressly charged to the federal government in the Constitution. I am incredibly saddened by the death of Kayla. I hope this tragedy strengthens our resolve to fight for liberty and freedom where it is most vulnerable. -God Bless Kayla, and all those who have lost their lives in the defense of these sacred values."
02.07.2015	ROCKWALL, TX - Six residents of the United States were indicted Friday on terrorism charges involving the Islamist terror group ISIS, federal prosecutors said. The group has been accused of sending firearms accessories and military equipment to aid Bosnian native Abdullah Ramo Pazara, who left the United States in 2013 to join ISIS in Syria. Congressman John Ratcliffe (R-TX), House Homeland Security Committee and Judiciary Committee member and former federal terrorism prosecutor, issued the following statement: “The President continues to ignore one of the greatest threats to our national security – that of violent Islamist extremism. While he continually releases hardened terrorists from our custody and does everything he can to close Guantanamo Bay, extremists are recruiting foot soldiers right here on American soil. Look at the announcement that six residents of the United States were indicted on terrorism charges involving the Islamist terror group ISIS. As a former federal terrorism prosecutor, I can tell you firsthand that there are individuals both at home and abroad that seek to do great harm to America and its allies. To combat the threat of these individuals and groups like ISIS, we must ensure that our intelligence and law enforcement tools are strong enough to identify and combat terrorist cells within the United States.” ###
02.05.2015	In an announcement today, the Anthem Health Insurance Company, a for-profit managed health care company in the Blue Cross network suffered a major cyber-attack. It is estimated that “tens of millions” of records were stolen. Congressman John Ratcliffe, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection, and Security Technologies in the U.S. House of Representatives released the following statement: “The cyber-attack on Anthem Health Insurance reinforces the need for meaningful cybersecurity legislation to increase sharing of cyber threat information between private business and the government. The nature of this breach is especially troubling as it strikes at the heart of an individual’s personal information. This event underscores the need for us to do more to detect and respond to the growing cyber threat. Protecting Americans’ privacy is what compels us to act, because every day, nation-state actors and cyber criminals seek to do us harm.” “I will continue to work with Chairman McCaul and other committees of jurisdiction to pass legislation that will encourage and enable stronger cyber vigilance in both the private and public sectors. I believe in a strong defense that recognizes the need to protect against cyber threats as a critical component of broader efforts to defend our homeland. The threat to our borders—both physical and digital—is too great to ignore.” ###
02.03.2015	In a vote of 239-186, The U.S. House of Representatives moved to fully repeal the Affordable Care Act - commonly known as Obamacare - and instruct Committee Chairmen to craft better solutions to reform health care in America. Congressman John Ratcliffe cosponsored and voted to approve H.R. 596 - to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and health care-related provisions in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010. This legislation now moves to the Senate for approval. Congressman John Ratcliffe delivered this statement on the approval of H.R. 596: “This week, I joined with colleagues in the House to pass H.R. 596 - a full repeal of the disastrous legislation known as Obamacare. The President’s health care law is government at its worst – intrusive, expensive, and full of broken promises. Worst yet, it continues to hurt job creation and economic growth. There are many examples right here at home that demonstrates the harm that Obamacare continues to cause. In Grayson County, Obamacare is forcing the county to restrict part-time and temporary employee hours. Additionally, with the uncertainty of Obamacare’s tax and regulatory implications, the county is handcuffed in its effort to make strategic, long term plans about the health care it provides to employees. It’s now looking like Obamacare will further cause premiums to increase for families across my district and the entire country unless the Senate and President act to pass the legislation we have passed in the House. Nancy Pelosi told us we needed to pass Obamacare to see what was in it. Now we have seen firsthand the consequences of passing a 2,300 page law that no one read which doubles down on a broken, government-centric health care model. I’m proud to have voted to repeal Obamacare in its entirety and will continue to be a leading voice in the effort to present conservative solutions to lower the cost of health care while increasing patient access.” ###
02.02.2015	Contact: Shayne L. Martin, 202-225-6673 The President recently released his Fiscal Year 2016 budget request which outlines increased taxes by $2.1 trillion and proposes major tax hikes on savings, investment, and small businesses, while increasing the cost of hiring workers. The budget also increases spending by $74 billion for next year and $322 billion over five years. The President’s budget would grow total federal spending by $259 billion over the current baseline – 7% for next year alone. The budget would also increase interest costs, almost tripling them. Interest on the national debt this year would be $229 billion but would rise to $785 billion in 2025 under the proposed budget. The request adds $8.5 trillion to the debt and increases cumulative deficits by $5.7 trillion, increasing national debt to $26.3 trillion by 2025. Congressman John Ratcliffe stated, “The President’s budget grows the size of our bloated federal government at a time when we should be shrinking it. His priorities are rooted in increasing the power of Washington, not helping hard-working Americans. It is this failed, top-down strategy which the great people of this country so resoundingly rejected this last election. As elected officials we have an obligation to make tough decisions, and borrowing from future generations to finance the excess of today represents an immoral abandonment of this duty. I will continue to fight against the President’s reckless agenda and do everything in my power to ensure that my two daughters have the same shot at the American dream that I’ve been blessed with.” ###
01.29.2015	McAllen, TX – Accompanied by several other members of Congress, Representative John Ratcliffe (TX-04) traveled to several border states including California, Arizona, and southern Texas to inspect border security measures and get input from personnel on the front lines of this important effort. After returning from the trip the Congressman stated that, “Seeing the border up close and talking to the dedicated personnel tasked with securing it gave me an invaluable perspective. The number one goal of the federal government as enumerated by the Constitution is to provide for the common defense, and this starts with securing our borders. Each border sector presents its own unique challenges. Instead of just making top-down statements from Washington, it’s critical that we understand these challenges up close to promote ground-level solutions that will actually drive results.” Members of the Homeland Security Committee spoke with several agencies to better understand the evolving national security threats to our homeland – how to most effectively secure our land and sea borders, deploy cutting-edge technology in these efforts, and support inter-governmental integration and cooperation. ###
01.23.2015	Congressman Ratcliffe (TX-04) Gives Statement on his Support to Right To Life: "Hello friends, today I would like to take an opportunity to stand up for those who are unable to stand up for themselves. The Declaration of Independence, the foundational document of this great country, boldly proclaims that every person is endowed with the right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. It is tragic that over 50 million Americans have had that right to life denied as a result of abortion – literally a lost generation. Every Life is a Gift and I am grateful to join with other pro-life colleagues in Congress and millions of Americans all across this country to fight to protect the rights of unborn children and prevent taxpayer dollars from funding abortion. This week I have cosponsored The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act and the House has moved to pass H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2015, legislation that support a culture that values every human life. But while the laws we pass in Washington as it relates to life are important, the most important work when it comes to preserving life doesn’t happening in DC, it happens in our communities. Texas has been a leader on this issue for years with its effective promotion of crisis pregnancy centers all across the state. These centers help pregnant mothers in need and ensure that their children enter this world healthy and with abundant opportunity. Centers in our district like the Raffa Clinics in Greenville and Commerce, Heart of Hope Pregnancy Resource Center in Sulphur Springs, Fannin Pregnancy Care Center in Bonham, Paris Pregnancy Care Center, True Options Pregnancy Care Center in Sherman, and First Choice Pregnancy Resource Center in Texarkana all do great work and we need more of them. I’m also grateful of organizations like National Right to Life, Texas Right to Life, and Concerned Women for American for their dedicated work on this important issue. I’m blessed with two beautiful daughters, but only needed to see the miracle of life once to realize that the right to life, God’s greatest gift, needs to be defended vigorously. Thank you all for joining me in pursuit of this cause, and God Bless."
01.21.2015	Click Here For The Video On Tuesday evening, President Obama delivered his annual State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress and the American people. Outlining a proposal to substantially raise taxes, the President laid out a vision for America that grows the size of the federal government, puts more regulatory power in Washington, and continues a dangerous trajectory of out-of-control spending. Congressman John Ratcliffe (R-TX, Rockwall, Sherman, Texarkana) delivered a response to the President’s big government agenda, which emphasized the need to bring a dose of conservative, Texas values to Washington, D.C. “The State of the Union address is a time-honored tradition that allows for reflection and an opportunity to debate the best course forward for our country. Republicans and Democrats both care about America -- but we hold different views about whether you should have the ability to make your own future – or whether the government should define that future for you. For the last six years the president’s policies have been about expanding the government instead of moving it out-of-the-way. The result is $18 trillion dollars of debt, an unpopular health care law, open borders, over taxation, over regulation, and a president who has trampled our constitution to get what he wants. There are fewer Americans participating in the workforce today than at any time since Jimmy Carter was our president. If President Obama really wants to create jobs and grow the economy, instead of growing government, he would follow the lead of Texas, were we’ve created more jobs in the last five years than all other states combined. That’s what happens when you have less government, less taxation, and less regulation. I’m part of new Congress sent here by Americans who rejected President Obama’s mandates. In our first two weeks, we’ve already passed bills to stop the president’s executive amnesty, to create jobs and promote energy through the Keystone Pipeline, to hire more veterans and repeal the worst parts of Obamacare. I’m optimistic about our future because for the first time in six years Republicans are fighting back, and I’m grateful to have the opportunity to do that on your behalf. Thank you and God bless America.” ###
01.14.2015	In a stern rebuke to President Obama, Congressman Ratcliffe voted for and the House approved several pieces of legislation aimed at combating unlawful executive amnesty, reducing federal regulations, and encouraging small businesses to grow. January 14, 2015 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Shayne L. Martin Congressman Ratcliffe Takes Strong Stance Against President’s Executive Amnesty WASHINGTON DC – In a stern rebuke to President Obama, Congressman Ratcliffe voted for and the House approved several pieces of legislation aimed at combating unlawful executive amnesty, reducing federal regulations, and encouraging small businesses to grow. Most notably, H.R. 240, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2015 and amendments to the bill dismantle the President’s executive amnesty while funding the agencies necessary to protect our homeland. The language approved today covers all executive orders, memos, instances of prosecutorial discretion, and future actions the President may make that ignore the Constitution. In November, President Obama took executive action to grant amnesty to up to five million illegal immigrants. He did so by circumventing Congress, despite over 25 public statements where he previously described such actions as unconstitutional. Congressman Ratcliffe supported all amnesty-opposing amendments to H.R. 240 and overall passage of the bill, “The President severely overstepped his Constitutional authority when he attempted to legislate from the Oval Office. Members of Congress have a duty to uphold the Constitution and work within the confines of the law. We are a nation of laws, and if a law must be changed, we have a constitutionally bound legislative process that’s been in place for over 200 years to do just that. My constituents in Northeast Texas share my frustration with a President who thinks he is above the law.” Congressman Ratcliffe added, “We must continue to take measures to dismantle the President’s actions. His move to unilaterally grant amnesty to illegal immigrants demonstrates how out of touch he is with the wishes of the law abiding citizens of this country. Furthermore, it’s an insult to everyone who waits his or her turn and follows the established legal framework to earn citizenship. We cannot let the President continue to defy the Constitution, and I’m grateful to support this legislation alongside many of my colleagues in the Texas delegation.” Congressman Ratcliffe also voted in favor of H.R. 37 - Promoting Job Creation and Reducing Small Business Burdens Act, H.R. 203 - Clay Hunt SAV Act, H.R. 33 - Protecting Volunteer Firefighters and Emergency Responders Act, and H.R. 185 - Regulatory Accountability Act of 2015. ###
01.12.2015	Sixteen members of the Texas Delegation – Congressman Brian Babin, Congressman Kevin Brady, Congressman John Carter, Congressman Blake Farenthold, Chairman Bill Flores, Chairman Jeb Hensarling, Congressman William Hurd, Congressman Sam Johnson, Chairman Michael McCaul, Congressman Randy Neugebauer, Congressman Pete Olson, Congressman Ted Poe, Congressman John Ratcliffe, Chairman Pete Sessions, Chairman Lamar Smith, and Chairman Mac Thornberry, issued the following joint statement supporting legislation to fight against President Obama’s unconstitutional executive amnesty plan. Congressman Ratcliffe stated that, “Members of Congress have a duty to uphold the Constitution and work within the confines of the law. We are a nation of laws, and if a law must be changed, we have a Constitutionally bound legislative process that’s been in place for over 200 years to do just that. When I was the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Texas, I was the top federal law enforcement officer for a 33,000 square mile area. In this role, I took an oath to enforce all laws, even the ones I didn’t personally agree with. The President’s executive decrees on amnesty are an attempt to push a personal political agenda while circumventing the Constitution. This sets a dangerous precedent which simply cannot be tolerated. The legislation at hand prevents the President from engaging in this unlawful and unconstitutional activity by barring funds to be expended for his political maneuvering with regards to executive amnesty. The constituents in my district aren’t above the law, and neither is the President. I am proud to support this legislation alongside many of my colleagues in the Texas delegation.” The Texas Delegation Letter: “As members of the Texas delegation, we will continue to stand firmly against any action that erodes our constitutional values, degrades our nation’s rule of law, and circumvents the legislative process. Since the President announced his amnesty plan, we have been vigorously fighting against his unconstitutional actions and have been working together to find effective solutions to win this battle." “Last December House Republicans vowed to take up legislation in the second week of the 114th Congress to fight the President’s illegal executive fiat. Today the Republicans of the Texas Delegation join together in support of legislation that is scheduled to be considered by the House this week that stops the President’s amnesty plan and reflects our conservative values. This legislation would prevent the President from enforcing his executive amnesty plan by barring any funds from being used to carry out his executive actions or any other related illegal executive action that he might take in the future. While we recognize the value that legal immigrants bring to our nation and the economy, we must ensure that our laws are followed. We support this legislation because it enforces the law, secures our border, and reinforces the oath that we have taken as legislators to preserve and protect the Constitution. " “As Members of Congress, we have the responsibility to effectively work within the constraints of the Constitution and the limits of the law. As members of the Texas delegation, we have the responsibility to act in the best interest of the people of Texas. This week we will uphold both of those responsibilities by preserving our nation’s rule of law, fighting for the people of Texas, and combating the President’s unconstitutional, unilateral actions.” ###
01.09.2015	In a major effort to pass legislation that would benefit the Fourth District of Texas, Congressman John Ratcliffe’s first order of business was to be an original cosponsor of legislation to approve and build the Keystone XL Pipeline. The full U.S. House of Representatives moved to pass the legislation this Friday, January 9th. On September 19, 2008, the Canadian energy and infrastructure company TransCanada filed an application with the U.S. Department of State to build the Keystone XL pipeline, an expansion of the existing Keystone pipeline. The landmark Keystone XL pipeline expansion would carry up to 830,000 barrels of oil per day 875 miles from Alberta, Canada to Steele City, Nebraska. From there, the oil would go to refineries in the Midwest and Texas. Additionally, the existing pipeline contains 6 Pump Stations in the state of Texas, one of which, PS-36, is in Delta County. “I am proud to have my name on this commonsense piece of legislation that will create good-paying American jobs while growing our economy and supporting increased manufacturing and trade,” said Ratcliffe. “Let’s get more of these conservative, job-creating measures passed. It’s unacceptable that legislation like this has been stuck in the Senate while too many Americans sit around without jobs. That’s why I was sent here, to put true conservative solutions, like this bill, into law.” The State Department’s estimates that "during construction, proposed Project spending would support approximately 42,100 jobs (direct, indirect, and induced), and approximately $2 billion in earnings throughout the United States.” To put this impact into perspective, the 42,000 jobs its passage will create is 12,000 more than the total unemployed population across the entire 4th Congressional District. President Obama has since vowed to veto the legislation, even if it passes through both chambers of Congress. “Unfortunately, President Obama is indicating that he'll veto this legislation if it passes through both houses of Congress. I hope and pray that this is just an idle political threat-- because if it's not, the president is intentionally harming the middle-class Americans who will benefit from this great job creating and income producing legislation. I hope and pray that our president won’t play politics with legislation that provides opportunities for tens of thousands of Americans to get jobs and support their families,” said Ratcliffe. Ratcliffe’s vote in favor of the Keystone XL Pipeline caps off a busy week of passing conservative legislation. He also cosponsored H.R. 30, The Save American Workers Act of 2015 which restores the 40 hour work week, repealing the 30 hour provision under Obamacare. Ratcliffe also signed on as a cosponsors to a balanced budget amendment and repeal of the medical device tax. Next week, he intends to support legislation which defunds the President’s executive amnesty. “I was sent to Washington to deliver results for the hard-working people in my district, and that’s what I intend to do,” said Ratcliffe. “Ultimately, I will be judged by my legislative record – what I support, what I oppose, and what I introduce. I’m proud of the conservative bills we passed this week, but this is just the start. I will work tirelessly to combat the President’s lawlessness, restore fiscal sanity, secure our borders, repeal Obamacare, and defend the Constitution.”
01.06.2015	WASHINGTON DC - Representative John Ratcliffe (R-TX) issued the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives conducted its swearing-in ceremony for the 114th Congress, which began today at noon. Representative John Ratcliffe (R-TX) issued the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives conducted its swearing-in ceremony for the 114th Congress, which began today at noon. “I am honored and humbled to represent the people of the Fourth District of Texas” said Rep. Ratcliffe. “Our nation needs strong, conservative leaders to protect our liberty and defend the Constitution. An enormous amount of trust has been placed in me, and I plan on working incredibly hard to promote the conservative values needed to give my two daughters the same shot at the American dream that I’ve been blessed with.” Congressman John Ratcliffe will serve on both the Judiciary and Homeland Security Committees in the 114th Congress. Both committees are vital to the protection and security of the American people. “I’m grateful to have the opportunity to serve on two committees with jurisdiction over areas of critical importance to the American people,” Ratcliffe said. “These committees allow me to continue to fight illegal immigration, oppose any form of amnesty, and work to secure our border. My previous experiences as a U.S. Attorney and terrorism prosecutor will give me valuable subject matter expertise in the policy areas these committees oversee.” Ratcliffe has also been selected as the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection, and Security Technologies. “The protection of our American values, business, and way of life is in jeopardy unless we, as a country, take a strong stance against cybersecurity threats. Allowing foreign countries and terrorist to threaten our infrastructure and freedom of speech will not be tolerated,” said Ratcliffe. The 114th Congress begins with a number of pressing issues requiring immediate attention – $18 trillion of national debt, record numbers of illegal immigrants flooding our borders, an unpopular healthcare law which continues to hurt millions of families and businesses, and a struggling middle class from a weak economy. “I look forward to working with my colleagues to advance the conservative agenda so desperately needed to put our country on a better path. It is clear that our country needs a conservative voice in congress that is not a “go along to get along” politician. I am a limited-government conservative with a proven record of defending the Constitution and balancing budgets. I will build on this record and work to preserve a strong national defense, protect our homeland, grow our economy, and create good-paying American jobs by reducing the size of the federal government. I look forward to bringing a good dose of Texas common sense to Washington. With more freedom and less government, I’m confident our country’s best days are indeed ahead of us.” The Fourth Congressional District of Texas includes 18 counties in Northeast Texas. Ratcliffe now has district offices open in Rockwall, Sherman, and Texarkana. Contact information for the offices can be found at ratcliffe.house.gov
01.06.2015	The 114th freshman class stands ready for the new Congress. A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th U.S. Congress will commence on January 6th, 2015 in Washington, DC. The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th U.S. Congress will commence on January 6th, 2015 in Washington, DC. The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
01.05.2015	FOR IMMIEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Shayne L. Martin TEXAS CONGRESSMAN-ELECT JOHN RATCLIFFE NAMED AS CYBERSECURITY SUBCOMMITTEE CHAIRMAN WASHINGTON DC – Congressman-elect John Ratcliffe has been named as the next subcommittee chairman on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection, and Security Technologies. The 113th Congress passed the first major legislative effort to protect our homeland against cybersecurity threats in a decade. In the 114th Congress, Cybersecurity will be a top priority. With the announcement of his subcommittee chairmanship, Congressman Ratcliffe said, “The protection of our American values, business, and way of life is in jeopardy unless we, as a country, take a strong stance against cybersecurity threats. Allowing foreign countries and terrorists to threaten our infrastructure and freedom of speech will not be tolerated,” said Ratcliffe. Some of our most malicious threats come from those who wish to do our country harm by shutting down our power grid, energy or water systems. “With cases such as the Target and Home Depot security breaches, The hack on Sony, and countless other attacks by groups wishing to cause harm in any way to our infrastructure, business, and way of life, I will work diligently with all members of the subcommittee to provide aggressive solutions to protect our homeland” said Ratcliffe. Chairman McCaul added, “I am pleased to announce fellow Texan, John Ratcliffe, as the chairman of the Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Security Technologies. His experience as Chief of Anti-Terrorism and National Security for the Eastern District of Texas at the U.S. Department of Justice will prove invaluable as the U.S. continues to face growing terror threats and cyber-attacks at home and abroad. I have no doubt John will be a suitable and natural leader for this subcommittee. I look forward to working with him to create a stronger and more effective approach to our national security.” “I want to thank Chairman McCaul, a fellow Texan, for this opportunity to provide a conservative voice to this invaluable subcommittee” said Ratcliffe. “I have always stood for a strong defense of the homeland and part of having a strong national defense is a robust and active cybersecurity policy. As the subcommittee chairman, my top priority will be the protection of our nation’s critical infrastructure from cyber-attacks and to provide strong solutions to diminish cybersecurity threats against America that incorporate a limited-government approach that does not add to our budget deficits” Ratcliffe added. ###
