12.03.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – TODAY, December 3, 2014, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I – Staten Island/Brooklyn) issued the following statement regarding the Staten Island grand jury’s decision in the Eric Garner case: “There’s no question that this grand jury had an immensely difficult task before them, but I have full faith that their judgment was fair and reasoned and I applaud DA Donovan for overseeing this case with the utmost integrity. As we all pray for the Garner family, I hope that we can now move forward and begin to heal together as a community.” Rep. Michael G. Grimm represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
11.21.2014	STATEN ISLAND, NY – TODAY, November 21, 2014, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I – Staten Island/Brooklyn) issued the following statement on the 50th anniversary of the opening of the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge: “While the Verrazano Bridge has certainly become an iconic symbol- reminding us of the ingenuity and craftsmanship that defines our borough, it’s also a constant reminder that what was meant to improve the quality of life on Staten Island has become one of the biggest banes of our existence,” Rep. Grimm said. “It’s a perfect example of the disconnect that comes with living in the forgotten borough- you can’t build a bridge that will explode population density without investing in the requisite transportation infrastructure. Now, with the MTA’s announcement of even more outrageous toll hikes, it’s just another reminder that while the bridge was paved with good intentions, the massive traffic and exorbitant tolls have been devastating for middle class Staten Islanders and our local economy.” Rep. Grimm concluded, “I think it’s fair to say that all of Staten Island’s elected officials are united in our efforts to prevent these devastating and economy-crushing toll hikes.” Rep. Michael G. Grimm represents New York’s 11th Congressional District, which includes both sides of the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge. ###
11.20.2014	STATEN ISLAND, NY – TODAY, November 20, 2014, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I – Staten Island/Brooklyn) issued the following statement reacting to President Obama’s announcement tonight of his intent to grant legal status to millions of undocumented immigrants living in the United States through unilateral executive action: “This is a shameless act of defiance against the will of the American people, as evidenced by the fact that even countless Democrats begged the President not to grant blanket amnesty before the recent midterm election,” Rep. Grimm said. “I’ve made clear since day-1 that I reject amnesty and believe that we cannot have an honest discussion about immigration reform until we first secure our borders. Unfortunately, the President’s unilateral executive order does nothing except create a class of non-citizen residents that further complicates our already convoluted immigration system, and proves that he has zero interest in actually working with Congress to accomplish long-term, meaningful reform.” Rep. Grimm concluded, “The priorities of this President and the left-wing base this move is aimed at pleasing are completely backwards, especially at a time when our focus should be on strengthening our economy to put middle class Americans back to work and taking care of our seniors and veterans.” Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
11.18.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – TODAY, November 18, 2014, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I – Staten Island/Brooklyn) issued the following statement condemning the murderous assault on a Jerusalem synagogue Tuesday, which took the lives of 4 innocent worshippers (including 3 Americans) and wounded several others: “This vicious rampage against peaceful worshippers once again shows the true depth of Hamas’ savagery and the threats facing our Israeli allies and Jewish Americans abroad,” Rep. Grimm said. “Now more than ever, the Israeli people deserve to know that they have our full, unwavering support in combating these horrific attacks on their very way of life.” Rep. Grimm concluded, “I pray for these victims and their grieving families, especially for our fellow Americans brutally murdered in the attack, and look forward to swift justice to all terrorists seeking to harm innocent Jewish lives.” Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives and is the Co-Chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus. ###
10.01.2014	STATEN ISLAND, NY - TODAY, OCTOBER 1, 2014, REP. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I – NY) announced that starting today, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will begin issuing refunds to over 1 million flood insurance policyholders nationwide that were forced to pay astronomical premiums hikes resulting from unforeseen triggers in the Biggert-Waters Act of 2012. Rep. Grimm’s landmark flood insurance relief bill, H.R. 3370, the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act, which was signed into law in March of this year, prevented these rates from continuing to skyrocket, provided refunds to those forced to pay the higher rates, and allowed countless homeowners to maintain affordable flood insurance and remain in their homes: “Starting today, millions of Americans, including thousands of homeowners in Staten Island and Brooklyn living in flood-prone areas will be able to remain in their homes and enjoy a breath of much-needed financial security,” Rep. Grimm said. “This is exactly why I ran for Congress in the first place- to deliver real, tangible results to the hardworking, middle class families of Staten Island and Brooklyn, and I’m proud that we’re seeing these results in action today. Thanks to Congress rising above partisanship and passing my bill earlier this year, starting today my constituents will be able to afford their homes, buy and sell their homes, and avoid a crippling housing market crisis in our community.” *** According to FEMA, flood Insurance premium refunds resulting from Congressman Grimm’s legislation, the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2014 (Public Law-113-89), will start going out to policyholders beginning today, October 1, 2014, with all refunds expected to go out by the end of this calendar year. FEMA estimates that 1 million policyholders nationwide (approximately 1 in 5 flood insurance policyholders) will receive refunds. Refunds will go out to property owners that were affected by one of 3 triggers in the Biggert-Waters Act which resulted in an immediate loss of their lower, subsidized rates ( (1) those whose properties were sold after July 6, 2012, (2) those who purchased a new policy after July 6, 2012 or (3) those who reinstated a lapsed policy after October 4, 2012.) In addition, policyholders whose annual increase in 2013 violated the 18% individual annual premium increase cap set by the Congressman’s bill will also receive refunds. FEMA estimates that some rebates will be as high as several thousands of dollars. FEMA also plans to implement an optional $10,000 deductible starting in April 2015 as required by the Congressman’s reform bill. FEMA estimates that this new higher deductible could save policyholders up to 40% per year in their annual premium over the standard minimum deductible. Rep. Michael Grimm is a member of the Home Protection Caucus and authored Congress’ major flood insurance reform package, H.R. 3370, the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2014, which became law in March and spared millions of Americans across the country, particularly those in flood-prone areas in Brooklyn and Staten Island, from astronomical flood insurance premium increases ###
09.18.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– TODAY, September 18, 2014, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) announced the awarding of a $200,000 grant to Staten Island Legal Services that will be used to assist victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking and dating violence. The grant was awarded by the Justice Department’s Office on Violence Against Women: “Reports of domestic violence on Staten Island have risen dramatically in recent years, in part because of an increasing awareness that violence in the home and within relationships should not be tolerated or swept under the rug,” said Rep. Grimm. “The message we must continue to send to people who find themselves in violent, abusive situations is that there is support for those who come forward, and that they are not alone. This grant marks another important step forward in this effort by providing tangible, necessary resources that can help people, especially women, get out of a violent environment.” The funding - which will help Staten Island Legal Services provide an array of legal support to victims of abuse on matters including family law (divorce, child custody, child support), immigration, housing and offender accountability - will come from the Department of Justice’s Legal Assistance for Victims Grant Program. This program was created by the Violence Against Women Act of 2000. Rep. Grimm proudly voted to reauthorize the program with the passage of the Violence Against Women Act Reauthorization in 2013. Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – TODAY, September 17, 2014, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) issued the following statement on his reluctant vote in favor of an amendment to H.J.Res. 124 authorizing support – including training, weapons, and equipment – to moderate forces in the Free Syrian Army (FSA) currently resisting the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) in the region: “There’s no doubt that ISIL poses a greater threat to American safety than any terrorist group we have ever seen, and this vote lends some immediate support to the only force, albeit imperfect, resisting ISIL in Syria,” Rep. Grimm said. “Taking no action, and allowing ISIL to expand unchecked is simply not an option, however the President’s proposal is a small piece of a flawed and incomplete strategy to deal with this extreme threat,” Rep. Grimm continued. Rep. Grimm outlined three key reasons why the President’s approach to ISIL is likely to fail: 1) Betting on the FSA has the same odds of success as a coin flip at best: “Using the FSA as a proxy ground force has a serious risk of backfiring, with American weapons ending up in the hands of ISIL. Furthermore, it’s unrealistic to believe that we can train and equip enough rebels in the time needed to actually be effective in destroying ISIL, even with U.S. air support,” Rep. Grimm said. 2) The President has failed to secure the support of an international coalition to defeat ISIL: “The ‘international coalition’ that the President promised simply hasn’t materialized, and that’s a direct result of his failed foreign policy and utter lack of credibility among our allies,” Rep. Grimm went on to say. 3) The President’s disregard for the advice of U.S. military leaders is a dangerous mistake: Rep. Grimm concluded, “The President still continues to disregard the advice of our military leaders who have and continue to ask for more resources and commitment to securing victory. Bottom line: the President appears to lack the will and conviction to get the job done.” Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11), a Marine combat veteran of the Gulf War, represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
09.10.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – YESTERDAY, September 10, 2014, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) took to the floor of the House of Representatives to make a statement commemorating the victims of the September 11th terrorist attacks on our nation 13 years ago today. Rep. Grimm also renewed the call for the House to act quickly in passing the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act: Click Here for a Video of Rep. Grimm’s Tribute See below for text of Rep. Grimm’s remarks from the House floor: “I thank the gentlewoman from New York. And I echo the sentiments of my colleagues with the need to reauthorize the Zadroga bill in a timely fashion. Mr. Speaker, I rise alongside my colleagues in the New York delegation also to honor and commemorate the nearly 3,000 innocent Americans whose lives were cut short in the unspeakable attacks on our Nation 13 years ago. Like so many of my constituents in Staten Island and in Brooklyn, I have images of the most horrific sight that I have ever seen burned into my memory forever. I will never forget what it was like searching for the survivors in the rubble after both towers of the World Trade Center disintegrated into ash. I will never forget the look in the eyes of the firemen, the police, the construction workers as we worked side-by-side. It was a look of overwhelming despair. And though our hearts broke at the loss of those taken from us, I am very proud of the fact that Americans soon rallied together. We united around an unshakable truth that the servants of hatred and terror did not strike the greatest Nation on Earth at random but because we embodied the very freedom and liberty that they so despise. As Senator McCain said on the floor of the Senate the day after the attacks, ``Those who unleashed these attacks and those who support them are not our enemies alone. They are the enemies of freedom and independence, of justice and peace. And they wage war on the United States because we are and will remain the principal guarantors of freedom.'' Mr. Speaker, in the Arrochar neighborhood of Staten Island lies a beautiful memorial dedicated to some of the 274 Staten Islanders murdered on 9/11, many of whom were first responders and fallen heroes of our beloved FDNY and NYPD, all of whom went above and beyond the call of duty to bring their fellow New Yorkers to safety. Amidst the pictures and devotions to the fallen lies an inscription: ``On September 11, 2001, the World Trade Center was attacked by terrorists. From that hatred, a little piece of heaven evolved here called Angel's Circle.'' It reminds us, Mr. Speaker, that from the horror and despair our Nation endured on 9/11 - and endures in all of our hearts until this day - comes the constant reminder of our strength, our pride, and the unwavering heroism at the heart of the American spirit. May God eternally bless the victims of 9/11. May he bring peace to their loved ones. And may we never, ever forget the sacrifice they bore for our freedom.” ----------------------------------------------------------------- Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives, a district which lost hundreds of residents on 9/11. Thanks to the Zadroga Act, over 60,000 responders or survivors are getting treatment or medical monitoring in the New York area and across the country. The individuals receiving care through the World Trade Center Health program have at least one injury, though many have multiple injuries. Included in those receiving medical treatment are over 2,800 people who have been certified as having a 9/11 cancer. The Zadroga Act also reopened the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund (VCF) to provide economic compensation for losses incurred from the aftermath of the attacks. The VCF has made over 1,300 compensation determinations and has deemed over 7,000 injured 9/11 individuals eligible for compensation. ###
09.08.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– TODAY, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) issued the following statement applauding the House’s passage of Senator Rob Portman’s (R-OH) bill S.231, the Senate companion to Rep. Grimm’s Multinational Species Conservation Funds Semipostal Stamp Reauthorization Act (H.R. 262), which extends the availability of the Save Vanishing Species stamp for an additional four years. The stamp provides an opportunity for the public to voluntarily contribute to conservation efforts by purchasing the stamp. The U.S. Postal Service then gives the proceeds from stamp sales to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to fund projects for endangered keystone wildlife species including African and Asian elephants, rhinoceros, tigers, great apes and marine sea turtles: “Extending the popular Save Vanishing Species stamp gives Americans across the country a unique opportunity to support both the budget-strapped U.S. Postal Service and the worthy cause of protecting endangered wildlife worldwide,” Rep. Grimm said. “With no cost to the taxpayer or a single cent added to our deficit, this bipartisan legislation will go a long way in supporting critical animal conservation efforts and the outstanding work of zoos and aquariums like the Staten Island Zoo.” “Thanks to this action by Congress, there is good news on the horizon for some of the globe’s most iconic and imperiled species,” said Michael Markarian, chief program & policy officer of The Humane Society of the United States. “This common-sense stamp program will provide funding for tigers and other endangered species without costing taxpayers a dime. We are grateful to Congressman Grimm for championing this important conservation measure." “We applaud Congress for their action in saving a truly worthy program,” said John Calvelli, Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) Executive Vice President of Public Affairs. “Wildlife conservation is not a partisan issue, as demonstrated by the bipartisan support for these efforts. In addition, the Congressional Budget Office has scored similar legislation as revenue-neutral, as the stamp raises funds at no net cost to the Federal government or taxpayers.” Calvelli added, “The stamp empowers the American public to show their support for wildlife conservation by simply mailing a letter, as proceeds from every stamp purchased goes directly to conservation efforts on the ground. I thank the Senate and the House for moving forward on this reauthorization, and I look forward to seeing the final version of the legislation enacted into law.” This stamp has been highly successful, with 4 million stamps sold in the first 41 days of issuance, and it is currently available at over 35,000 post offices around the country. This legislation costs zero tax dollars, while diverting desperately needed funding to some of the most highly endangered species throughout the world. The stamp also benefits our postal service by creating new revenue for the United States Postal Service (USPS) that can be used to create and save postal jobs in our local communities. Every Multinational Species Conservation Funds Semi-Postal Stamp that is collected and/or not used equals a 100% profit for USPS that would not be there without this stamp. Finally, the stamp promotes visitation to zoos and aquariums throughout the United States such as the Staten Island Zoo, the Bronx Zoo and the New York Aquarium resulting in increased tourism revenue to our local communities. Legislation to create the stamp was introduced in a previous Congress and was signed into law on September 30, 2010, mandating the stamp be available for two years. The Portman-Grimm bill extends the stamp for an additional four years. Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives and is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Zoo and Aquarium Caucus. The House of Representatives passed the Portman-Grimm bill by a voice vote on September 8, 2014. ###
08.07.2014	Staten Island, NY– Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) issued the following statement and sent the accompanying letter calling on New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio to deny permits for a proposed protest march across the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge on August 23, 2014: “Staten Island already bears the burden as the traffic and pothole capital of the country, not to mention having the most exorbitant toll in the nation. To close our only direct passage to the rest of the City on a summer travel weekend is a recipe for total disaster" Rep. Grimm said. "There's a reason the bridge has rarely been closed in its 50-year history; because the major disruption and safety risks are massive: our small businesses – already coping with the outrageous tolls - would bear an even greater financial burden, families would be severely impacted, and the Staten Island Expressway would be a parking lot. FDNY and EMT facilities in southern Brooklyn that serve Staten Island's north shore neighborhoods would be cut off in the event of an emergency, and that is unacceptable." With the Bayonne Bridge closed during the proposed march, the already heavily congested Goethals Bridge and Outerbridge Crossing would be the only way on or off Staten Island. The Verrazano’s annual closure for the New York City Marathon and Five Borough Bike Tour take place after several months of intense planning and emergency preparedness measures. "There's no question that a fair, unbiased review of the circumstances surrounding Mr. Garner's tragic death must go forward, but there is an appropriate time, place, and manner of holding a demonstration without wreaking total havoc on a community of almost half-a-million hardworking Staten Islanders." Rep. Grimm concluded, "The fact remains: the people of New York elected Bill de Blasio - not Al Sharpton - and it's time for the Mayor to stand up, show some true leadership, and deny these permits to close the Verrazano bridge.” See below for the text of the letter sent to Mayor de Blasio today: The Honorable Bill de Blasio Mayor, City of New York City Hall New York, NY 10007 Dear Mayor de Blasio: It has been reported that a protest march which would result in the total or partial closure of the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge is scheduled for Saturday, August 23rd at 1pm. My purpose in writing is to request that you deny the issuance of permits that would be needed for such an event to occur. Without question, I strongly support the right to peaceably assemble and speak out on matters of justice as each citizen sees fit. However, I object to this proposed shut-down of the Verrazano given the widespread implications it would have on residents of Staten Island and elsewhere who could face significant travel disruptions and diminished emergency services. As you well know, the Verrazano is Staten Island’s only land-based connection to the City and is rarely closed for non-emergency purposes, with the exception of the New York City Marathon and Five Borough Bike Tour, both of which are planned for months ahead of time. This march is scheduled to occur in just over two weeks. Relevant judicial rulings have consistently held that protests and demonstrations may be limited in terms of time, manner, and circumstance in order to preserve public safety and order, thus making the decision to deny these permits both legal and prudent. The bridge is a vexing traffic bottleneck with which Staten Islanders must regularly contend. To further burden and disrupt this vital thoroughfare for a protest march that could just as easily take place on many other parts of Staten Island would be a serious mistake, and I hope that you will use your authority as Mayor to ensure a march on the Verrazano Bridge is not permitted. Sincerely, MICHAEL G. GRIMM Member of Congress Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn, encompassing both sides of the Verrazano Bridge, in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
07.30.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – TODAY, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) issued the following statement hailing the House of Representatives’ passage of an extensive Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) reform bill (H.R. 3230 - The Veterans' Access to Care through Choice, Accountability, and Transparency Act) aimed at correcting the vast systemic failures that have left thousands of our nation’s veterans without adequate medical care: “I’m proud that the House of Representatives rose above partisan politics today and did what was right for the brave men and women who have served our great country,” Rep. Grimm said. “This reform bill will provide the resources, the restructuring, and most importantly the accountability to demand that the VA finally gives our veterans the care and dignity that they unquestionably deserve – it’s a black mark on our history as a nation, however, that our vets were put in such a deplorable position in the first place.” Yesterday, the Senate unanimously confirmed former U.S. Army officer and Procter & Gamble chief Robert McDonald as the next VA Secretary. “Continued vigilance and follow-through will be crucial…we simply cannot accept a single brave veteran falling through the cracks and waiting to die on a secret list.” Rep. Grimm concluded, “If the greatest, most exceptional nation in the world is to truly live up to that reputation, then we must demand nothing less for our veterans. I call on the Senate to waste no time in passing this bill before breaking for recess so that every veteran who has answered the call to serve knows that help is finally on the way.” H.R. 3230’s most significant reforms include: · Allowing any veteran enrolled in the VA health care system who cannot get an appointment at a VA hospital within 30 days to receive VA-covered medical care at certain non-VA facilities. · Augmenting the VA’s ability to demand accountability by: o Authorizing the VA to fire or demote Senior Executive Service (SES) employees and Title 38 SES equivalent employees for poor performance or misconduct. o Prohibiting SES employees from receiving pay, bonuses, and benefits during any appeal of disciplinary action. o Reducing funding for bonuses available to VA employees by $40 million each year through Fiscal Year (FY) 2024. · Establishing an independent assessment of VA medical care and establishing a Congressional Commission on Care to evaluate access to care throughout the VA health care system. · Increasing the VA’s capacity to provide timely care to veterans and address the backlog by: o Providing $5 billion to increase access to care through the hiring of physicians and other medical staff and by improving VA’s physical infrastructure. o Authorizing 27 major medical facility leases in 18 states and Puerto Rico. Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) is a Marine combat veteran of Operation Desert Storm and represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives. New York’s 11th Congressional District is home to a VA hospital in Ft. Hamilton, Brooklyn. The House of Representatives passed the VA reform bill, H.R. 3230, the Veterans' Access to Care through Choice, Accountability, and Transparency Act of 2014 on July 30, 2014, by a vote of 420 – 5. ###
07.30.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – TODAY, on the 49th anniversary of the enactment of Medicare, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) issued the following statement decrying Obamacare’s draconian cuts to Medicare and Medicare Advantage and renewing the call to reject policies like Obamacare that threaten the program’s solvency and sustainability. Recently, independent research reports concluded that over 31,000 Medicare Advantage recipients in Staten Island and Brooklyn will see a $4,173.97 reduction in their benefits from 2014 to 2015 (24.39%), the 7th largest cut out of all 435 Congressional Districts in the country: “Thousands of seniors in Staten Island and Brooklyn rely on Medicare for their basic health needs, which is why I have been a vocal opponent of Obamacare and its crippling $716 billion cut to Medicare” Rep. Grimm said. As out-of-pocket costs continue to rise in traditional Medicare, more and more seniors are choosing Medicare Advantage plans because they offer greater financial predictability and better benefits. Over 31,000 seniors in Staten Island and more in Brooklyn are enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan according to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ July 2014 report. In order to help fund Obamacare, seniors in Staten Island and Brooklyn will see a $4,173.97 reduction in their Medicare Advantage benefits from 2014 to 2015 (24.39%), the 7th largest cut out of all 435 Congressional Districts in the country. “This is not a responsible long-term solution, it’s just robbing Peter to pay Paul, and it’s beyond ridiculous to ask seniors who depend on Medicare to foot the bill for the bloated, tangled mess that is Obamacare.” State NY District 11 Quality and Risk- Adjusted Average Rate for 2015 $13013.47 Pre-ACA Baseline Risk- Adjusted Rate for 2015 $17187.34 Change from Pre-ACA to Post-ACA (dollars) -$4173.87 Change from Pre-ACA to Post-ACA (percent) -24.28% *“Medicare Advantage Cuts Felt in Every Congressional District” – July 2014 This news comes as Rep. Grimm’s office has assisted many Staten Islanders in recent months who are coping with disastrous, sometimes life-threatening disruptions to their medical care resulting from the implementation of Obamacare. Rep. Grimm, who has cosponsored legislation to provide support services for seniors, has consistently voted to repeal Obamacare and replace it with a comprehensive reform plan that would spare Americans from the devastating consequences of Obamacare. Rep. Grimm concluded, “If we want to ensure that essential programs like Medicare and Medicare Advantage remain available to seniors for another 49 years and beyond, then we have to put a stop to misguided laws like Obamacare that are driving them towards bankruptcy and extinction.” Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
07.29.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) sent a letter (included below) and issued the accompanying statement seeking answers and greater transparency from the de Blasio administration regarding its plans to redevelop Sandy-damaged properties acquired by the City through the Acquisition for Redevelopment Program (ARP): “We still have absolutely no idea what plans the City has in store for these properties and when they will make them known to the communities that will obviously be affected, especially the hard-hit neighborhoods along Staten Island’s shoreline” Rep. Grimm said. The Acquisition for Redevelopment Program was established with federal funds from the 2013 Sandy Relief Bill and allows the State to purchase private property from owners which the City may then redevelop rather than returning the land to nature. “The only reason we were able to strike a bipartisan deal and secure $60 billion for the Sandy Relief Bill was by guaranteeing that the funds would be used solely for disaster recovery, resiliency, and mitigation” Rep. Grimm continued. The Mayor’s announced plan to bring 200,000 units of affordable housing to the five boroughs, coupled with previous statements indicating a desire to use Sandy recovery resources to address so-called “greater wrongs” have led to concerns that the Mayor will take advantage of ARP to bring low-income housing development to Sandy-damaged neighborhoods in Brooklyn and Staten Island. Rep. Grimm concluded, “If the City breaks this promise and uses recovery resources to support low-income housing development in Sandy-ravaged neighborhoods, that will make it almost impossible to secure adequate funding for future storms and disasters. I only hope that the Mayor realizes this danger and understands that the people of Staten Island and Brooklyn have a right to know what his plans are for their neighborhoods.” Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives. See Below for Text of Letter Sent to Mayor de Blasio and City Officials Today: July 29, 2014 The Honorable Bill de Blasio Mayor, City of New York City Hall New York, NY 10007 Dear Mayor de Blasio: I write with regard to the City’s Acquisition for Redevelopment Program, which was created with federal funds to assist New York City residents impacted by Superstorm Sandy. As you will recall, this program was created essentially as a complement to the State’s Buy-Out program – while properties purchased through the State program are forever given back to nature, tracts acquired through the City program can be rebuilt upon. This is a sensible approach in that it provides more options to many Sandy-impacted homeowners who do not live in areas that are eligible for the State program but want the option of selling their property and using the proceeds to find a new home. An issue of growing interest and concern, however, is what precisely the City and your administration will be doing with properties obtained through the program. The Memorandum of Understanding makes it clear that while the acquisitions will be funded by New York State, the title of the acquired property will be transferred to New York City or a non-profit designated by the City within six months. It was recently reported that the City is seeking to sell property in Queens that is worth millions for $1, with the provision that the property would be re-zoned and the buyer build a below-market housing complex. This circumstance feeds serious concerns that the City will use property obtained in Staten Island through the Acquisition program to similarly advance your housing agenda, spurring development and population density which communities in Staten Island simply cannot accommodate. The placement of new, below-market housing that does not fit with the character and infrastructure of these coastline neighborhoods could fundamentally change and overwhelm these areas that are still trying to recover from Sandy’s devastating impact. I hope that you can provide assurances that property acquired through a Sandy recovery program will not be used to introduce new housing arrangements that exceed a neighborhood’s capacity and character. Your attention and response to this matter is most appreciated. Sincerely,Michael G. GrimmMember of Congress
07.26.2014	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) issued the following statement in response to New York City Council Speaker Melissa Mark-Viverito’s recent comments in support of New York City accepting and housing undocumented immigrants flooding across the U.S.-Mexico border: “The Speaker talks about our obligation to respond to a humanitarian crisis at the border, but what about the unresolved crisis right here in Staten Island and Brooklyn with countless families still struggling to get back in their homes 19 months after Sandy” Rep. Grimm said. "Where are our priorities? The City Council Speaker’s priorities are just as deluded as the President’s - if we're going to allocate resources shouldn’t we do so for those that have earned that obligation, like our veterans? Our nation’s heroes are coping with record-high homelessness not to mention failing to receive the basic healthcare they deserve. Before spending resources to house undocumented immigrants, doesn’t the City have a real obligation to help people like our veterans who risked life and limb for this country or the hardworking families ravaged by Sandy who want to be reunited back in their homes?” Rep. Grimm concluded, “Although it is heartbreaking what these children crossing the border are experiencing, if the City has the ability to house people in need then it should be used for the record amount of homeless veterans and displaced Sandy victims before anyone else.” Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
07.23.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) issued the following statement reacting to a recent research study indicating that Medicare Advantage recipients in his district (NY-11), including over 31,000 seniors living in Staten Island and Brooklyn, will see an unprecedented $4,173.97 reduction in their benefits from 2014 to 2015 (24.39%), the 7th largest cut out of all 435 Congressional Districts in the country. “Thanks to President Obama’s disastrous healthcare law, seniors in Staten Island and Brooklyn will see crippling cuts to the crucial benefits they rely on for their medical care” Rep. Grimm said. Overall, Obamacare cuts $716 billion from Medicare; which is headed for bankruptcy in as early as ten years. According to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ July 2014 report, over 31,000 seniors in Staten Island and Brooklyn are enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan. “This is not a responsible long-term solution, it’s just robbing Peter to pay Paul, and it’s beyond ridiculous to ask seniors who depend on Medicare to foot the bill for the bloated, tangled mess that is Obamacare.” State NY District 11 Quality and Risk- Adjusted Average Rate for 2015 $13013.47 Pre-ACA Baseline Risk- Adjusted Rate for 2015 $17187.34 Change from Pre-ACA to Post-ACA (dollars) -$4173.87 Change from Pre-ACA to Post-ACA (percent) -24.28% *“Medicare Advantage Cuts Felt in Every Congressional District” – July 2014 This study comes as Rep. Grimm’s office has assisted many Staten Islanders in recent months who are coping with disastrous, sometimes life-threatening disruptions to their medical care resulting from the implementation of Obamacare. Rep. Grimm, who has cosponsored legislation to provide support services for seniors, has consistently voted to repeal Obamacare and replace it with a comprehensive reform plan that would spare Americans from the devastating consequences of Obamacare. Rep. Grimm concluded, “The evidence is clear, the President and his liberal allies sold the American people a rotten bill of goods that is raising their premiums, slashing their benefits, dropping them from their health plans, and endangering access to their trusted doctors.” Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
07.15.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) addressed the U.S. House of Representatives to pay tribute to fallen FDNY Firefighter Lieutenant Gordon “Matt” Ambelas and to commemorate Ambelas’ incredible heroism in the Congressional Record. Lieutenant Ambelas, a 40 year-old Staten Island husband and father of two young girls, heroically gave his life while searching for victims during a Brooklyn fire on July 5, 2014. You may view Rep. Grimm’s tribute to Lieutenant Ambelas here. Transcript of Rep. Grimm’s Remarks U.S. House of Representatives July 15, 2013 *** Commemorating the Memory and Heroic Sacrifice of Staten Island Fireman Lieutenant Gordon “Matt” Ambelas “Mister Speaker, it is with a heavy heart, but also a swelling of pride, that I rise before this House today to honor the memory and the heroic sacrifice of one of the FDNY’s bravest; Lieutenant Gordon “Matt” Ambelas. Lieutenant Ambelas, a veteran Staten Island fireman with 14 years of distinguished service, tragically gave his life this past Fourth of July weekend. He was attempting to rescue victims trapped in a horrific blaze in Brooklyn. Lieutenant Ambelas, who leaves behind a devoted wife and 2 beautiful girls, is New York’s first firefighter to fall in the line of duty since 2012. And while a family and a community mourn the excruciating loss of one of their finest native sons - one of their most dedicated protectors - Lieutenant Ambelas is a testament to the uncommon courage and sacrifice at the very core of the entire FDNY family and the harrowing dangers they face in keeping America’s greatest city safe every day. Lieutenant Ambelas died after searching the 19th floor of a burning Brooklyn housing complex, determined to leave no innocent victim behind, as the flames spread rapidly from floor to floor. Undaunted by the danger that would’ve melted the courage of most any man, Matt faced it, undeterred, head on. So I join all of my constituents in Brooklyn and Staten Island, and all New Yorkers, in acknowledging the immense debt of gratitude we all owe to Matt and his brothers in the FDNY who put our safety above their own…day-in and day-out. While standing among those honoring Lieutenant Ambelas at his funeral on Staten Island last week, I was humbled by the valor – the incredible valor - of Matt’s actions. We watched as Matt’s brothers in uniform - especially the Beach Boys of Ladder 81 in Staten Island and the Hooper Street Gang of Ladder 119 in Brooklyn- paid their final respects to the fallen hero. Seeing first-hand the mixture of strength and despair on the faces…I saw Matt’s wife Nanette, and their beautiful daughters, Giovanna and Gabriella. This was a very stark reminder that not only do we owe an enormous debt of gratitude to fallen heroes like Matt, but also to the loving families that bear the immeasurable sacrifice right along with them. When our nation was viciously attacked on 9/11, 343 FDNY firefighters gave their lives. Since then, 18 more, including Matt, have fallen in the line of duty. Each loss, while a weight on our hearts, adds yet another angel to that storied brotherhood of heroes. I ask all of my colleagues to join me in the remembrance and commemoration of a true American hero in every sense of the word. May God bless Lieutenant Ambelas, may he bring comfort to his young family, may he protect all our brave FDNY firefighters, and may the noble sacrifice enshrined in Matt’s memory never be forgotten. And to you Nanette, please know that you, Gia, and Gabby, are in my thoughts and my prayers and that my heart is broken for your enormous loss.” Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
06.30.2014	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) issued the following statement after the bodies of 3 Israeli boys - Eyal Yifrach, Gilad Shaar, and Naphtali Freankel - were discovered near the village of Hebron in the West Bank on Monday. The boys went missing on June 12 with evidence pointing to Hamas terrorists as the culprits behind the kidnapping and murder. "I am shocked and saddened by the horrifying murder of these three innocent boys – Naphtali, Gilad, and Eyal - who were heinously cut down at the beginning of their young lives. Those responsible must be found and face justice so that terrorist groups like Hamas know what awaits those who target the innocent. We must send a clear message that the world will not tolerate this evil and that the right of the Israeli people to live without fear of violence and intimidation is sacred. My heartfelt prayers go out to the families of these boys, the Israeli people, and Jewish men and women throughout the world." Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
06.26.2014	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) sent a letter (attached) and issued the following statement calling on the de Blasio administration to provide specifics on the Mayor’s announced plan to provide water fee relief for Sandy survivors who have used little or no water in their storm-damaged homes. Even if a home uses no water during a billing period, homeowners are subject to a minimum charge from the City of $1.19 per day. Since this problem first became apparent, Rep. Grimm, along with other elected officials and affected Staten Island homeowners, have called on the City to waive the fees. “Ever since we discovered Sandy victims were getting slapped with these absurd water bills, I’ve been fighting to get the City to provide them with the relief they deserve. After getting nowhere with the Bloomberg administration I was initially optimistic when Mayor de Blasio pledged to address the problem, but it’s now been several months without a single update on any of the specifics.” Rep. Grimm concluded, “Countless Staten Islanders are still struggling to rebuild their lives after Sandy and they simply can’t afford any more delay, which is why I’m hoping the Mayor will respond to my request to provide an update as soon as possible.” Rep. Grimm’s calls were echoed by Staten Island residents and Sandy recovery advocates as well. “When I heard that Mayor de Blasio wanted to help people like me and so many others who are still out of their homes and still getting charged by the City for water, I was ecstatic,” said Tommy Cunsolo, founder of Sandy recovery non-profit the Staten Island Alliance. “The Staten Island Alliance is ready to do work with City officials in helping to make this proposal a reality.” Rep. Grimm’s letter to the Mayor on Thursday reiterated the Congressman’s support for the Mayor’s water bill relief plan and inquired as to what steps were needed to bring it to fruition. Specifically, Rep. Grimm asked for clarity on the important question of whether continued collaboration between the City, the Governor, and the State Legislature would be necessary. “I strongly support your proposal. What I am looking for now is information about what is being done, and how I, and other Staten Island officials, can assist you…” Rep. Grimm said in the letter. Rep. Grimm represents all of Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives. Rep. Grimm has been a consistent and vocal advocate for the need to provide water bill relief for Sandy victims whose homes were destroyed or rendered uninhabitable by Superstorm Sandy. See the letter below sent to Mayor de Blasio: June 26, 2014 The Honorable Bill de Blasio Mayor, City of New York City Hall New York, NY 10007 Dear Mayor de Blasio: Back in April, you announced an important proposal to address the City’s deplorable policy of charging residents for water usage in their vacant, Sandy-damaged homes. My purpose in writing is to obtain a progress report. Your “One City, Rebuilding Together” report released in April included a number of important new proposals aimed at providing financial relief support to Sandy-impacted homeowners. The proposal to offer “relief from city water bills for vacant homes” resonated in particular with me given my extensive efforts, going back to early last year, to waive the daily fees Sandy victims were being charged by the City for water they were not using. As you know, homeowners knocked out of their homes by Sandy are still charged a minimum of $1.19 a day by the City for water services. I strongly support your proposal. What I am looking for now is information about what is being done, and how I, and other Staten Island officials, can assist you in making this proposal a reality. When I urged the previous Administration to take action on this matter, I was regularly told that the City was not able to waive these fees, as action by the State Legislature and Governor was necessary for these fees to be waived. I would like to know if this sort of collaboration with State officials is underway, and if not, what other course of action is being taken to achieve our shared goal. I know many residents who are still out of their homes and are still being charged by the City will appreciate any signs of progress in the effort to relieve them of this absurd City fee. Therefore, I appreciate any information you can provide on this matter. Sincerely, Michael G. Grimm Member of Congress ###
06.25.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) took to the floor of the House of Representatives to issue an urgent call to action against the growing bullying epidemic in New York City schools, urging his colleagues to support anti-bullying measures and demanding accountability from those charged with reporting and addressing instances of harassment in public schools. The New York Post and the Staten Island Advance have both covered troubling instances of bullying in recent weeks, which highlight the tragic consequences of this growing problem: Please see below for a transcript of Rep. Grimm’s remarks and click here to view video of his floor speech on the House floor today: “Madam Speaker, I rise unfortunately today to call attention to a growing epidemic that is plaguing families across our country, and particularly in my district in Staten Island and Brooklyn. This week, the New York Post and the Staten Island Advance mentioned the story of an 11-year-old student, Cyon Williams. Cyon’s struggle is with unaddressed bullying which drove him to contemplate violence and suicide. Think about that…an 11-year-old boy contemplating violence and suicide. Just a few weeks ago, I met with this bright and very impressive young man along with his mother at their home. I have to tell you it was an absolutely heartbreaking story to see this very mild-mannered, very nice, polite, respectful young man tell me a heartbreaking story of how he’s terrified to go to school every day, but yet he’s yearning to read and to learn. Unfortunately Madam Speaker, Cyon is far from alone. There’s an example of a tragic suicide of a 15-year-old Tottenville student back in 2012, and that suicide proves all too well that this epidemic is continuing. In her memory, and the memory of countless innocent children victimized by bullying – it’s time that we all say enough is enough. We must demand accountability from those charged with addressing bullying in our schools. Especially in New York City, where 1 in 5 public school students are victimized by abusive peers. I’m calling on all of my colleagues to join me in cosponsoring H.R. 1199, the Safe Schools Improvement Act. This would require all public schools to establish policies to combat bullying. We owe it to all of our young adults, and to demand safe learning environments where they can grow and develop in a peaceful environment. Thank you.” Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives. The Congressman has supported anti-bullying legislation in the House, including H.R. 1199, the Safe Schools Improvement Act which requires public schools to establish policies that prevent and prohibit severe conduct, including bullying and harassment, as well as H.R. 2734, the Garrett Lee Smith Memorial Reauthorization which reauthorizes funding to states (including New York) and colleges to reduce youth suicide and expand drug abuse outreach on college campuses. ###
06.25.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm’s (R,C,I-NY) legislation H.R. 634, the Business Risk Mitigation and Price Stabilization Act, passed as part of a larger financial services package, H.R. 4413, the Customer Protection and End User Relief Act. Rep. Grimm’s bipartisan bill clarifies that true derivatives end-users are exempt from the margin requirements applied by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to many derivatives contracts. This exemption will allow companies to continue to use derivatives to maintain low and stable prices for consumers and will free up capital that can be used to create jobs and keep American companies competitive: "The purpose of this bill is to remove barriers to business growth that have been imposed by over-reaching and burdensome regulations," said Rep. Grimm. "This legislation affects every day Americans throughout Staten Island, Brooklyn, and the entire country. One example is Hershey’s hedging the price of cocoa to keep chocolate prices stable, whether for candy bars in stores or larger amounts for local restaurants. Another example would be auto companies like General Motors (GM), which hedge the price of steel to prevent great fluctuations in the cost of automobiles.” Rep. Grimm concluded, “The cost savings for these companies allows them to expand and create real jobs for those in the middle and working class who desperately need them." H.R. 4413, which included Rep. Grimm’s bill H.R. 634, passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 265-144. Rep. Grimm’s pro-jobs legislation previously passed the House in the current 113th Congress on June 12, 2013 by a vote of 411-12, and in the 112th Congress on March 26, 2012 with a vote of 370-24. ###
06.19.2014	NEW YORK, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) and State Senator Martin J. Golden (R, C, I-Brooklyn) sent the attached letter to New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio urging the City to immediately crack down on the growing problem of illegal home conversions in several neighborhoods in southern Brooklyn - especially Bay Ridge and Dyker Heights - and also issued the accompanying joint statement: “I hope that the Mayor will take a hard look and work with us on this major problem, which is especially concerning since his City housing plan specifically mentions new up-zoning as a priority” Rep. Grimm said. “For generations, neighborhoods in southeast Brooklyn like Bay Ridge and Dyker Heights have resisted overdevelopment to preserve that signature character and quality of life that make them so great. Unfortunately, the latest culprit is homeowners secretly converting one and two family homes into illegal multi-occupancy residences that are dangerous and completely out of character with the community.” Senator Marty Golden added "The illegal conversions of one and two family homes into multiple dwellings and SRO's is plaguing our community and endangering residents. We must get a handle on this situation so to address one of the greatest challenges to our present day quality of life." The letter (attached) notes that the rampant illegal conversions are transforming one to two-family homes into multiple dwellings and virtual single-room-occupancies (SRO) that are several times what is safe and permissible under current building codes and zoning regulations, resulting in residences that are unsafe and frequently in disrepair. The letter concludes with Rep. Grimm and Senator Golden requesting a formal meeting with all City Commissioners with jurisdiction, the Mayor’s office, and local elected officials to develop a plan to immediately and comprehensively address the problem that has residents in these neighborhoods extremely concerned. Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives. State Senator Martin J. Golden represents New York’s 22nd Senate District in the New York State Senate. ###
06.18.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) re-joined the cast of “Will on the Hill”, an annual event hosted by the Shakespeare Theatre Company of Washington, DC, for their original production of “Lend Me Your Ears” (Plot Summary Below). Proceeds from the production go to benefit local theater, art, and humanities programs - serving over 23,000 students and teachers with free arts programs: “I’m proud to continue to be a strong advocate for arts and humanities funding, especially those that support youth programs and museums” said Rep. Grimm, who was honored earlier this year by the American Alliance of Museums for supporting federal funding for major arts programs like the National Endowment for the Arts, National Endowment for the Humanities, and the Institute of Museum and Library Services, which support cultural organizations like the Staten Island Museum. “It was such a pleasure to join my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support such a great cause. It’s coming together in light-hearted events like this that help us work through our differences and deliver real results for our constituents.” Rep. Grimm took the opportunity to also highlight the phenomenal work of Staten Island’s own scholastic theater programs: “This year’s rendition of Willy Wonka by the talented boys and girls at P.S. 5 in Huguenot was nothing less than spectacular! Seeing the passion and creativity these kids put into their performance demonstrates why it’s so crucial to support these fundraising efforts for the arts and why I will continue to be a vocal advocate for these terrific programs.” "Will on the Hill" 2014 Ensemble Cast Rep. Grimm played the part of “Rival Candidate One” alongside Reps. Carolyn Maloney (NY-12) (“Rival Candidate Two”) and Rep. Kevin Yoder (KS-03) (“Rival Candidate Three”) Rep. Grimm with students from P.S. 5 on Staten Island on June 17, 2014 Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
06.17.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) issued the following statement strongly condemning the kidnapping of 3 Israeli youths - Eyal Yifrah, Gilad Shaer, and Naftali Frenkel – in the West Bank last week and calling for the victims’ safe return and for those responsible to be brought to justice: “My heart goes out to the families of the three young Jewish boys kidnapped in the West Bank last week and I pray for their immediate release and safe return to their homes…especially 16 year old Naftali Frenkel, a U.S. citizen with broad family ties in Brooklyn” Rep. Grimm said. “I hope that all of my colleagues will join me in offering the Israeli government our strong support in the rescue of these young men and also reiterate our firm commitment to Israel’s right to defend its people from this kind of condemnable terrorism and intimidation.” “With so many of Naftali’s relatives in Brooklyn and countless members of the Jewish community across the nation so distraught over this abduction, this tragedy goes to show that the United States cannot throw up its hands and abandon our allies. The consequences of the President’s weak leadership on the world stage are clearly being felt right here at home, and extremists from Iraq, to Syria, to the West Bank are gaining ground at the expense of the innocent.” Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
06.12.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) issued the following statement voicing concern after attending a meeting between the New York City Congressional Delegation and Alicia Glen, the Deputy Mayor for Housing and Economic Development: “I’m extremely concerned with the Mayor’s plan to revisit up-zoning throughout the City, which could allow for high-density projects like new low-income and affordable housing developments to pop up throughout Staten Island and Brooklyn” Rep. Grimm said. “Staten Island and southern Brooklyn fought for years to resist overdevelopment and preserve the quality of life in their neighborhoods. Opening the floodgates for new massive housing developments would be disastrous for Staten Island and southern Brooklyn considering our already major traffic problems and lack of infrastructure to handle the increased density.” Rep. Grimm and other members of the New York City Congressional Delegation met with Deputy Mayor Glen this afternoon to discuss Mayor de Blasio's recently announced comprehensive affordable housing plan, “Housing New York, a Five-Borough, Ten-Year Plan.” “I applaud Deputy Mayor Glen for continuing to work closely with us and local elected officials, and I certainly support aspects of the plan that would expand affordable senior housing – allowing seniors to remain in their longtime neighborhoods – and increasing low-income housing in areas like Queens, the Bronx, and other parts of the City that can support the increased density.” “Nonetheless, I joined with a few of my colleagues in stressing the importance of keeping neighborhoods consistent with their current character. For example, if an area consists primarily of single family homes but includes a large municipal parking lot, that lot should not be up-zoned for low-income, affordable, or luxury condo complexes as doing so would drastically change the character of the community and potentially see current property values plummet. Before taking on any new construction projects, I would strongly urge the Mayor’s team to ensure that all existing NYCHA apartments are safe and well-maintained. They should also take into account how our local builders are already meeting much of Staten Island’s need for affordable housing in a way that respects current zoning restrictions and Staten Island’s unique challenges, such as the lack of a public hospital.” Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
06.09.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) issued the following statement strongly opposing a proposal in the U.S. House of Representatives to reduce and effectively eliminate the U.S. Postal Service’s Saturday mail delivery as a cost-saving measure to fund the U.S. Highway Trust Fund at previous levels for one year: “While I absolutely support robust funding for the Highway Trust Fund, robbing Peter to pay Paul is an irresponsible and ineffective way to do so.” Rep. Grimm said. “Aggressively reducing Saturday mail delivery could initially cut as many as 30,000 jobs in a time of major unemployment and drastically downsize an essential taxpayer service.” Rep. Grimm continued, “I hope that my colleagues will join me in scrapping this ill-advised ‘quick fix’ that will cost tens-of-thousands of jobs, including countless postal employees in Brooklyn and Staten Island, without any lasting benefit to the USPS, the taxpayers, or our deficit problem.” The proposal which is expected to be shortly introduced in the House in the coming weeks, would downsize Saturday mail delivery by eliminating First-Class letters, Periodicals, and Standard Mail at a cost saving of $2 billion dollars annually which would then be used to fund the U.S. Highway Trust Fund at previous levels through May 2015. Essentially, the proposal would eliminate a longtime mail delivery service to provide a single year of full funding for the U.S. Highway Trust Fund. “The New York State Association of Letter Carriers applauds Representative Michael Grimm, for taking a stance that protects the working families and small businesses in his Congressional District” said George T. Mangold, President of the New York State Association of Letter Carriers. “Rather than approve a temporary, job killing proposal that would begin to dismantle the USPS, the Congressman has chosen the correct position on this legislation.” Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
06.02.2014	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) issued the following statement applauding the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)’s recent announcement of $60 million for new storm and wave mitigation projects through the department’s Rebuild by Design program for Staten Island’s vulnerable coastline: “I am extremely pleased and excited that HUD’s Rebuild by Design program will be funding this new flood protection measure for the East Shore areas of Staten Island, starting in Tottenville,” Rep. Grimm said. “As Sandy showed us all too well, this area is uniquely vulnerable to disastrous flooding and storm surge damage --- when completed, these new living breakwaters will weaken the intensity of incoming waves and thus significantly mitigate the danger to nearby residents. Coupling this terrific development with my flood insurance reform bill, we’re successfully ensuring that Staten Island’s coastal neighborhoods remain safe and affordable places to live.” Rep. Grimm continued, “While much remains to be done in protecting the full stretch of Staten Island’s coastline, this is a big step forward and will help give South Shore residents the peace of mind they deserve. I want to thank HUD Secretary Donovan for his efforts in making this project a reality as well as Governor Cuomo and NY Rising for their leadership and collaboration with designers to ensure that these storm mitigation and infrastructure projects are a part of an integrated resiliency plan for Staten Island. This is exactly the type of mitigation project Congress intended and I fought so hard for in passing the Sandy Relief bill.” Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) represents all of Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives, a district that was one of the most heavily impacted by Superstorm Sandy, particularly along the eastern and southern coastline of Staten Island. Rep. Grimm has been one of the most vocal advocates in recent months calling on HUD to prioritize available disaster relief and storm mitigation funding for Sandy affected areas like Staten Island and Brooklyn. HUD’s proposed project for Staten Island incorporates protective breakwaters and interior tidal flats that can dissipate wave energy and slow water, while rebuilding sustainable oyster populations within the ecosystem. The multifaceted project proposes wave attenuation, habitat restoration, water quality improvements, in addition to educational opportunities as well as public access and recreational opportunities. ###
06.01.2014	STATEN ISLAND, NY– Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) issued the following statement regarding the Obama Administration's release of 5 senior Taliban terrorists in exchange for the return of Army Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl: "I join with all Americans in celebrating the return of Sgt. Bergdahl to his friends and family after 5 years languishing under Taliban captivity." Rep. Grimm said. "At the same time, the release of 5 senior Taliban commanders in exchange for Sgt. Bergdahl's return opens the door to a whole host of new perils to our service men and women abroad." Rep. Grimm continued, "The President's dangerous policy shift on negotiating with terrorists basically sends the message that whenever a terrorist group wants to extract concessions from the U.S., all they need to do is kidnap an American." Rep. Grimm went on to say, "Without a doubt, the President should have consulted with Congress as the voice of the American people so that potential alternatives could have been considered before embarking on such a drastic policy shift." "In the coming weeks and months ahead, I will join my colleagues in Congress in closely monitoring the implications of this decision for our national security as well as our men and women in uniform, particularly the 10,000 Americans who will remain in Afghanistan after 2014." Rep. Grimm concluded, "Sadly, the unilateral release of these 5 terrorists brings us just another step closer to becoming a paper tiger in the eyes of the world by emboldening our enemies and portraying our nation as weak and vulnerable." Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives and is a Marine combat veteran of Operation Desert Storm.
05.29.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) issued the following statement applauding yesterday’s passage of a bipartisan amendment he co-sponsored to restore the crippling 61% cut to the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Grant Program in the FY15 Commerce, Science, Justice (CJS) Appropriations bill. The COPS Hiring Grant Program is a crucial federal grant program that leverages state and local funding to hire or rehire police officers, while also promoting the hiring of our military veterans. “At a time when law enforcement agencies across the country, particularly the brave men and women in blue of the NYPD, are putting their lives on the line each and every day against a worsening prescription drug abuse epidemic and countless daily perils, the last thing we should do is slash a crucial program that promotes safe streets and top-notch community policing” Rep. Grimm said. Speaking for his amendment on the House floor last night, Rep. Grimm echoed his strong support for adequate law enforcement resources nationwide, “The reality is that our local and State budgets are also being reduced, and this 60-plus percent reduction to Federal COPS funding would exacerbate the many dangers police officers face on a daily basis because of low staffing levels.” Rep. Grimm also praised law enforcement officers, particularly NYPD, for their role in tackling the nationwide prescription drug abuse epidemic which has been especially hard hitting in Staten Island and Brooklyn and commended the COPS program for incentivizing the hiring of our military veterans as we face continued high rates of veteran unemployment. “The COPS program helps our courageous vets find good jobs and a stable livelihood by giving additional consideration to agencies that commit to hiring military vets, and I’m proud to say that as of 2013, 336 veterans have been hired with this funding. Not to mention, as the NYPD and grassroots community organizations on Staten Island are on the front lines against a devastating prescription drug abuse epidemic, I am committed to doing everything in my power to promote a strong, well-equipped police force that has the tools and resources it needs to protect our community.” Rep. Grimm’s bipartisan amendment to the CJS appropriations bill passed the House of Representatives last night, Wednesday May 28, 2014, by a voice vote and restores $110 million to the COPS Hiring Program account, bringing it up to the FY 2014 level. The amendment was endorsed by endorsed by: National Association of Police Organizations, International Association of Chiefs of Police, and Sergeants Benevolent Association Read Rep. Grimm’s full floor speech in support of the amendment here. Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) represents Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives. Rep. Grimm has consistently supported the efforts of police and law enforcement agencies nationwide, and offered a similar amendment last Congress to preserve full funding for the COPS program in FY13. ###
05.29.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) stood with fellow Members and House Leadership at a press conference in the U.S. Capitol calling on the Senate to immediately pass the Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act of 2014, which the House passed last week. The bill would give the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) much greater freedom to hold personnel accountable and expediently replace officials who are failing to provide veterans with the competent and responsive service they are entitled to: “There is no reward the government could ever offer that would even come close to adequately repaying our veterans for their brave service on the battlefield.” Rep. Grimm said. “But at the very least, the government should be able to offer our wounded warriors the high quality health care and medical services that they more than deserve.” This afternoon, Rep. Grimm stood with House Veterans Affairs’ Committee Chairman Jeff Miller (FL-01), GOP Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (VA-07), as well as representatives from the American Legion, AMVETS, the Concerned Veterans for America, and the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America in calling on the Senate to stop delaying and immediately pass the Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act of 2014. “We hope that this bill will empower Congress and the VA to hold its employees accountable and finally reform the now infamous negligence that has left so many veterans nationwide without the dignity and care that their courageous service entitles them to.” Rep. Grimm concluded, “I make this call not as a Member of Congress, but as a proud member of the American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), and the Marine Corps League, and hope that my colleagues in the Senate will put politics and party allegiance aside and do what is right for this country’s dedicated service men and women.” Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) is a Marine combat veteran of Operation Desert Storm. The Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act of 2014 passed the House of Representatives with a strong bipartisan vote of 390-33 on May 22, 2014. ###
05.24.2014	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) issued the following statement calling for a boycott of U.S. tourist travel to Mexico until Mexican officials release unjustly detained U.S. Marine Sgt. Andrew Tahmooressi. Sgt. Tahmooressi was arrested and imprisoned by Mexican officials on March 31, 2014, after making an unintentional wrong turn across the U.S.-Mexican border where he was accused of illegal weapons trafficking by Mexican authorities despite having only legally registered (in the U.S.) and properly stowed weapons in his vehicle: “As our nation honors the heroic sacrifices of our brave service men and women this Memorial Day, we can't forget about one of our own who will be sitting behind bars in a Mexican prison far away from his friends and family and the bright lights of New York City during Fleet Week." Rep. Grimm said. "Simply put, until Sgt. Tahmooressi is afforded the honor and respect he deserves as a U.S. Marine and is released from this ridiculous detention, no American should be living-it-up in Mexico and rewarding the Mexican government with their dollars while one of our own is in trouble." "Sgt. Tahmooressi put his life on the line in defense of our country after two tours of active duty in Afghanistan and he deserves better than to be locked up like a common criminal just for making an honest wrong turn." Rep. Grimm continued. "His detention is especially intolerable when you take into account that nearly 2/3 of all travelers in Mexico's multi-billion dollar tourism industry come from the U.S. and tens of billions of our tax dollars and countless American counter-narcotic agents contribute to Mexico's war on drug cartels every year." Rep. Grimm concluded, "It's unacceptable, and it would be a shame if we didn't stand up for ourselves as a nation and for one of our brave men in uniform." Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) is a Marine combat veteran of Operation Desert Storm. ###
05.23.2014	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) issued the following statement regarding today’s reports in the press that the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) will allocate approximately $994 million to NYC and $600 million to New York State in the third tranche of community development block grant (CDBG-DR) disaster recovery funding for the unmet need in its Sandy recovery and housing relief efforts: “Today’s news brings a sigh of relief and renewed hope for the hundreds of families in Staten Island and Brooklyn who have struggled to rebuild their homes and their lives after Sandy.” Rep. Grimm said. “After countless meetings, letters, and calls to HUD, I’m thrilled that the department is expected to keep its promise that no New Yorker would be left out in the cold and will soon announce $994 million for New York City Sandy recovery on top of the $600 million for the state’s New York Rising programs.” “Based on the allocation of almost a billion dollars for the City, if the Mayor’s office allocates this funding correctly and works closely with the state, which has already agreed to fund the re-acquisition program, then the City should be able to fund all unmet housing needs as well as a robust small business grant program. These grant programs would be particularly beneficial to the North Shore and beach areas of Staten Island which were completely devastated by Sandy.” Today’s reports on HUD’s imminent allocation comes a day after Rep. Grimm sent a letter (attached) to Secretary Donovan once again urging him to reject diverting a large portion of the remaining CDBG-DR funds to a national resiliency competition and to come to a decision on the third tranche before departing the agency to accept the President’s nomination as the new Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). “I’m glad that by all accounts the Secretary will heed my calls on behalf of the people I represent to preserve these funds for New York’s Sandy victims rather than a national resiliency competition, and that this will be settled before he departs for OMB.” Rep. Grimm concluded. ###
04.15.2014	STATEN ISLAND, NY – TODAY, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C,I-NY) issued the following statement praising FEMA’s announcement that the reforms in his bill to repeal catastrophic flood insurance rate increases will begin taking effect starting May 1, 2014: “After pressuring FEMA to cut through the red tape, I’m grateful that the agency wasted no time in implementing the parts of my bill that undo the most catastrophic rate increases facing homeowners” Rep. Grimm said. As FEMA announced, effective May 1, 2014, the NFIP Direct Servicing Agent and Write Your Own companies will begin to adjust rates for all new applications for eligible properties by using the rate tables issued effective October 1, 2013. The use of the October 2013 rate tables are an interim step while FEMA develops new rate tables and guidance to process and issue refunds for policyholders who were charged full-risk premiums under Biggert Waters and are now eligible for the lower rate. “That is exactly why I fought so hard to ensure that the bill was retroactive” Rep. Grimm added. Early signs of the devastating consequences of Biggert-Waters came when real estate closings across the country were being stopped at the table once buyers saw the "sticker-shock" of their new flood insurance policy. Beginning May 1st, insurance rates for flood-prone residents and home buyers will start to stabilize, preventing a catastrophic housing market crisis. Rep. Grimm concluded, “I was proud to deliver these real results for the hard-working families on Staten Island and Brooklyn, who can now enjoy the freedom and security to keep, rebuild, or sell their home without having to worry about crippling flood insurance payments. I look forward to working with FEMA to speed up the next phase of relief by providing refunds to those who were forced to pay the full-risk rates before Congress passed my reform bill this past March.” The President signed Rep. Michael G. Grimm’s (NY-11) flood insurance reform bill, H.R. 3370, the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2014 on March 21, 2014. This stage of implementation affects properties that are pre-FIRM (built before 1983 in New York City) that were subject to the most immediate and draconian increases under the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012. These pre-FIRM properties are: 1) Sold to a new owner after July 6 2012 2) Purchased a new policy after July 6, 2012 3) Had a policy lapse after October 4, 2012 and subsequently reinstated coverage. Starting on October 1, 2013 these policy types had all subsidies removed and were subjected to immediate full risk rates. These increase were the cause of the sky rocketing premiums attributed to Biggert-Waters. As of May 1, 2014 FEMA is requiring policy renewals and newly purchased properties to revert to the subsidized rates that were in effect prior to October 1, 2013. Refunds for full risk rates already paid on prior policies will still take time to be processed. ###
04.07.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement highlighting his ongoing efforts to secure funds for Staten Island Ferry resiliency and modernization. In light of recent news concerning the fleet’s potential safety vulnerabilities, Rep. Grimm also announced his request for a formal briefing with U.S. Coast Guard representatives to review the agency’s ferry certification process: After Superstorm Sandy significantly damaged electrical equipment and terminal infrastructure at the St. George and Whitehall terminals requiring extensive repairs, Rep. Grimm successfully fought to ensure that the Sandy Relief bill passed by Congress last year included $1.3 billion dollars to shore up identified vulnerabilities in the ferry transit system. Rep. Grimm has been strongly advocating for and urging the U.S. Department of Transportation to support the NYC DOT’s request for a $265 million Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Resiliency Grant to safeguard and upgrade the ferry system. “Considering the immense damage Sandy wrought on the ferry system’s electrical infrastructure on top of the intense wear-and-tear endured by the vessels, I’ve consistently fought to ensure that the NYC DOT has the resources necessary to keep these boats safe for the thousands of my constituents who use the SI ferry each and every day.” Rep. Grimm said. “Clearly more work needs to be done to verify that these funds are being used efficiently to actually addresses the ferry system’s most urgent needs.” Rep. Grimm continued. “When it comes to our public transportation system, safety must always be our top priority. That’s why I requested a formal meeting today with the U.S. Coast Guard to review the ferry’s certification process and consider any changes that should be made to ensure the continued safety of the passengers and crew on board.” Rep. Grimm represents all of Staten Island and parts of southern Brooklyn in the U.S. House of Representatives, with thousands of his constituents utilizing Staten Island Ferry services each and every day. Rep. Grimm is also the Co-Chair of the Congressional Public Transportation Caucus, a bipartisan coalition of members dedicated to highlighting and supporting the issues, challenges, and needs of mass transit agencies and the passengers they serve. ###
03.25.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – TODAY, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-SI/Brooklyn) issued the following statement offering his best wishes to the U.S.’s Greek and Cypriot allies and the entire Greek-American community on the occasion of Greek Independence Day: “I’m proud to stand today with the thousands of Greek and Cypriot Americans that I’m honored to represent and join them in celebrating the 193rd anniversary of Greece’s independence.” Rep. Grimm said. “As an active member of the Congressional Caucus on Hellenic Affairs, I have worked with representatives on both sides of the aisle to foster the firm bond that our government shares with the Greek-American community and the embassies of Greece and Cyprus.” “In addition to being a dedicated political and economic ally on the world stage, centuries of hard working immigrants from Greece and their descendants have sewn deep ethnic, cultural, and religious roots that have enriched the United States,” Rep. Grimm went on to say. “In my district alone, I have seen first-hand how Greek-American communities truly embody the American Dream, with countless impoverished immigrants coming up from nothing, building strong families, and achieving untold success in fields from Hollywood, to politics and government, to Fortune 500 businesses. This is all while preserving their proud heritage and Greek Orthodox traditions at treasured parishes like Holy Trinity - St. Nicholas Church in Bulls Head, Staten Island and the Holy Cross Greek Orthodox Church in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn.” “Let us never forget that Greece’s ages-long struggle for independence and resistance against tyranny and colonization resonates with our own country’s similar crusade for freedom and self-determination against oppression.” Rep. Grimm concluded, “I am truly honored to do everything I can to ensure that the 193 years of cooperation and fellowship between our great nations continues to grow and deepen for generations to come.” Rep. Michael G. Grimm (NY-11) represents a large population of Greek and Cypriot Americans residing in Staten Island and Brooklyn and is a Member of the Congressional Caucus on Hellenic Affairs ###
03.24.2014	STATEN ISLAND, NY – TODAY, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY), issued the following statement reacting to President Obama signing his flood insurance reform bill, H.R. 3370, the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2014 into law: “It is a spectacular feeling knowing that I was able to deliver such real, tangible results for the hard-working families of Staten Island, Brooklyn, and this great country” Rep. Grimm said. “To lead this effort during such a divided Congress and pass a truly bi-partisan, landmark piece of legislation makes me especially proud because it fully demonstrates why I ran for office: to actually get things done and improve the quality of life for the community and middle-class Americans. This new law does just that." Rep. Grimm continued, “It’s a victory that inspires hope: hope for the U.S. Congress, so frequently hand-cuffed by partisan gridlock; hope for the American people, doubtful of their representatives' ability to address their needs; and hope for the millions of Americans in flood-prone areas who will be spared from mass foreclosures and premium hikes thanks to this bill.” "Having been on the ground from the very night Superstorm Sandy hit, going from destroyed home to destroyed home and regularly meeting with the victims has made me realize just how profoundly important it is for my colleagues and I to deliver results, to fix what is broken, and to put our constituents' needs first regardless of partisan politics." Rep. Grimm went on to say, "Having this bill signed into law by the President sets an example and a standard that I will work tirelessly to recreate on other important issues, because the hard-working taxpayers deserve nothing less." “I am thankful to my colleagues for working together to make this happen, to my constituents who sent me to Congress to fight for them, and to the countless Sandy victims who never lost hope.” Rep. Grimm concluded, “I join with them in celebrating this unforgettable day, and affirming that this is the rule - not the exception - for how Congress should conduct itself in truly representing the best interest of the American people.” President Obama signed Rep. Michael G. Grimm’s (NY-11) flood insurance reform bill, H.R. 3370, the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2014 on March 21, 2014. The House of Representatives passed the bill by a vote of 306-91 on March 4, 2014 followed by the U.S. Senate which passed it on March 13, 2014 by a vote of 72-22. ###
03.17.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – On March 13, 2014, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY), issued the following statement applauding the Senate for passing his flood insurance reform bill, H.R. 3370, the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2014, “as is”: “After months of hard work, affordable flood insurance for millions of Americans, especially the Sandy-ravaged families in Staten Island and Brooklyn, is finally just a pen-stroke away.” Rep. Grimm said. “I commend the Senate for heeding our calls, putting politics aside, and delivering this essential relief for the people we represent.” “For both houses of Congress, controlled by opposing parties, to pass an identical bill on such an important issue as flood insurance without amendments is almost unheard of in today’s political climate.” Rep. Grimm continued, “That is a clear testament of the strength of this reform and just how far it will go in keeping families in their homes and businesses open at an affordable rate for generations to come.” Rep. Grimm went on to say, “I am proud to be the author of this rare bipartisan achievement, and to see one of Congress’ most substantial bills in recent memory go to benefit constituents in my district probably more than any other in the nation.” Rep. Grimm concluded, “I hope that this major accomplishment will set the tone for Congress to continue to come together and tackle the many serious challenges facing our great country. The hard-working families we represent deserve nothing less.” The Senate passed Rep. Grimm’s flood insurance reform bill, H.R. 3370, by a vote of 72 –22 on March 13, 2014. It now goes to the President’s desk to be signed into law. ###
03.04.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – TODAY, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY), issued the following statement reacting to the House of Representatives’ passage of his flood insurance reform bill, H.R. 3370, the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act of 2014: “I join with my colleagues in the House and Senate, Republican and Democrat in celebrating this rare moment of harmony in a Congress increasingly defined by bitterness and resentment.” Rep. Grimm said. “It’s hard to find the words to express how incredibly proud I am to have sponsored this tremendous victory for my constituents as well as one of Congress’ most consequential bipartisan achievements in recent years.” Rep. Grimm continued, “The passage of this bill represents a major, uplifting milestone in our city’s long road to recovery since Superstorm Sandy. These hard-fought reforms will keep hardworking families in their homes, businesses open, and restore vitality to our fragile housing market. Staten Island and Brooklyn, and countless communities across the country, will remain affordable places to live, work, and raise a family.” “If we can find common ground on flood insurance reform, imagine what we can do to tackle other challenges like our skyrocketing national debt and unemployment epidemic.” Rep. Grimm went on to say. “At the end of the day, this vote proves that Members of Congress can truly champion the interests of the people, and I thank my colleagues, especially Representatives Maxine Waters, Bill Cassidy, Gregory Meeks, Frank Lobiondo and Majority Leader Eric Cantor for their constant humility and dedication throughout this process.” Rep. Grimm concluded, “I hope that the passage of H.R. 3370 will serve as an example for future legislators about the good that we can provide for those we represent when we put people over politics. Without a doubt, I will always remember my vote tonight as one of the proudest moments of my life, and hold it up as a constant reminder that through true leadership, common ground is never beyond our reach.” The House of Representatives passed H.R. 3370 under a suspension of the rules at 6:45 PM on Tuesday, March 4th, 2014, by a vote of 306 - 91 ###
02.12.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY), announced that House leadership has cleared the way for a vote on an amended version of his flood insurance reform legislation: In announcing the House’s pending vote on the Congressman’s legislation, Majority Leader Eric Cantor (VA-7) praised the Congressman’s steadfast efforts to drive flood insurance negotiations over the past several months. “I applaud Congressman Grimm’s constant leadership in bringing all sides together on this important issue. His tireless work to find a solution for the National Flood Insurance Program is a testament to his dedication to his constituents” said Leader Cantor. “I couldn’t be more proud to deliver on such an important national and local issue like fixing the skyrocketing premiums of the NFIP” Rep. Grimm stated. “Without this crucial legislation, many hardworking families in Staten Island, Brooklyn, and throughout the U.S. will be forced out of their homes, foreclosures will sharply rise, and closings will continue to be canceled, preventing the sale of many homes and ultimately devaluing the recovering, yet still fragile real estate market. “This bill is a more comprehensive and fiscally sound approach than the Senate version and will ensure that no family is left out in the cold. Unlike the Senate version, this bill is retroactive through October 1, 2013.” Rep. Grimm also praised his colleagues on both sides of the aisle for their continued support and cooperation on this crucial issue, “This could not have been accomplished without extensive input from Congressman Cassidy (LA-6) and Congressmen Lobiondo (NJ-2), their contributions and leadership were invaluable” Rep. Grimm said. “Additionally, I am very proud that while much of the Congress is at a stalemate, I was able to work across the aisle with many Democrat members, but specifically my friend and fellow New York member Congressman Gregory Meeks (NY-5) who refused to accept anything less than a retroactive bill, encompassing many of the Superstorm Sandy victims that would have been devastated yet again without this collaborative effort. “Lastly, I must offer a special thank you to Majority Leader Cantor for his relentless work and commitment to this issue. Considering the strong bipartisan spirit and immense importance of this comprehensive reform, I fully expect that the amended version of H.R. 3370 will receive overwhelming support and swift passage in the House and Senate. My constituents in Staten Island and Brooklyn should rest easy that immediate flood insurance relief is well on its way.” Rep. Grimm is a member of the House Financial Services Committee, the House Home Protection Caucus, and is the author of H.R. 3370, the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act. ###
12.30.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-NY), co-chair of the House Russian Caucus, issued the following statement condemning the two terrorist attacks in Russia in advance of the Winter Olympics in Sochi: “I strongly condemn the terrorist attacks in Russia. As we approach the opening of the Winter Olympics in Sochi, we must not let the terrorists incite fear. The Olympics are a time for member nations to put aside their differences in the name of peaceful competition. That is why we must remain vigilant and take every threat seriously. “We cannot sweep these threats under the rug, like we did with Benghazi or the warnings from Russia on the Tsarnaev brother behind the Boston Marathon bombing. Each time we fail to recognize these threats, we not only risk the lives of innocent Americans, but appear weaker and vulnerable in the eyes of the enemy. In doing so, we allow the terrorists to become emboldened and continue their reign of terror throughout the world – attacking us and our allies. “The only winners in Sochi should be our athletes, which is why we must work closely with Russia and our allies to combat the threat of terrorism. That begins with taking every threat seriously and acting accordingly, so that the Winter Olympics remain a dream for athletes around the globe, instead of becoming a nightmare like Benghazi.” Rep. Grimm is the Co-Chair of the House Russian Caucus. He served over a decade as a Special Agent in the FBI and is a Marine combat veteran of the first Gulf War.
12.11.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Reps. Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) and Duncan Hunter (R-CA) are calling on colleagues to join them in urging U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry to make the release of Americans detained or missing in Iran a prerequisite to any nuclear deal negotiations. Yesterday, Secretary Kerry testified before the House Foreign Affairs Committee where he argued against linking hostage release to the deal, stating it “prejudices” them and the negotiations. Today, Reps. Grimm and Hunter announced that that they are circulating a letter among colleagues to gain Congressional support for this effort. “Where are our priorities as a nation?” said Rep. Grimm. “Secretary Kerry refuses to demand the release of American hostages held in Iran because he’s worried it could sour a nuclear deal. We’re putting negotiations with a state sponsor of terrorism before our own American citizens on a deal that could keep our enemy on a path to creating nuclear weapons. This is completely disgraceful! It’s time we get our priorities straight as a nation and put Americans first. There should be no negotiations with Iran on a nuclear deal until Americans detained and missing in Iran are released.” “If Iran’s government truly wants to convince skeptics that it’s negotiating in good faith, there are certain actions that must be taken—one being the release of Americans in captivity,” said Rep. Hunter. “Until Iran is willing to show it can be trusted, the U.S. and the world must not commit to any deal that lifts sanctions and alleviates pressure.” Currently, U.S. Marine Sergeant Amir Hekmati and Christian Pastor Saeed Abedini are being held hostage, and little information is known on former FBI Agent Robert Levinson who disappeared in Iran in 2007 while traveling. Rep. Grimm released a statement calling for the release of the Americans shortly after the deal was announced. He is also participated in the “Free Amir” campaign, an effort of 64 Members of Congress calling for the release of detained US Marine Amir. Reps. Grimm and Hunter are both combat veterans of the U.S. Marine Corps. ### Text of the letter is below: December XX, 2013 The Honorable John Kerry Secretary of State U.S. Department of State 2201 C Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20520 Dear Secretary Kerry: We are writing to request that before the United States even considers any potential deal with Iran reducing sanctions that the release of Americans held captive by their government be a pre-requisite. While we remain strongly opposed to any reduction in sanctions on the nation of Iran and believe that this is not a good deal for America or its allies, we shouldn’t consider any type of agreement that does not include the unconditional release of American citizens held captive – such as former U.S. Marine Sergeant Amir Hekmati and Christian Pastor Saeed Abedini – and information on Former FBI Agent Robert Levinson who disappeared in 2007 while traveling in Iran. If Iran is acting in good faith, of which we remain extremely skeptical, this will be an effective demonstration of the trust they profess a desire to build with the United States. We strongly urge you to ensure that before lifting any sanctions we should see a sign of good faith from Iran. If there is any deal endorsed by Congress, it should include the release of all detained Americans and information on the disappearance of Robert Levinson, who many believe is in Iran’s custody. While we continue to maintain the strongest of objections to any deal that reduces international sanctions we believe it would be a missed opportunity for our nation to not take a stand and require the repatriation of all Americans held hostage by the Iranian Regime. Sincerely, Michael G. Grimm Member of Congress Duncan Hunter Member of Congress
12.06.2013	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-SI/Brooklyn) issued the following statement on the selection of Bill Bratton to be the next NYPD Police Commissioner: “I congratulate Bill Bratton on his new role as Police Commissioner of the NYPD. With previous experience in NYC under Mayor Giuliani, he led efforts to dramatically reduce crime and homicide rates with new programs like Comstat and by implementing the “Broken Window” approach to clean up our neighborhoods and make our communities safer. “Under his leadership, we saw a new proactive approach to law enforcement – a change from the reactive days under the Dinkins and Koch administrations – that put NYC on a new path to crime reduction and made sweeping improvements in public safety. “Given his previous record of success as NYPD Police Commissioner, I am confident that Bill Bratton will build on the successes of Commissioner Ray Kelly and continue to make our city an even safer place to live, work, and visit.” ###
11.26.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-Staten Island/Brooklyn) issued the following statement criticizing the Obama Administration for failing to demand the release of three Americans detained in Iran as part of the interim nuclear deal, and calling for their release to be part of any final deal: “After further review of the ‘Iran nuclear deal’ I am convinced there is no up-side for the US, or our allies. The idea that this ‘deal’ will give Iran an opportunity to prove themselves is absurd - if they want to prove they are the least bit trustworthy, then let them start by releasing the three Americans they are holding hostage: Robert Levinson, Saeed Abedini, and U.S. Marine, Amir Hekmati. “At 19, I earned the title of US Marine and learned a code of honor that included never leaving a man behind. This Administration should take a cue from the Marine Corps and demand the release of the American citizens held by the Iranian regime before even considering any deal to lift sanctions. Furthermore, any potential deal with Iran must put an end to all of their nuclear ambitions as they have proven time and again that they cannot be trusted. “This deal is a victory for Iran, a slap in the face to our allies in the Middle East, especially Israel, and a dangerous, naive mistake for the US and the rest of the free world.” Rep. Michael Grimm is a Marine combat veteran of the First Gulf War. He is part of Congressional campaign to “Free Amir” – which calls for the release of the detained Marine.
11.21.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-SI/Brooklyn) issued the following statement in response to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid’s ‘Nuclear Option’ which will allow the Senate to confirm executive-branch nominees and most judicial nominees with simple majority votes. Only nominees to the Supreme Court would be subject to a 60-vote threshold going forward: “President Obama and Harry Reid have pulled an end-run around the democratic process, with a poor attempt to distract the media and the American people from the Administration’s blatant public failure with Obamacare. This is the most significant change to the Senate rules since 1975, and it completely undermines the intent of our Founding Fathers and overturns our long-established traditions. “In addition, the nuclear option was completely unnecessary, as Senate Republicans have repeatedly reached compromises with the Democrats to allow the confirmation of the President’s appointments. Furthermore, these additional judges are unnecessary in the DC Circuit Court of Appeals. However, the Democrats demanded these appointments to stack the deck with liberal –leaning judges who will rule to uphold key Obamacare provisions and other administration priorities. “While President Obama may view this rule change to appoint whomever he pleases as a short-term victory; in the long-term, he and Majority Leader Reid have significantly damaged the integrity of the U.S. Senate for short-sighted political gains.” ###
11.20.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – An estimated 29.1 million Americans have traveled with a pet in the past three years - and with the busiest travel days coming up next week, that number will escalate - but given the current regulations on national rail transportation, the Pet Industry Joint Advisory Council (PIJAC) knows they did not do it by train. The Pets on Trains Act of 2013 would open the doors on Amtrak and permit four-legged companions to join their owners on rail journeys. Congressman Denham (R-CA), the sponsor of H.R. 2066 – The Pets on Trains Act of 2013, was joined at Union Station’s Columbus Plaza by the bill’s original co-sponsors Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN) and Rep. Michael Grimm (R-NY). Rep. John Campbell (R-CA), also co-sponsor, was unable to attend today’s press conference. “To any pet owner, a pet is a part of the family,” said Rep. Grimm. “Currently, travelers are put in the difficult position where they are forced to choose between taking the train and leaving their pet behind. As someone who travels frequently between New York and DC, I would welcome the option to travel with my dog, Sebastian. I am proud to support this legislation that will allow Amtrak travelers the opportunity to travel with their pets without being forced to drive or put their pet through the stress of flying.” “Pets on Trains is a simple, common-sense bill that would save millions of pet owners time and money and allow them to bring beloved companions along when traveling via train,” said Rep. Denham. “My French bulldog, Lily, is part of our family and travels with us all the time – we never want to leave her behind.” H.R. 2066 proposes: • Amtrak must designate a “pet car” on each train that has more than one car • trip cannot be more than 750 miles • pets must be crated • pet kennels are to be stowed as per Amtrak baggage policies • additional fees are required Amtrak carried a record 737,537 passengers during Thanksgiving 2012, an increase of 1.9 percent over the previous year and the prior record set in 2011. In 2012, the Wednesday before Thanksgiving, was the single busiest day in the history of Amtrak with 140,691 passengers. Ticket revenues were a best ever $56.1 million, up 8.4 percent from 2011. By allowing pets on trains, Amtrak numbers would not only increase at Thanksgiving, their numbers would consistently do well throughout the year. “The pet industry embraces Pets on Trains legislation because we are fully aware of the benefits traveling together has to pet owners, as well as the pets themselves,” said Mike Canning, president & CEO of the Pet Industry Joint Advisory Council. “A piece of legislation like this also brings together two powerhouse industries as economic generators – and will have a positive effect on the economies of cities along the rail route.” The travel and tourism industry, according to the U.S. Travel Association has a $2 trillion impact generating $129 billion in taxes. According to a Dogtrekker.com survey, 47% of leisure travelers own dogs and 40% of those bring their dogs along on trips. Knowing that those pet owners generate $55 billion for the pet industry, Canning contends that opening up rail travel is a “win-win” for both business and pet owners. “Like the 29 million dedicated pet parents who have traveled with a pet in the last 3 years, I take Preston with me everywhere,” said Laura Votivo, Hallmark Channel’s pet lifestyle expert and certified dog trainer. “I won't go anywhere my dog is not welcome. I won't spend money anywhere my dog is not welcome. I would be more than happy to buy a ticket on Amtrak for my dog, as would the millions of other travelers, many of whom, support the 50+ billion dollar pet industry. That is why I support the Pets on Trains Act of 2013.“ Presently, only service dogs are permitted on Amtrak. Also ‘paw-resent’ at the press conference were Congressman Jeff Denham’s French Bulldog, Lily, Congressman Grimm’s rescue Yorkie, Sebastian with a host of canine accomplices from the Washington Humane Society, all in support of the Pets on Trains Act of 2013. Pet owners and advocates can help influence Congress by going directly to http://www.pijac.org/pet-alerts/house-bill-track-allow-pets-trains and following the prompts to contacting their elected representatives on Capitol Hill. # # # The Pet Industry Joint Advisory Council (PIJAC) is comprised of members of the pet industry, nationwide, including pet food and pet supply manufacturers, veterinarians, retailers, pet day care and boarding facilities, groomers among others. PIJAC provides its members a voice in state and national legislative issues and has supported pro-pet legislation and regulations for forty years. With over $183 million donated in the form of food and general supplies, as well as direct monetary aid, the pet industry and has helped more than 7.5 million homeless and shelter pets in the last two decades. More information can be found at www.pijac.org.
11.18.2013	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-Staten Island/Brooklyn) issued the following statement applauding Governor Andrew Cuomo for including Sandy-ravaged Ocean Breeze in the New York State Buyout Program: “I want to thank Governor Cuomo for once again doing the right thing in Staten Island by including Ocean Breeze in the State Buyout Program. His willingness to listen and respond to this community that was devastated by Sandy is welcome news on an Island where too many people are still waiting for a response to their pleas for assistance. This decision is good news for people in this neighborhood who have faced an uphill battle protecting their homes in this vulnerable area, as well as for nearby communities that will benefit from the additional flood protection that can be created by returning this area to Mother Nature. I will continue to work with Governor Cuomo and the City in pursuing community-based, flexible solutions for Sandy-impacted neighborhoods.” Rep. Grimm actively lobbied on behalf of the Ocean Breeze Community and sent a letter on October 24, 2013 urging the Governor to include Ocean Breeze in the Buyout Program. ###
11.15.2013	STATEN ISLAND, NY - Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-Staten Island/Brooklyn) issued the following statement: “Today marks one year since President Obama came to Staten Island and toured the damage in New Dorp Beach. On that day, promises were made by our President, our Governor, and our Mayor. While the State’s housing recovery program seems to be in full swing, far less can be said about the City’s Build-it-Back Program. “On Staten Island, most homeowners have yet to see a dime of federal funding distributed through Build-it-Back, while some have yet to move back home. For the first time in their lives, they may be wishing they lived on Long Island. “There is no excuse for New York City’s mishandling of housing recovery. The people should be the #1 priority when it comes to recovery. Period. That is what I fought for in Congress and that was our intent in passing the Sandy relief bill. “With little indication that the City to do the right thing, I have called on Secretary Donovan to release an additional $600 million from HUD- specifically for non-NYCHA housing - to meet all the unmet housing needs - from Priority 1 to those awaiting reimbursements. I have also called on the City to completely overhaul its misaligned priorities and make housing recovery its top priority. “The working and middle class people of Staten Island deserve the assistance they were promised. They are at their wits’ end, and without additional action, they do not stand a chance. There will be urban blight as people begin walking away from mortgages or foreclose on their homes. Property values will decline. “The City needs to get its priorities in order and put the people first. If they can’t handle it, then maybe they should ask Governor Cuomo for help, because Long Island appears to be fairing a lot better than the people on the City’s forgotten borough of Staten Island.” Additional Information: NYS has received about 4,500 applications. Through the State program, homeowners have already had their homes inspected and 4,295 have been issued award letters (as of October 23, 2013). Homeowners are eligible for up to $300,000 – with an additional $50,000 for mitigation. The average homeowner on Long Island will receive over $112,000 through the State’s program. Governor Cuomo has dedicated $800,000 to housing recovery. NYC has received about 24,000 applications. The first tranche of federal funding to NYC provided $1.77 billion in CDBG recovery funds, but the City chose to put only $648 million into housing – enough to meet only 1/3 of the Priority 1 housing needs (or assist only 4,000 of its 12,000 Priority 1 applicants). On November 12, 2013, Rep. Grimm sent a letter to Secretary Donovan requesting an additional $600 million specifically for non-NYCHA housing to meet all unmet housing needs. On November 13, 2013, Rep. Rep. Grimm sent a letter to Mayor Bloomberg asking that the City reprioritize its CDBG funding plan to better meet the recovery needs of homeowners by making them the #1 priority. ###
11.13.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-SI/Brooklyn) sent a stern letter to Mayor Michael Bloomberg calling on the City to reprioritize its CDBG funding plan to better meet the recovery needs of homeowners. Currently, the City spreads its funding across housing, resiliency, and mitigation. With so many people out of their homes or lacking the funds to repair their home, Rep. Grimm is calling on the City to put the people first and make them the top priority. “As frustrations with Build-it-Back continue to escalate, it’s becoming abundantly clear that the City has not set aside enough federal funding to fully meet our housing recovery needs. The City’s priorities are clearly misaligned and it’s the working and middle-class families of Staten Island who are going to be left in the cold,” said Grimm. “Without question, our #1 priority should be getting people back in their homes, and #2 should be investing in infrastructure upgrades to our sewage and water drainage system to prevent the type of back-up and flooding that damaged so many homes in Sandy and other storms. Unfortunately, the City doesn’t see it that way, which is why I am calling on them to re-prioritize funding to meet Staten Island’s most crucial recovery needs,” said Grimm. Earlier this week, Rep. Grimm sent a letter to HUD asking for an additional $600 million from HUD in CDBG funds to be used exclusively for housing in order to meet the unmet non-NYCHA housing needs of those recovering from Sandy. Text of letter: November 13, 2013 The Honorable Michael Bloomberg Mayor, City of New York City Hall New York, NY 10007 Dear Mayor Bloomberg: My purpose in writing is to strongly urge a recalibration of the City’s priorities with regard to funding provided by the Federal Government for Sandy recovery. The current priority regime guiding the City’s use of Sandy funds is giving short shrift to thousand of Staten Islanders who remain in dire need. As someone who was on the front line of the Congressional fight to enact the Superstorm Sandy Supplemental Appropriations bill, I can tell you with absolute certainty that our chief intent was to get families back into their homes and made whole as quickly as possible. Limiting our exposure to future flooding through resiliency and mitigation was an important priority as well, but a subordinate one in comparison to the needs of thousands of people who lost their homes and so much more to Sandy. Unfortunately, we have reached a point where this intent has clearly not been met. Frustration with the City’s Build-it-Back program in my district is increasing daily, as more and more residents impacted by Sandy come to terms with the very real possibility that they will not receive support from this program any time soon, if ever. Many working middle class families who were far from rich before Sandy and lost almost everything are essentially being told by the City that they are too affluent to merit support from Build-it-Back. At the same time, they see that the City is allocating CDBG funds for less urgent needs, such as the $40M for a “Resiliency Technologies Competition” that, while perhaps laudable, is far from a top priority when many Sandy survivors are still out of their homes and barely getting by. This is precisely the kind of absurdity that people have come to expect from their government, and I urge the City to work with me in restoring their faith in the recovery process by focusing first and foremost on getting people back into their homes and on their feet. While I understand that there are certain federal requirements attached to the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding the City received, it is clear from my conversations with federal officials that the City has significant discretion that would permit a much stronger emphasis on people whose homes were damaged by Sandy. It is well within the City’s power to re-allocate funding from the initial $1.7B in CDBG funding it received so that housing needs are clearly the top priority. Finally, there remains a pressing need for waste and storm water infrastructure improvements in the vulnerable areas of Staten Island. In South Beach for instance, many residents are at the point where they can expect flooding of their homes nearly every time it rains. I was recently visiting a home on Kensington Avenue where the owner was forced to build a brick wall over their garage to defend against regular flooding. Until just recently, residents on this street had been told that a City capital project addressing the problem would begin at the end of this year. Now, just as things are getting worse, they have come to learn that the project start date has slipped to 2020. This exemplifies an issue that must be addressed in communities all along Staten Island’s coastline in the very near future to ensure their long-term sustainability, and furthermore, this is exactly the type of mitigation project that the Congress intended the federal aid to be used for. Thank you for your prompt attention to these matters. My staff will be sending you follow-up questions for more specific details. I look forward to working with you to incorporate these urgent needs into the City’s action plan. Sincerely, MICHAEL G. GRIMM Member of Congress
11.12.2013	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-SI/Brooklyn) issued the following statement on the end of Timothy Cardinal Dolan’s three-year term as President of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops and the head of the U.S. Catholic Church: “Cardinal Dolan has been a steadfast champion for the almost 70 million U.S. Catholics throughout his leadership as President of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops. I have had the pleasure of meeting Cardinal Dolan on many occasions and his enthusiasm and dedication has warmed the hearts of many, particularly those in need of spiritual guidance in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy. Today I join my fellow Catholics nationwide to offer my gratitude and appreciation to Cardinal Dolan for his leadership and look forward to continue working with him as he leads the New York City Archdiocese. I also extend a warm welcome to Archbishop Joseph Kurtz who was chosen today to succeed Cardinal Timothy Dolan as the leader of our nation’s Catholic Church.” ###
10.24.2013	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-Staten Island/Brooklyn) called on Governor Andrew Cuomo to include Staten Island’s Ocean Breeze neighborhood in the New York State Buy-Out Program. “It not only makes sense to return this land to Mother Nature, but will be safer and cheaper for homeowners who would otherwise have to elevate their homes and pay astronomical flood insurance rates,” said Rep. Grimm. “I have been working with the State on the buy-outs and I am confident that Governor Cuomo will continue do the right thing for Staten Island and bring the same level of success we saw with Oakwood Beach.” According to the Ocean Breeze Civic Association, Ocean Breeze once contained 129 homes before Superstorm Sandy destroyed 20 of them. Of the remaining 109 standing homes, only roughly 30 are occupied. As of now, 90 homeowners have expressed interest in the buy-out program. Rep. Grimm played an integral role in the previous Oakwood Beach buyout and worked closely with Governor Cuomo’s office to ensure that all residents of Aviston Street were included in the program. Initially four homes on the street were left out, despite the high level of damage. ### A copy of the letter is attached and posted below: October 24, 2013 Governor Andrew Cuomo Governor’s Office The Executive Chamber, Capitol Albany, NY 12224 Dear Governor Cuomo: My purpose in writing is to strongly encourage the inclusion of residents in the Ocean Breeze community of Staten Island into the New York State Buy-Out Program. As you know, Ocean Breeze was among those communities that were so devastated by Superstorm Sandy that many of its residents are not back in their homes, now a year later. And unfortunately, Sandy was not the first time residents of Ocean Breeze have borne the brunt of Mother Nature. Nor’easters have repeatedly battered this community and caused substantial flooding; sometimes it takes no more than a heavy rainstorm to cause thousands of dollars in damage. Due to the community’s proximity to the shoreline, its lower elevation compared to Father Capodanno Boulevard, and the presence of several natural water inlets, it is reasonable to expect that the residents of Ocean Breeze will continue to be plagued by costly, disastrous weather events. As a result of this risk, many Ocean Breeze residents will face massive increases in their insurance premiums. Given the working class composition of this area, this new financial burden will make it exponentially more difficult for Sandy-impacted residents to return to their homes, and could even lead some to lose their homes entirely. For many the buy-out would be the only way to achieve something similar to the financial stability they had prior to Sandy. Further enhancing this area’s suitability for the buy-out program is the residents’ strong statement of interest and their organizing activities, which make the availability of large, contiguous land tracts a strong possibility. The acquisition of large tracts could provide significant additional flood protection for surrounding neighborhoods. In closing, I want to thank you for your work in implementing a buyout program that is helping many Oakwood Beach residents already. I believe we can build on these successes in other areas such as Ocean Breeze, and I look forward to working with you toward this objective. Sincerely, Michael G. Grimm Member of Congress
10.16.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House bipartisan working group, of which Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-SI/Brooklyn) is a member, spearheading the effort to resolve the fiscal impasse in Washington issued the following statement in response to the announcement of a deal to reopen the government and avoid a default on the nation’s debts: “On day one of the government shutdown, we joined together not as Democrats, not as Republicans, but as Americans deeply committed to resolving this impasse and avoiding a self-inflicted economic wound that would devastate families across the country. As it became clear that partisanship – and not problem solving – would dominate the discussion in Washington, we were joined by pragmatic, like-minded leaders on both sides of the aisle. In informal talks, we were able to put our differences aside and develop a potential solution. “We applaud our Senate colleagues for working together to come up with a solution. Now it is time for Congress to act to get the government open and avoid further roiling the markets. We look forward to continuing our bipartisan discussions with the goal of putting forth a long-term deficit reduction agreement to get our fiscal house in order and finding other areas of cooperation.” Rep. Michael Grimm was part of a the original House bipartisan working group that began with 18 members on Thursday, October 3. Since that announcement, the working group has expanded and continued to work to break the impasse. Members of the working group endorsing the above statement include: House Republicans: Rep. Lou Barletta Rep. Mike Coffman Rep. Charlie Dent Rep. Mike Fitzpatrick Rep. Jim Gerlach Rep. Chris Gibson Rep. Michael Grimm Rep. Richard Hanna Rep. David Joyce Rep. Pete King Rep. Leonard Lance Rep. Frank LoBiondo Rep. Pat Meehan Rep. Jon Runyan Rep. Glenn “GT” Thompson Rep. Don Young House Democrats: Rep. Ron Kind Rep. Ron Barber Rep. Dan Maffei Rep. Brad Schneider Rep. Mike McIntyre Rep. John Barrow Rep. Jim Matheson Rep. Kyrsten Sinema Rep. Ami Bera Rep. Bill Owens Rep. Scott Peters Rep. Gerry Connolly Rep. Jared Polis Rep. John Carney Rep. Jim Cooper Rep. John Delaney Rep. Jim Moran Rep. Mike Quigley Rep. Jim Himes Rep. Kurt Schrader Rep. Rick Larsen Rep. Dan Lipinski Rep. Tulsi Gabbard Rep. Janice Hahn
10.13.2013	STATEN ISLAND/BROOKLYN – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-SI/Brooklyn) issued the following statement in advance of Columbus Day: “This weekend, the vote schedule in Washington regrettably kept me from attending this year’s Columbus Day Parade in Brooklyn. However, it has not kept me from reflecting on the great contribution Italians, like Christopher Columbus, have made in shaping our nation’s rich history and culture, as well as the long-lasting heritage that continues on today in the Italian-American community. “I have always been proud of my Italian heritage. Like many of my constituents, it has shaped my life and helped define who I am. Our country also wouldn’t be what it is today without the great Italians who passed through America and left an imprint, nor without those –like my Sicilian grandparents - who immigrated here in search of a better life and to live the American dream. In New York City, the legacy of Italian influence lives on strong in our history, arts, culture, architecture, and cuisine. “In Congress, I am honored to represent the district with the highest percentage of Italian-Americans in the country. Whether you are Italian or not, let us spend Columbus Day remembering this great Italian explorer and the many who followed. They have all helped shape our nation, our city, and our community – and their influence will be everlasting.” ###
10.08.2013	STATEN ISLAND, NY - This evening, Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R-SI/Brooklyn) will be awarded by Project Hospitality with the “Superstorm Sandy Distinguished Service Award” for his dedication to Superstorm Sandy recovery efforts. Due to the government shutdown, Rep. Grimm is unable to attend the Harvest Gala at Staten Island’s Hilton Garden Inn. He has sent a video message that will be played this evening at the event, and the video remarks are pasted below. Rep. Grimm remarks for Project Hospitality’s Harvest Gala: Hi. I’m Congressman Michael Grimm, your proud representative in Congress. I am honored to be recognized by Project Hospitality for my Sandy relief efforts. I regret that I cannot be with you to receive this award in person. I am still in Washington working on a solution to end the shutdown and reopen the government without any further delay. Like many of you, the devastation of Superstorm Sandy is something I will never forget. Even before the storm hit, I was on the ground working with many of you to prepare for the worst. Afterwards, we continued to work side-by-side with other neighbors in the community to address the recovery needs of those devastated in Staten Island – serving hot meals, collecting and distributing warm clothes, and helping those who could not return home find shelter. In the last year, I have seen so many selfless individuals lend a helping hand in countless acts of kindness and humanity. I couldn’t be more proud to represent such a remarkable group of people. Of course, Project Hospitality was key to Staten Island’s incredible response to this disaster. You went above and beyond the call of duty – working around the clock – to address our community’s recovery needs. I couldn’t possibly count the number of hours I spent at the shelters at Mount Manresa or Bayley Seton working with Reverend Troia and the Project Hospitality staff trying to help people who had no home get back on their feet. Reverend Troia, thank you for always responding to my calls, no matter what time it was or what holiday it happened to be. We cannot bring back the lives lost or restore some of the things we lost that night, but we can build back stronger and more resilient than ever before. Thanks to you, we are moving forward with this goal. I am honored to work alongside Project Hospitality in helping our borough recover from Sandy’s devastating impact, and look forward to remaining partners to help those in need. Thank you again for all you do, and thank you for this honor. I humbly accept it not only for myself, but for the unsung citizen heroes that made the greatest positive impact of all – for their sacrifice, relentless spirit, and true inspiration. May God continue to bless all of you and your families. And may God bless these United States of America. Goodnight. ###
09.20.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-S.I./Brooklyn) issued the following statement in response to Pope Francis’ most recent interview, in which he stated that the Catholic Church should be a “home for all” and not “a small chapel”: “Pope Francis wants the Catholic Church to be a ‘home for all’ and not a ‘small chapel.’ The Republican Party should take note. We have drifted too far from our ‘Big Tent’ days, and we’re only going to weaken if we continue down this path. “Like the Catholic Church, we don’t have to turn our back on our values or change our positions, but we must widen our focus and look beyond the handful of social issues that continue to drive the debate. Considering we’re still in a struggling economy, we should be focusing on getting people back to work, rebuilding infrastructure, and making education more affordable; and not solely on a few very personal and morally-based issues. “Pope Francis knows the secret to the Catholic Church’s survival is growing its membership by engaging the younger generation, and that takes a change of tone to strike a better balance on the issues. The Republican Party can take a page out of Pope Francis’s playbook and be more inclusive and less judgmental.” Rep. Michael Grimm is a practicing member of the Roman Catholic faith. ###
09.19.2013	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, the House Committee on Financial Services held a hearing on the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA) Reauthorization Act of 2013, which was introduced by Representatives Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) and Carolyn Maloney (D-NY). The bill would extend Terrorism Risk Insurance Program for five years, through December 31, 2019. TRIA was first authorized in 2002, and is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2014. Reps. Maloney, Grimm, Peter King (R-NY), and Michael Capuano (D-MA) testified in support of the extension. “Today’s hearing has jumpstarted a critical debate in Congress on TRIA. If TRIA expires, not only will we expose our nation to great financial risk, we could see the availability of terrorism insurance diminish. This would put large construction projects on hold and leave properties like skyscrapers, sports stadiums, and key infrastructure uninsured. It would be irresponsible to allow TRIA to lapse, which is why Rep. Maloney and I have introduced the TRIA Reauthorization Act to extend this vital program for another five years,” said Rep. Grimm. “Our country can’t afford to lose the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA). If Congress doesn’t extend TRIA, major construction projects in New York, Boston, Chicago, LA and more will stop. If Congress doesn’t extend TRIA, Disney World, sports stadiums, and local infrastructure projects, won’t be able to get insurance. Major, essential economic engines in our country will grind to a halt if Congress does not extend TRIA. Hundreds of thousands of jobs across the country will be lost. That’s why Congressman Grimm and I are fighting so hard to pass our bill to make sure TRIA remains in place for at least another 5 years,” said Rep. Maloney. “In the wake of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, terrorism risk insurance disappeared from the marketplace. As a result, economic activity stalled, contributing to growing job losses and increasing hardship. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act brought terrorism risk insurance back to the market, helping to re-start the engine of job creation and restore economic growth. The terrorism risk insurance mechanism established by TRIA has performed this function effectively and efficiently for more than a decade, and numerous studies have shown that terrorism risk coverage would once again disappear from the market without it. CIAT fully endorses the efforts of Reps. Grimm and Maloney to extend this legislation and continue its important contribution to economic vitality and national security,” stated Martin DePoy, Coalition to Insure Against Terrorism Steering Committee Coordinator. Before the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, terrorism coverage was included in general insurance policies. After September 11th, terrorism insurance became very expensive, or unavailable. Congress responded by passing the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA) of 2002 which created the Terrorism Insurance Program – a program in which the government would share some of the losses with private insurance in the event of another attack. An individual act of terrorism must be certified jointly by the Secretary of the Treasury, Secretary of State, and Attorney General, and losses must exceed $5 million. The federal government shares in an insurer's losses only if the insurance industry's aggregate insured losses from certified acts of terrorism exceed $100 million, throughout the entire industry. The amount of the government share varies depending on the size of uninsured losses. Each insurer is responsible for paying out a certain amount in claims—known as its deductible—before receiving federal coverage. An insurer's deductible is proportionate to its size, equaling 20% of an insurer's annual direct earned premiums for TRIA-covered lines of insurance. Once the $100 million aggregate loss threshold and 20% deductible are passed, the federal government is to cover 85% of each insurer's losses above its deductible up until the amount of losses totals $100 billion. The $100 billion figure is total losses not just federal assistance. In addition, TRIA contains important taxpayer protections. In the event of government losses due to an act of terrorism the Treasury is able to recoup losses by applying a surcharge to future insurance premiums to repay these losses over time. If TRIA were to lapse at the end of 2014 billions, possibly trillions, in commercial loans that are required to have terrorism insurance would be in technical default and could be called in, creating a massive financial and economic disruption. The bill has over 75 bipartisan cosponsors. The nine original cosponsors include: Reps. Michael Grimm (R-NY), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Pete Sessions (R-TX), André Carson (D-IN), Peter King (R-NY), Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Dennis Ross (R-FL), and Timothy Bishop (D-NY). ###
09.05.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-SI/Brooklyn) issued the following statement withdrawing support from President Obama’s plan to attack Syria: “When President Obama announced his plans to strike Syria in response to the discovery that the Assad regime used chemical weapons to kill thousands of men, women and children; my initial reaction, as a Marine combat veteran, was to stand by the Commander in Chief and support immediate, targeted strikes. I believed that the reputation and credibility of the United States was on the line and that we had to send a strong message that the use of chemical weapons is reprehensible and will not be tolerated. Unfortunately, the time to act was then and the moment to show our strength has passed. “As debate has dragged on in Congress, the President has weakened his position as our leader and deteriorated our credibility on the world stage. The President has changed his red line to the world’s red line, he showed his hand when he should have kept it close, he failed to gain the support of key allies, and continues to delay action indefinitely until Congress acts. “Now that the Assad regime has seen our playbook and has been given enough time to prepare and safeguard potential targets, I do not feel that we have enough to gain as a nation by moving forward with this attack on our own. “Additionally I have heard from many constituents who strongly oppose unilateral action at a time when we have so many needs here at home. Thus, after much thought, deliberation and prayer, I am no longer convinced that a U.S. strike on Syria will yield a benefit to the United States that will not be greatly outweighed by the extreme cost of war.�? ###
09.04.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on Rosh Hashanah, which begins this evening at sundown: “Tonight at sundown begins the celebration of the Jewish New Year, and the start of the Jewish High Holy Days. This evening, members of the Jewish faith will gather with family and friends in their homes and synagogues to celebrate the arrival of the year 5774. As Rosh Hashanah begins, let us be reminded of the great contribution the Jewish community has made in our country and the strong bond between the United States and Israel. I pray that all my Jewish friends and constituents are blessed with a safe, healthy, and joyful year ahead. L’Shanah Tovah U’metukah - have a happy and sweet new year.” Rep. Michael Grimm is a co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus. ###
08.06.2013	NEW YORK, NY – Today, Rep. Michael Grimm (R-NY) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s speech this afternoon in Phoenix, AZ on homeownership and housing finance reform: “I agree with many aspects of the president’s plan: putting private capital at the center of the housing finance system; ending the bailout of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; and maintaining the 30-year fixed rate mortgage. Unfortunately, like most of the president’s plans, this one is short on details. Americans don’t want another speech; they want a tangible plan of action to make housing more affordable and accessible for responsible Americans who have worked hard to achieve the dream of owning a home. “The president claims that he is committed to cutting the red tape and over-regulation that is keeping Americans from homeownership. However, I am skeptical of this promise given this administration’s onslaught of regulations that have been killing jobs and stifling economic growth. Furthermore, provisions in Dodd-Frank provide obstacles to home-ownership that could raise interest rates and restrict a homebuyer’s access to capital needed to service a mortgage. “For the last few years, this president has been silent on housing reform. Now that the Republican-led Financial Services Committee – on which I proudly serve – has passed the PATH Act, I am encouraged to hear that the president has decided to revisit the topic and seems willing to join us in the debate. However, until he puts forth an actual plan for housing reform, today’s speech is nothing more than empty rhetoric. That is why I remain committed to passing a comprehensive plan that repeals onerous regulations and increases access to capital - making the dream of home ownership a reality for those who have worked hard to earn it and protecting current home owners from a destructive bubble that devalues their investment.” Rep. Grimm is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. ###
08.02.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) led 17 fellow House Members on a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder calling for a criminal investigation of Jon Corzine for possible perjury while testifying to Congress. Jon Corzine’s testimony before three Congressional Committees – including the House Financial Services Committee - contradicts evidence revealed in a civil complaint filed by the CFTC on June 27, 2013. “As a former federal law enforcement agent, I take the rule of law very seriously. The recorded conversations transcribed in the CFTC’s civil complaint provide evidence that Mr. Corzine had knowledge of illegal transfers – a fact he denied to Congress. It is outrageous and unacceptable to let this discrepancy go without a formal criminal investigation. Mr. Corzine has a duty to be honest with the customers from whom he stole money as well as the Members of Congress to whom he testified. Any refusal to move forward with an investigation would be a gross injustice.” Rep. Grimm has led previous efforts regarding MF Global. On May 14, 2012, he led 64 House Members in a letter calling on A.G. Holder to appoint a special counsel in the MF Global investigation. Rep. Grimm is served over a decade in the FBI working deep undercover investigating financial crimes. He is a member of the House Financial Services Committee. ### The text of the letter is below: August 1, 2013 The Honorable Eric Holder Attorney General of the United States U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 Dear Attorney General Holder, We are writing to request that the Department of Justice re-examine the criminal case against Jon Corzine, the former CEO of MF Global. In light of the civil charges filed by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) on June 27, 2013 against both Mr. Corzine, as well as Edith O’Brien the former assistant treasurer of MF Global Holdings, we believe a revisiting of the criminal probe into this matter is warranted. In addition, we urge you to broaden the scope of your investigation into the actions of Mr. Corzine to include the possibility that Mr. Corzine perjured himself before three Congressional Committees during hearings held to examine the collapse of MF Global in December of 2011. The CFTC complaint lays out, in disturbing, previously undisclosed detail, how deeply involved Mr. Corzine was with the criminal transfer of segregated client funds during the final days of MF Global. The complaint discloses several recorded phones calls in which Mr. Corzine discusses ways to use client funds as a means to clear trades for the firm’s book more quickly. Pages 23 and 24 of the complaint read as follows: “On the afternoon of October 27, Corzine spoke to Employee #1 on a recorded telephone line to strategize how they could use customer segregated funds to induce JPM to clear MF Global’s trades more quickly: Corzine: We have a money management account at Chase, if my memory serves me Employee #1: Yeah, it’s the JP Morgan Trust account, but that’s cash seg for clients -- it has nothing to do with greasing our wheels for Chase to move. Corzine: I understand but you put it in a tri-party, and then once the securities have started moving, then you move it back to the, um --this is the same thing we did last night, they left it in the tri-party, the seg money.” The complaint goes on to outline how Mr. Corzine was aware, well before the firm’s bankruptcy on October 30, 2011, that MF Global had illegally transferred customer segregated funds and that there was a massive shortfall of client money, as outlined on both pages 24 and 27 of the complaint: Page 24: “Corzine and O’Brien received documents reflecting that, as of the close of the prior business day (Wednesday, October 26), the Firm’s excess funds in customer segregated accounts totaled approximately $116 million, and the overall FCM Excess Cash (combining segregated and secured balances) was negative $341 million. The negative figure signaled that the Firm had once again violated Firm policy.” Page 27: On October 27, “at approximately 8:45 p.m. ET, Employee #2 told Corzine on a recorded telephone line that some of the funds O’Brien had transferred from the FCM to help satisfy MF Global’s proprietary obligations had not been returned. Corzine asked if she had received back “enough to be in compliance,” and the employee responded, “no, she[’s] indicating she’s net short $106 million.” Corzine thereafter instructed the employee to “raise hell” with JPM to obtain funds from the secured revolver to “cover up” the gap left by transfers of funds that were not returned. Corzine did not receive assurances that the funds were returned.” If the previously mentioned evidence of the criminal misappropriation of client funds were not sufficient to bring criminal charges, then surely these newly revealed recorded conversations cast enough doubt as to the honesty of the testimony Mr. Corzine provided to the House Committee and Agriculture, the Senate Committee on Agriculture and the House Financial Services Sub-Committee of Oversight & Investigations to warrant a perjury investigation at the very least. Before these committees Mr. Corzine made the following oral and written statements: "I simply do not know where the money is." -made in written and verbal testimony before House and Senate Agriculture Committees (Dec. 7, 2011; Dec. 13, 2011) "I was stunned when I was told on Sunday October 30, 2011, that MF Global could not account for many hundreds of millions of dollars of client money.” - written testimony to Senate Agriculture Committee (Dec 13, 2011) "I did not, however, generally involve myself in the mechanics of the clearing and settlement of trades, or in the movement of cash and collateral." - written testimony to Senate Agriculture Committee (Dec. 13, 2011) Clearly, these statements are contradicted by the newly released recorded conversations involving Mr. Corzine prior to MF Global’s bankruptcy. It is clear that he knew where the money was; it had been transferred to JPMorgan Chase (see pages 23 and 27 of the complaint.) Obviously, he did, in fact, involve himself in the movement of cash and securities (see pages 24 and 27 of the complaint). Finally, there is no way Mr. Corzine could have been “stunned” to learn of hundreds of millions of dollars of missing client funds on October 30, 2011, as he was clearly aware of shortfalls in the segregation account on October 27, 2011 (see page 27 of the complaint). In order to ensure both the integrity of our legal system as well as continued faith in the integrity of U.S. financial markets, as well as the laws and regulations that govern them, were urge you to take prompt action in the aforementioned matters and we look forward seeing justice served in this case. Sincerely, Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) Scott Garrett (R-NJ) Stephen Fincher (R-TN) Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO) Bill Huizenga (R-MI) Tim Huelskamp (R-KS) Walter Jones (R-NC) Scott Tipton (R-CO) Chris Collins (R-NY) Bob Gibbs (R-OH) Stevan Pearce (R-NM) James Sensenbrenner (R-WI) Bill Posey (R-FL) Steve Stivers (R-OH) Trey Gowdy (R-SC) Alan Nunnelee (R-MS) Randy Hultrgen (R-IL) Kerry Bentivolio (R-MI)
08.02.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) voted for the Keep the IRS Off Your Health Care Act (H.R. 2009), which passed the House. The bill prevents the IRS from implementing or enforcing any part of President Obama’s healthcare law. “The IRS has proven to be a scandal-ridden organization that has abused its authority by targeting individuals and organizations,” said Rep. Grimm. “How can we expect the American people to trust it with something as important as healthcare? Healthcare decisions should be made by patients and doctors, not by Washington bureaucrats at the IRS. This important bill takes the IRS out of Obamacare – putting families and individuals back in control of decisions regarding their personal healthcare needs.” This is the 40th time Rep. Grimm has voted to defund or repeal all or parts of the healthcare law. Rep. Grimm is also a cosponsor of Rep. Tom Graves (R-GA) Defund Obamacare Act (H.R. 2682) - a bill to fully defund Obamacare. President Obama has already signed seven bills that repeal or defund parts of his health care law. ###
08.02.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement applauding House passage of the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act (H.R. 367), requiring an up-or-down vote in Congress on any major new regulation with an economic cost of $100 million or more: “My vote for the REINS Act represents one of the very reasons I came to Congress: to fight for the return to small government. Our country has become over-burdened with Washington bureaucrats and ‘big-government’ regulations that have killed any opportunity for our economy and businesses to grow. The president’s job-killing regulations are costing our economy billions and that’s unacceptable. The REINS Act targets these very rules, making them subject to Congressional approval before they can be implemented,” said Grimm. “More government does not create jobs, but by rolling back these onerous regulations, we can create a friendly environment for job creation. Our local economy deserves an opportunity to grow and one way to do that is to rein in these job-killing regulations that have kept American businesses from remaining competitive and creating new jobs,” added Grimm. The REINS Act would require any major regulation—a rule or regulation with an economic impact of $100 million or more as scored by the Office of Management and Budget—from the executive branch to come before Congress for an up-or-down vote before it could be enacted. The bill passed the House last Congress, but never got a hearing in the Senate. Furthermore, additional costly administrative rulemaking is expected to be promulgated to implement Obamacare, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and the President’s climate change agenda. ###
07.30.2013	BROOKLYN, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-Brooklyn/S.I.) applauded the announcement that the City of New York will add an extra ferry stop at the Brooklyn Army Terminal at 58th Street in Sunset Park, which will provide further transit options for the Brooklyn commuters impacted by disruptions to the R train service between Brooklyn and Manhattan which are set to begin this week. “This is welcomed news for the commuters in Bay Ridge who rely on the R train daily to take them to and from work,” said Grimm. “My staff and I have been working closely with the mayor’s office and other agencies to get the ferry stop up and running. I thank the City’s team for filling this important service gap for Brooklyn commuters.” Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced earlier today the addition of a new ferry stop in Brooklyn which will expand the City's existing weekday Rockaway Ferry pilot service. The service will continue to be operated by Seastreak and will run on a similar weekday schedule to the existing pilot ferry service, which is set to continue through Labor Day. Ferries will depart from Beach 108th Street and Beach Channel Drive in the Rockaways, stopping at the new 58th Street landing in Brooklyn, Pier 11 in Lower Manhattan and East 34th Street in Midtown. One-way fares will remain $2.00. The new Brooklyn stop will begin Monday, August 5th. ###
07.22.2013	STATEN ISLAND, NY - Today, Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-SI/Brooklyn) sent a letter to the Small Business Administration (SBA) asking that disaster recovery loans awarded to Sandy victims be forgiven, for those who would have otherwise been eligible for Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) grants distributed through NYC’s ‘Build it Back’ Program. “After Sandy hit, victims were told to apply for SBA loans. Seniors had to choose between draining their retirement or taking on more debt; and working families on whether to dip into their child’s college fund. For some, taking the loan seemed like the only option at the time. Now as other victims are lining up for CDBG recovery grants, those who took the loans are falling into debt. It’s simply not fair to punish those who played by the rules. That is why I am calling on SBA to level the playing field and forgive the loans for those eligible for ‘Build it Back’ recovery grants,” said Rep. Grimm. “Finally, there appears to be a clear message to Sandy victims who have been again victimized by the financial restraints placed on them by the government programs made available to assist them. Congressman Grimm recognizes that the only recourse is to give financial relief from the SBA loans, which, until the Built It Back Program was introduced, was the only real source of funding for rebuilding. I believe we should give full support to Congressman Grimm's proposal so that we start to make meaningful strides toward rebuilding the Staten Island community. I will be circulating petitions to our community to gather support for the Congressman in this effort,” said Derek Tabacco, Guyon Rescue Group. Under federal guidelines, a duplication of benefits is prohibited, meaning that those eligible for CDBG recovery grants many not receive them if they have also received an SBA loan. Up until last week, those who were approved for a loan, but turned it down, were also ineligible for CDBG grants. After a hard push from Rep. Grimm and the NYC Congressional delegation, HUD issued guidance last week allowing them to receive the loan. Those who accepted the SBA loans still remain at a disadvantage in regards to taking on debt. Rep. Grimm is calling on SBA to forgive the loans in order to provide relief to this group and level the playing field for all homeowners impacted by Superstorm Sandy. As of July 19, 2013, SBA reports that in Richmond County: 4,582 home loan applications were received and 2,395 were approved, totaling $140,364,900. In NYC: 43,199 were received and 20,700 were approved, totaling $1,271,324,600. The SBA does not have data on loans approved, but declined by the homeowner. ### A copy of Rep. Grimm’s letter to the Small Business Administration is as follows and attached: July 22, 2013 The Honorable Karen Mills Administrator U.S. Small Business Administration 409 3rd St, SW Washington DC 20416 Dear Administrator Mills: My purpose in writing is to urge debt forgiveness for victims of Superstorm Sandy who accepted SBA disaster loans, but would have otherwise been eligible for Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) recovery grant funds. As you certainly know, Superstorm Sandy had a devastating impact on many living in the affected areas, knocking them out of their homes for many months and creating massive, unexpected financial needs that have yet to be resolved. For months after the storm, residents who went to FEMA for assistance were referred to the SBA to address needs that could not be met by FEMA’s individual assistance program. Some who were offered SBA disaster loans declined them owing to concerns about taking on additional debt during a time of great financial distress. A recent decision by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) ensures these individuals are now eligible for assistance under New York City’s “Build it Back” program, which administers CDBG funding provided by HUD. This is a critical development which, if implemented properly, will enable thousands of victims of Superstorm Sandy to receive additional assistance without taking on additional debt load. It is critical, however, that we not overlook individuals who qualified for and accepted SBA loans because they felt they had no other options in their quest to recover. Current policies have created a circumstance in which individuals who acted precisely as the government suggested – use SBA loans to cover unmet disaster-related needs – are the ones who being punished with additional debt. This policy must be corrected. I strongly urge the Administration to remove this burden off the backs of Sandy victims who are already carrying so much by forgiving all disaster loans issued pursuant to Superstorm Sandy, for those who would otherwise be eligible for CDBG funds. Your prompt attention to this matter is greatly appreciated. Sincerely, Michael Grimm Member of Congress
07.05.2013	NEW YORK, NY – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-S.I./Brooklyn) issued the following statement on today’s announcement by the Vatican that the Roman Catholic Church will declare the late Pope John Paul II a saint: “As a proud Catholic, I join with Staten Island and Brooklyn’s faithful in joyful celebration of Pope John Paul II’s impending canonization. When I was 12 years old, I was honored to travel with my choir to the Vatican to sing for Pope John Paul and a private audience. I will never forget how privileged I felt when he came down from the altar after the performance and blessed us all. “Pope John Paul’s amazing life and leadership guided the Church’s loving message of compassion and charity through the complexities of the modern world. Through his countless pastoral trips and youth congregations, Pope John Paul’s energy, personability, and endless faith brought a renewed belief in the teachings of Christ and the relevance of Christian morality in the 21st Century, particularly among young people. A tireless advocate for the poor and a constant voice for freedom of expression, Pope John Paul’s brave criticism of the Soviet regime directly contributed to the fall of communism in Eastern Europe. “The canonization of Pope John Paul II is testament to the legacy and life of a remarkable leader in the Catholic Church. Saint Pope John Paul II will serve as a constant source of strength and comfort to the community of 1.2 billion Catholics worldwide.” ###
07.02.2013	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-SI/Brooklyn) joined the entire NYC delegation in urging Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Shaun Donovan to cut bureaucratic tape within the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program that hinders the City from providing Sandy recovery aid to businesses, homeowners, and displaced residents who desperately need relief but are currently ruled ineligible for aid. The bipartisan, bicameral group of New York City’s Congressional members called for three key HUD reforms in an effort to lift unnecessary barriers to the CDBG-Disaster Recovery program: Allow New York City homeowners who were approved for, but did not accept, Small Business Administration (SBA) loans to become eligible for CDBG grants to meet their recovery needs. Eliminate the need for environmental reviews for homeowners eligible for CDBG funds to expedite home repairs and rehabilitation. Relax strict requirements under the FEMA Disaster Housing Assistance Program (DHAP) in order to meet the needs of the city’s most vulnerable families. “Current federal regulations have tied the City’s hands when it comes to helping local homeowners and small businesses recover from Sandy,” said Rep. Grimm. “For almost two months, I have been urging HUD to change the restrictions on SBA loans, which have left some residents ineligible for funds distributed through NYC Build it Back. I am proud to be joined by the New York City delegation in calling on HUD to remove this obstacle and others in order to facilitate a full and speedy recovery.” The New York City congressional delegation wrote in a letter to Secretary Donovan, “We have heard from our constituents that there are regulatory requirements that are impeding the City’s ability to repair homes and provide shelter for those in need. This includes a denial of benefits for those who have been approved for U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) loans, and a requirement for individuals to comply with State environmental standards in order to get reimbursed for repairs. In addition, the eligibility requirements for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Disaster Housing Assistance Program (DHAP), which was created to help those who do not qualify for traditional housing assistance programs, are so restrictive that they have resulted in less than one percent of applicants being approved. We ask that you review these regulatory requirements and waive or alter them as needed to ensure that homeowners are receiving consistent and effective assistance during this recovery.” The letter was signed by Senators Kirsten Gillibrand, Charles E. Schumer, and Representatives Charles Rangel, Jerrold Nadler, Joseph Crowley, Yvette Clarke, Carolyn Maloney, Nydia Velázquez, José E. Serrano, Gregory Meeks, Michael Grimm, Hakeem Jeffries, Grace Meng, and Eliot Engel. Last month, New York City launched “NYC Build it Back,” a CDBG program that assists homeowners, landlords and tenants across the five boroughs whose homes were impacted by Superstorm Sandy. “NYC Build it Back” is funded with approximately $720 million in Federal disaster recovery funds passed by Congress earlier this year, which included an initial $1.77 billion CDBG-Disaster Recovery allocation through HUD. Under current federal rules, city homeowners who were approved for Sandy-related SBA loans, but then decided not to take them, are now ineligible for funding under the “NYC Build it Back” program. Additionally, homeowners who experienced damage to their homes that resulted in losses greater than half the value of the home must undergo an environmental review. Under HUD rules, however, “NYC Build it Back” can only conduct retroactive environmental reviews for repairs if the cost is less than 50 percent of the value of the home, leaving many homeowners ineligible for federal aid and paying out-of-pocket for repairs. The bipartisan group also pointed out that eligibility requirements under the DHAP program are too strict and not aiding the residents that the program intended to help. According to statistics provided by the City, only an estimated 25 out of the 7,000 applicants to date are currently eligible. These residents have already shown that they do not qualify for traditional FEMA Rental Assistance – either due to extremely low income, long-term housing need, or lack of long term housing options, but still have to meet the same requirements under the DHAP program. The city's Congressional members urged the federal agency to swiftly review these regulations that have caused denied critical benefits to Superstorm Sandy victims and to change or waive the policies as needed in order to continue the effort to rebuild and revitalize communities hit hardest by the storm. Full text of the letter is below and attached: Dear Secretary Donovan, We are writing to express our concerns with current HUD regulations that we believe are creating unintentional and unnecessary barriers to New York City’s recovery from Hurricane Sandy. We have heard from our constituents that there are regulatory requirements that are impeding the City’s ability to repair homes and provide shelter for those in need. This includes a denial of benefits for those who have been approved for U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) loans, and a requirement for individuals to comply with State environmental standards in order to get reimbursed for repairs. In addition, the eligibility requirements for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Disaster Housing Assistance Program (DHAP), which was created to help those who do not qualify for traditional housing assistance programs, are so restrictive that they have resulted in less than one percent of applicants being approved. We ask that you review these regulatory requirements and waive or alter them as needed to ensure that homeowners are receiving consistent and effective assistance during this recovery. After Hurricane Sandy, homeowners whose homes were damaged by the storm were advised to apply for a loan from the SBA to repair their homes. This loan constitutes a benefit and under the federal Duplication of Benefit rules, residents who were approved for SBA loans are ineligible to receive grants through the New York City administered Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, NYC Build it Back, in that loan amount. This prohibition is regardless of whether the homeowner ended up taking the loan or not. For example: A homeowner who has already been approved for a $150,000 loan from the SBA, but did not actually take it, will not be eligible for $150,000 worth of assistance from NYC Build it Back. Should NYC Build it Back determine that this homeowner, for example, needs additional repair assistance beyond the $150,000, SBA retains the right of first refusal and can determine whether or not a homeowner will receive this additional assistance. We believe that this policy is unintentionally burdensome and will prevent many homeowners from receiving the assistance they need. It also penalizes homeowners who did what they were told to do and applied for SBA loans after the storm. We ask that HUD work with SBA to reduce the regulatory red tape for homeowners who have qualified for a SBA loan, so they are not unnecessarily burdened by more debt and can make a full, sustainable recovery. NYC Build it Back also administers a homeowner reimbursement program. However, this reimbursement program will not be able to help all of the homeowners in need, due to the requirement that homes that receive federal assistance greater than 50% than the value of their home must undergo an environmental review in order to be in compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). According to HUD guidance, in order to reimburse homeowners for out-of-pocket expenses, NYC Build it Back can conduct retroactive environmental reviews for repairs that have already been completed – but only if the home has not been “substantially damaged.” The substantially damaged definition is triggered when the cost to repair a home to its pre-storm condition is 50 percent or greater than the fair market value of the structure itself. This creates an inequitable system that is not based on the actual cost of repairs or the potential impact to the environment, but rather on the value of the home. For example: Two homeowners complete the exact same repairs to the interior of their homes. The repairs amount to $70,000 for each home. One home is valued at $120,000 and the other at $150,000. NYC Build it Back can only reimburse the homeowner with the more valuable home, despite the fact that they did the exact same work. We ask that you eliminate the need for an environmental review on home repairs that have already been completed, and can be reimbursed through the NYC Build it Back program. Eligible homeowners should not penalized because of the environmental review and we do not believe it is necessary in post-disaster recovery. This will enable New York City to reimburse homeowners with structures that are substantially damaged and will also expedite the process for repairing and rehabilitating these homes. Lastly, the FEMA Disaster Housing Assistance Program (DHAP) is not helping the people it is intended to assist. DHAP was targeted for residents who have already demonstrated that they do not qualify for traditional FEMA Rental Assistance – either due to extremely low income, long-term housing need, or lack of long term housing options. Yet DHAP has some of the same restrictive requirements as FEMA Rental Assistance, which has resulted in an extremely low eligibility rate. To date, of the 7,000 families screened for DHAP eligibility, only 25 have qualified. We ask that you relax the eligibility requirements for the DHAP program so that it may meet the needs of the most vulnerable residents in the community. Thank you for your consideration of these requests. We appreciate your leadership in the recovery since Hurricane Sandy damaged our shores over seven months ago and we look forward to working with you to refine these issues and ensure that the rebuilding process continues effectively and efficiently.
07.01.2013	NEW YORK, NY – Today, Rep. Michael Grimm (R-SI/Brooklyn) issued the following statement in response to news that 49-year-old Catholic priest, Father François Murad, was beheaded June 23rd in northern Syria, where he had been setting up a monastery. The group responsible is reported to be Jabhat al-Nusra, which is a designated terrorist organization with links to Al-Qaeda. “The beheading of a Catholic priest in Syria is a horrifying atrocity. Furthermore, the promotion of the video by the group responsible is truly despicable. I fully condemn this gruesome act and urge the mainstream leaders within the Syrian opposition to denounce those responsible. “As the U.S. moves forward in providing aid to the Syrian rebels, we must take precautions to ensure that any assistance we provide does not fall into the hands of fringe, extremist groups with ulterior motives. If this attack was indeed committed at the hands of Al-Qaeda linked militants, then it serves as a reminder that we must remain vigilant in our quest to combat Islamic terrorism and work closely with our trusted allies in the Middle East to bring peace to the region. “My thoughts and prayers remain with the family and friends of Father François Murad, and as a member of the Catholic community, I join in mourning his loss.
06.27.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-SI/Brooklyn) renewed his call for Attorney General Eric Holder to bring criminal charges against Jon Corzine for the collapse of MF Global and the theft of $1.6 billion in customer funds, citing evidence of perjury. Rep. Grimm’s announcement comes in light of today’s news that the CFTC has filed a civil suit against Jon Corzine and Edith O’Brien over MF Global. The civil suit provides further evidence that Jon Corzine lied to Congress on his role in MF Global’s collapse. lRep. Grimm issued the following statement: “I am renewing my call for Attorney General Eric Holder to bring criminal charges against Jon Corzine regarding the collapse of MF Global and the theft of $1.6 billion in customer funds. Today’s civil action by the CFTC against both Mr. Corzine and Edith O’Brien reveal that there was in fact knowledge that customer funds were at risk – evidence that contradicts Jon Corzine’s testimony in Congress. “This civil suit is a good first step which could result in severe monetary penalties as well as a lifetime industry ban. However, these possible punishments are not enough. Only criminal charges would carry a prison sentence, and today’s CFTC complaint shows clear evidence of perjury. “Attorney General Eric Holder has failed to do his job by refusing to bring up criminal charges against Jon Corzine. There is growing proof that Mr. Corzine perjured himself before multiple House and Senate Committees as evidenced by numerous recorded phone calls prior to MF Global’s bankruptcy referenced in today’s civil complaint by the CFTC. It’s time for the Attorney General to stop protecting one of its political loyalists and stand up for the victims of MF Global by bringing Jon Corzine to justice.” The CFTC complaint filed today lays out several instances that contradict statements Jon Corzine made in testimony before Congress, as well as demonstrate that Jon Corzine did in fact have knowledge that MF Global customer funds were unlawfully transferred from segregated accounts. One example is found on pages 23-24 of the CFTC’s complaint and is posted below. Rep. Grimm – a former FBI agent tasked with investigating financial crimes and current member of the House Financial Services – first brought up potential perjury charges against Corzine when questioning a DOJ staffer in a FSC hearing. Watch the video from March 22, 2013. In addition, on May 14, 2012, Rep. Grimm led 64 House colleagues in sending a letter to A.G. Holder calling for a special counsel to investigate MF Global. ### Corzine’s Statements to Congress vs. CFTC Complaint In 2011, Jon Corzine gave the following statements to Congress: "I simply do not know where the money is." -made in written and verbal testimony before House and Senate Agriculture Committees (Dec. 7, 2011; Dec. 13, 2011) "I was stunned when I was told on Sunday October 30, 2011, that MF Global could not account for many hundreds of millions of dollars of client money.” - written testimony to Senate Agriculture Committee (Dec 13, 2011) "I did not, however, generally involve myself in the mechanics of the clearing and settlement of trades, or in the movement of cash and collateral." - written testimony to Senate Agriculture Committee (Dec. 13, 2011) Today’s CFTC Complaint against Jon Corzine and Edith O’Brien states: “On the afternoon of October 27, Corzine spoke to Employee #1 on a recorded telephone line to strategize how they could use customer segregated funds to induce JPM to clear MF Global’s trades more quickly: Corzine: We have a money management account at Chase, if my memory serves me Employee #1: Yeah, it’s the JP Morgan Trust account, but that’s cash seg for clients -- it has nothing to do with greasing our wheels for Chase to move. Corzine: I understand but you put it in a tri-party, and then once the securities have started moving, then you move it back to the, um --this is the same thing we did last night, they left it in the tri-party, the seg money.”
06.24.2013	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-NY) announced the 100-day countdown to the deadline for first responders and other survivors to file claims for economic loss with the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund (VCF). The deadline is October 3, 2013. Rep. Grimm also expressed his support for a public awareness campaign launched today with New York Committee for Occupational Safety and Health (NYCOSH) and other community advocates. The outreach campaign will help raise awareness of the expanded healthcare benefits available under the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act. Rep. Grimm was invited to today’s press conference on the topic at 7 World Trade Center, but was unable to attend. “Today marks the 100-day countdown to register for economic losses with the Victim Compensation Fund,” said Rep. Grimm. “Benefits remain available, but only for those are registered. That is why it is so important for anyone eligible to act now and register without delay. I am pleased to join my colleagues in the New York delegation in raising awareness of this deadline and the expanded health services provided under the Zadroga Act.” “As a representative of many of our heroic first responders – and as a 9/11 first responder myself – I know how important these benefits are to those who have suffered loss or fallen ill from exposure to the toxins of the dust cloud and pile,” added Grimm. “In Congress, I have fought hard to strengthen the 9/11 health program and expand the coverage. Thanks to this program, our first responders, and other survivors who have fallen ill, are eligible for medical services like screenings and treatment programs. I encourage all who are eligible to take advantage of the health services and compensation provided.” Under the World Trade Center Health Program created by the Zadroga Act, tens of thousands of people are eligible for free medical exams, treatment and medication. Those eligible include persons who lived and or worked in Lower Manhattan and Downtown Brooklyn for one year after the 9/11 attacks and those who were exposed to toxins at The World Trade Center, The Pentagon and in Shanksville, PA. In the twelve years since the attacks, many who were exposed to toxins at or near these sites have been diagnosed with respiratory disease, cancer and other health complications. For more information and to apply for the WTC Health Program, visit www.nycosh.org/wtc.
06.22.2013	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-S.I./Brooklyn) joined Staten Island constituents for a press conference calling on the City to waive water fees for Sandy survivors who have used little or no water in their damaged homes. Even if a home uses no water during a billing period, homeowners are subject to a minimum charge from the City of $1.19 per day. The City is just starting to send out “suspended” bills now, and residents are outraged to find they owe hundreds of dollars (over $300 in some cases) for water they never used at a house they are currently unable to live in. At a time when Staten Islanders are waiting in limbo – whether it be for buyouts, flood maps, or more federal assistance – Rep. Grimm is calling on the city to waive these ludicrous fees until homeowners get back in their homes. “First I was frustrated and now I’m angry,” said Rep. Grimm. “People are at their wit’s end. Those displaced by Sandy simply want to get back in their homes and back to their lives, but every day they tell me about another obstacle, delay, or fee. Just because someone’s home wasn’t completely swept away or demolished, doesn’t mean they can live in it. It also doesn’t mean they should have to pay these ludicrous water fees. The policy should be that if you’re not in your home because of Sandy, then all fees will be waived until you move back in.” Homeowners received notices that water bills would be “suspended” until June, though charges would accrue. Homeowners are now seeing the accumulation of those fees when the bills arrive. A suspension is not a waiver, which is why Rep. Grimm is calling on the city to waive these fees. See the letter below sent to the NYC Water Board: June 22, 2013 The Honorable Alan Moss, Chairman New York City Water Board Department of Environmental Protection 59-17 Junction Boulevard, 8th Floor Flushing, NY 11373 Dear Chairman Moss: I am writing to you today in hopes of resolving an issue affecting constituents in my district who were impacted by Superstorm Sandy. I have heard a number of residents express concern at having received substantial water bills for homes in which there has been little or literally no water usage since the storm. In some cases, the homeowners would have had difficult accessing water service even if they wanted to due to the extensive damage to their home. It is my understanding that some of these fees can be attributed to NYC Water Board policies which define service as simply having access to the city’s water main, meaning that customers are subject to a minimum daily charge of $1.19 even if there is no water usage. Given the unique difficulties presented for so many residents of the City, I strongly encourage the Water Board to take action that will lift some of this economic burden off the backs of our Sandy-impacted residents who face the prospect of paying the City for services they are not using while still waiting for assistance from the Build it Back program. As you certainly know, many are facing maxed-out credit cards and drained pension and bank accounts as they work to get their lives back on track. A waiver of the daily $1.19 charge and other fees associated with recovery until people are back in their homes could help lighten their already heavy load and demonstrate once again our unwavering commitment to helping Sandy-impacted residents back on their feet. Your prompt consideration of this request is truly appreciated. Sincerely, Michael G. Grimm Member of Congress
06.20.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Michael Grimm (R-SI/Brooklyn) teamed up with Rep. Chris Gibson (R-NY) in introducing the Gibson-Grimm Olive Oil Import Tax Repeal Amendment to the Farm Bill, which would strike the olive oil tax and prevent costly regulations. Without this amendment, New Yorkers, and all Americans, will be hit with higher prices everywhere - whether they’re buying olive oil for their small business, shopping at the grocery store, or eating at a restaurant. In addition to keeping prices stable for consumers, the Gibson-Grimm amendment will protect local jobs and an historic New York industry. The amendment passed 343-81-1. “This provision in the Farm Bill is nothing more than an attempt to allow 2% of the domestic olive oil market to impose a hidden tax on the remaining 98% – raising the cost of olive oil for consumers and costing New York jobs. If this tax is not repealed, the effects will be felt throughout New York, in stores like Pastosa Ravioli and Gino’s restaurant in Brooklyn. I applaud my colleagues for supporting the Gibson-Grimm amendment which repeals this burdensome tax and protects the olive oil industry that is crucial to New York’s economy,” said Rep. Grimm. “This olive oil tax is ludicrous! Given all the taxes and fees New Yorkers have to deal with every day, it’s adding insult to injury to increase the cost of imported olive oil. The vast majority of my customers want olive oil from Italy, and I know they will be outraged to learn of a new tax on something that is so important to their daily diet. It’s just another way the government is trying to stick its hands in our pocket,” said Vincent D’Antuono Sr., owner of Pastosa Ravioli at 764 Forest Avenue. “This tax is going to kill whatever olive oil business we have. It’s going to hurt our business,” said Leonard Pesce, owner of La Bella Marketplace, which has locations in Staten Island and Dyker Heights. New York is a leader in olive oil imports. In 2011, 135,571 tons of olive oil were imported into New York out of the approximately 300,000 tons imported into the United States that year. That’s almost half in New York alone. The Gibson-Grimm Amendment strikes Section 10010 of the Farm Bill, which allows a marketing order on olive oil to be applied to imports. The proponents argue the marketing order is necessary to impose quality standards and police fraud on imported olive oil, but a marketing order would be incredibly expensive and utterly ineffective at imposing quality controls. Instead, it would act as a steep tax on olive oil imports, hurting small olive oil importing businesses and jeopardizing thousands of jobs all over the country while raising the price of olive oil for consumers. As applied to imports, a marketing order requires every lot of the imported product to be inspected for fidelity to the marketing order standard. That is perhaps reasonable when the imported product is something like a fruit or vegetable, where the United States imports far less than it produces domestically, and a quick inspection could reveal the variety of fruit and ensure the product is in proper condition for sale. For olive oil, however, the United States imports between 98 and 99 percent of the olive oil Americans consume. In its official score, CBO identifies the private sector mandate and states: “Imports would have to be inspected to ensure compliance with the standards of such a marketing order. Because 15,000 to 20,000 lots of olive oil are imported annually, the costs of those inspections could amount to tens of millions of dollars per year, if a marketing order is established.” Section 10010 would be completely ineffective at policing fraud and mislabeling, as it does not address any activity that occurs domestically or past the point of inspection Watch Rep. Grimm’s floor speech here.
06.20.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Late Wednesday night, on June 19th, the U.S. House of Representatives passed an amendment to the Farm Bill reauthorization, offered by Reps. Joe Crowley (NY-14) and Michael Grimm (NY-11), to increase availability of kosher food in emergency food supplies. The Crowley-Grimm amendment requires the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to target, label, and track distribution of kosher and halal food, in order to help food banks and pantries meet the needs of populations with religious dietary restrictions. “Superstorm Sandy was a harsh reminder as to why it is essential that our food banks carry halal and kosher food,” said Rep. Grimm. “After the storm, my staff worked with constituents and other groups to help coordinate preparation of Halal meals by families in Bay Ridge and with a Rabbi who was able to get a supply of kosher food for Orthodox Jewish families in need. By ensuring food banks can obtain this food in advance, we can remain prepared for any situation and ensure that all members of the community are provided for, no matter what their dietary needs.” “In these tough economic times, food banks and pantries are playing a critical role in serving our most vulnerable communities by helping to ensure they have access to nutritious meals and food. However, many pantries face an uphill battle in trying to meet the needs of observant families because they have difficulty identifying and obtaining kosher food,” said Rep. Crowley. “Our amendment will make it easier for food banks to provide kosher and halal foods and, in turn, ensure no family has to choose between abiding by their religious beliefs or having enough food to eat.” “Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty is particularly grateful to Reps. Joe Crowley and Michael Grimm for their leadership on the Kosher/Halal Amendment to the Farm Bill. In New York City, where nearly one million Jewish people live, more than 300,000 live at or below the poverty level and another 175,000 live in near poverty. Each month Met Council’s kosher food pantry network across the City provides food packages for 15,000 households. Our food rescue and Masbia soup kitchens feed hundreds more each week. Yet we are limited because of a system that does not consider kosher food a priority in cities like New York. We are hopeful that thousands more food insecure Americans who observe the Muslim or Jewish faith will greatly benefit from this amendment,” said William E. Rapfogel, CEO/Executive Director of Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty. “The Jewish community is committed to ensuring basic human rights for everyone, including the right to eat. This amendment would see that in guaranteeing access to food for vulnerable Americans, we are doing so in a way that respects diversity. All Americans deserve quality and nutritious meals, regardless of their culture or religion,” said Jared Feldman, Vice President and Washington Director, Jewish Council for Public Affairs. The Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP) at the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) provides food through states to local emergency food providers – such as food banks, pantries, soup kitchens, and shelters. Food banks then combine these resources with private donations of food and funds, forming a public-private partnership. Currently, USDA does not make a specific effort to purchase kosher and halal foods, either by choosing types of food known to be kosher or halal or by choosing from manufacturers who are certified kosher or halal. Some food purchased by USDA may be kosher or halal, but this food is not tracked through the distribution process or labeled as kosher/halal on the list of available food for food bank operators to review. The Crowley-Grimm amendment would address this concern by directing the Secretary of Agriculture to: Increase efforts to purchase food from manufacturers with a kosher or halal certification if the kosher and halal food purchased is cost neutral as compared to other food. This will ensure that when kosher and halal food is available for the same price as non-kosher or non-halal foods, USDA considers choosing the kosher and halal options without compromising the purchasing power of the program. Improve the labeling of TEFAP’s food list so that kosher and halal food bank operators are able to identify which food options they want to obtain that will then be distributed to the populations they serve. The House is expected to vote on final passage of the Farm Bill later today.
06.12.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm’s (R-NY) Business Risk Mitigation and Price Stabilization Act, H.R. 634, passed the House 411 to 12. This bipartisan bill clarifies that true derivatives end-users are exempt from the margin requirements applied by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to many derivatives contracts. This exemption will allow end-users to continue to use derivatives to maintain low and stable prices for consumers and will free up capital that can be used to create jobs and keep American companies competitive. “This bill is about creating jobs and removing obstacles to business growth that have been imposed by over-reaching and burdensome regulations,” said Rep. Grimm. “By removing the unnecessary margin posting requirements, we can help our businesses free up capital that can be used to hire new employees, keep prices low for American consumers, and help our companies remain competitive in the global economy. I thank my colleagues in the House for once again giving their overwhelming support for this bill, and I urge the Senate to act without delay.” True end-users are companies that use derivatives to manage an actual business risk - generally to hedge against fluctuating prices, currency rates, or interest rates - and not to speculate. This bill clarifies Congressional intent of Dodd-Frank by exempting end-users that use derivatives to hedge legitimate business risk from posting margin. Forcing true end-users to post margin can have several negative consequences: 1) the costs of hedging could be become so high that they stop hedging, resulting in a detrimental rise in prices for consumers; 2) capital will be restricted that would otherwise be used for job creation or reinvestment to make American companies more competitive in the global economy; and 3) high costs of hedging could drive business overseas to foreign derivatives markets. H.R. 634 eliminates the margin requirement and thus helps prevent these negative consequences from occurring. Rep. Grimm introduced the bill with Reps. Gary Peters (D-MI), Austin Scott (R-GA), and Mike McIntyre (D-NC). Reps. Grimm and Peters serve on the House Financial Services Committee, and Reps. Scott and McIntyre serve on the House Agriculture Committee. Both committees have jurisdiction over this legislation. This legislation passed the House last Congress on March 26, 2012 with a vote of 370-24. It cleared the Agriculture Committee on March 20, 2013, and the Financial Services Committee on May 7, 2013. Click here to watch the video of Rep. Grimm’s floor speech today in support of his bill. ###
06.06.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) was joined by Reps. James P. McGovern (D-MA), Peter T. King (R-NY), and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) in introducing the Transit Parity Act. The bipartisan bill will maintain tax credit parity for drivers and public transportation commuters. Without the fix, commuters taking public transportation will see their tax benefit cut almost in half to $125, while those who drive and park will maintain the current $245 tax benefit. “With rising gas prices and highly congested streets, we should be encouraging New Yorkers to use more public transportation, not push them back into their cars. Without parity, we create an incentive to drive and put an unfair financial burden on New York City’s hard-working families and residents who rely daily on public transportation. It is only fair that the pre-tax benefit be made permanently equal, no matter how one commutes to work, and that is why I have introduced the Transit Parity Act,” said Rep. Grimm. “I have long been a proponent of making tax benefit parity for transit commuters a permanent part of the tax code. I am pleased to join with my colleagues in this new, bipartisan legislative effort. It’s good for workers and for their employers. Mass transit benefits our environment, reduces wear and tear on our roads and bridges, eases traffic congestion and saves energy. We must continue to look for ways to make commuting by transit as affordable and attractive as commuting by car,” said Rep. McGovern. “Transit parity provides an incentive for millions of working Americans to use mass transportation, which reduces our dependence on foreign oil and eases traffic congestion on our roads. I commend Representative Grimm for introducing this critical legislation and look forward to continue working with my colleagues on this matter,” said Rep. King. “A system where workers have access to myriad transportation options creates more livable, healthy, and productive communities. By helping protect commuters’ choices, and preserving equity between those who drive and those who take transit or vanpool, we can avoid a tax increase on millions of families, and continue to give workers the option to use a transportation mode that increases economic productivity, reduces congestion, and is friendlier to the environment,” said Rep. Blumenauer. On January 1, 2014, almost 3 million of America’s commuters will face a tax increase unless Congress acts. Transportation is the second largest household expense for American families, and currently Congress provides a tax credit to commuters to help account for parking and transit costs. However, without congressional action, on January 2th, the cost for those who use the transit benefit will practically double. While the parking benefit will remain at $245 a year, the transit benefit will drop to $125, leaving families and commuters with up to $1,440 a year in additional tax burden. Under existing federal law, employers can offer their employees an option of up to $245/month in pre-tax parking or transit benefits. This tax credit directly benefits American commuters and their families. Businesses have also enjoyed a tax break from this commuter benefit. In 2010, participating transit riders across the country saved their bosses about $300 million in payroll taxes. In addition to increasing commuters taxes, if the transit benefit reverts to $125 while the parking benefits stays at $245, the federal tax code will distort individual’s choices in a way that increases congestion, time spent in traffic, and wear and tear on the roads. The Transit Parity Act equalizes the transit and parking benefits by capping both at $220. This makes the change deficit neutral, and ensures that our tax code is fair and applies equally to all consumers. ###
06.05.2013	WASHINGTON – Following months of outrage from nearly every corner of the aviation community, and with an amendment looming tonight to block the policy, the Transportation Safety Administration (TSA) today abandoned its proposed policy to allow small knives into the passenger cabins of planes. Reps. Michael Grimm (R-NY) and Ed Markey (D-Mass.) have gained growing bipartisan support for their “No Knives on Planes” amendment to the Homeland Security Appropriations Act, that is set to be voted on tonight. Ahead of that vote, TSA head John Pistole finally acquiesced to the outcry and groundswell of opposition in Congress and cancelled the proposed plan. “Today, our calls to keep knives off planes have been heard!” said Rep. Grimm. “TSA’s decision to uphold the knife ban is not only smart policy, but will ensure that we continue to maintain the highest levels of safety for passengers and flight crews. In a post-9/11 world, we must always put safety first, and I commend the TSA for reversing its irresponsible decision for one that is smart and prudent.” “This is a victory for every single person who sets foot on a plane, and a reaffirmation that the government listens to the people,” said Rep. Markey. “The bi-partisan effort to stop this rule change, and the grassroots movement among pilots, flight attendants, law enforcement and TSA screeners, was successful because this rule change was wrong from the start. I commend TSA Administrator Pistole for listening to the opposition to this policy, and for having the courage to reverse course.” TSA originally proposed the rule change in March of 2013, expanding the list of accepted items to small knives, golf clubs, small baseball bats, and other items. Reps. Markey and Grimm immediately opposed the policy. Days after the proposed change, Markey and Grimm introduced legislation to eliminate the policy. The policy was eventually opposed by the major union representing pilots, flight attendants, TSA screeners, law enforcement agents, and by many of the major airlines. Reps. Grimm and Markey still plan to introduce their amendment this evening to ensure that there will not be another reversal in the TSA’s position regarding knives on planes. The “No Knives on Planes” amendment prohibits the use of funds appropriated in this bill from being used to implement changes to the list of sharp objects prohibited by TSA. In essence, it will add an extra level of protection to block the use of funds to lift the ban on knives on planes. ###
05.24.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Just in time for Memorial Day, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-SI/Brooklyn) has introduced H.Res.235, to designate March 29th as Vietnam Veterans Day. On March 29, 1973, the last 2,500 troops were withdrawn from South Vietnam, thus ending the military involvement in what is now the longest war in United States history. “As a Marine combat veteran of the first Gulf War, I have a strong connection with our nation’s veterans, both those of our most recent conflicts and those whose history we must never forget,” said Rep. Grimm. “In the effort to commemorate those who served honorably to protect our great nation, I was proud to re-introduce this resolution encouraging support for the declaration of March 29th as Vietnam Veterans Day. All those who served during the Vietnam War and and their families have earned the appreciation and respect of our nation and its citizens. Now is the time to deliver a long overdue thank you to these brave men and women with the establishment of March 29th as Vietnam Veterans Day.” The legislation was brought to Rep. Grimm’s attention in a 2011 meeting by a Staten Island veteran, Lester Modelowitz, who served in Vietnam 1967-68 in the 2nd Battalion 94th Artillery. Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ) is an original cosponsor of the resolution. This is the second Congress that Rep. Grimm has introduced the resolution. The text of the resolution is below: H. RES. 235 Expressing support for designation of March 29 as Vietnam Veterans Day. RESOLUTION Expressing support for designation of March 29 as Vietnam Veterans Day. Whereas 39 years ago, on March 29, 1973, the last 2,500 troops were withdrawn from South Vietnam thus ending military involvement in what is now the longest war in United States history; Whereas 38 years ago, on March 29, 1974, was declared Vietnam Veterans Day by Presidential order with the support of Congress; Whereas the 58,195 honorable and brave souls who fought and died during the Vietnam War, ones who are missing, and those who died since from the consequences of that war, deserve the eternal gratitude and respect of this Nation; Whereas March 29, 2012, was declared Vietnam Veterans Day by Presidential Proclamation with the support of Congress on the eve of the 50th anniversary commemoration of the beginning of the Vietnam War; Whereas the men and women who served with dedication, honor, and pride during the Vietnam War, both in country and in support of those in harm's way as well as those protecting our freedoms at home and throughout other parts of the world at that time, deserve the eternal gratitude and respect of this Nation; Whereas the families whose loved ones gave their lives for our country during the Vietnam War, deserve the eternal gratitude and respect of this Nation; Whereas the families of those men and women who came home with the physical and emotional wounds of the Vietnam War and committed to a lifetime of care and support for their loved one, deserve the eternal gratitude and respect of this Nation; Whereas the fellow citizens who stood by and supported the families of the fallen as well as the Vietnam veterans who returned and their families, without reservation and with loving care and respect, deserve the eternal gratitude and respect of this Nation; Whereas those professionals and volunteers who committed themselves to the loving care and healing of the bodily and emotionally wounded from the Vietnam War at home and have already the utmost gratitude of those they cared for and of their families, deserve the eternal gratitude and respect of this Nation; Whereas the men and women of the allies who served with dedication, honor, and pride alongside the Nation's defenders during the Vietnam War, both in country and in support of those in harm's way as well as those protecting our freedoms and throughout other parts of the world at that time, deserve the eternal gratitude and respect of this Nation; Whereas this expression of gratitude and respect to the Vietnam Veterans and their families will also give hope and assurance, to current and future generations of the Nation's defenders and their respective families, that their sacrifice and service will not be forgotten and deserving of a distinct recognition of the eternal gratitude and respect of this Nation; Whereas this expression of gratitude and respect for the honorable sacrifice and service by the Vietnam Veterans, past as well as current and future generations of the Nation's defenders and their respective families, needs to remain in the hearts and thoughts of fellow citizens forever, passed on from generation to generation; and Whereas numerous States have already chosen March 29 as Vietnam Veterans Day by legislation and many more States have joined with individual events to honor and thank these brave Veterans and their families for their service to the Nation: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives supports the designation of Vietnam Veterans Day.
05.23.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Reps. Michael Grimm (R-NY) and Dan Lipinski (D-IL) announce the formation of the Congressional Public Transportation Caucus aimed at addressing issues facing the country’s public transportation systems, including rail, light rail, bus rapid transit, and traditional bus service. This bipartisan Caucus will provide a forum for members of Congress to engage in constructive dialogue on the challenges and needs of mass transit agencies across the country as increasing demand and decreasing funding are putting unprecedented pressure on America’s public transportation systems. “New York City has the largest public transit system in the nation – transporting millions of commuters each day by bus, rail, and ferry,” Rep. Grimm said. “A strong public transport system is crucial to our economy and our livelihood, which is why it must be maintained and updated to meet growing demand and ensure the highest levels of safety. Unfortunately, there is currently a gap between where our public transportation infrastructure needs to be and where it is today, which is why this caucus is so important. As co-chair of the Congressional Public Transportation Caucus, I will support efforts to improve New York City’s public transportation system, while ensuring that we are not footing the bill with outrageous bridge tolls! “Public transportation is vital to people from all walks of life in communities all across northeastern Illinois. Buses, trains, and light rail that run safely and reliably reduce congestion on our roads, improve travel times across all modes, cut down on air pollution, and make our communities more attractive places to live, work, and own businesses,” said Rep. Lipinski, who sits on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. “Maintaining and improving our public transportation systems must be a part of the solution to creating jobs at home and ensuring our competitiveness in the global marketplace. I look forward to joining Congressman Grimm in calling attention to these issues as co-chair of the new Congressional Public Transportation Caucus.” The America Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), in its annual report card on America’s infrastructure, gave the country’s transit infrastructure a “D” grade. Yet the impact from investing in our public transportation infrastructure would be substantial, not just for improving safety and reliability, but for creating jobs. Every dollar spent on transit generates an economic return of at least 4 to 1. For every $1 billion of capital spending on transit, 24,000 jobs are created, according to a report by the Economic Development Research Group. Additionally, transit has been shown to increase nearby property values and relieve the economic costs and pollution caused by traffic congestion. “From Pittsburgh, PA, to Everett, WA, to Detroit, MI, to Charleston, SC, 80 percent of transit systems have had to cut service or increase fares since the recession began. Yet public transportation ridership in the U.S. is the highest it’s been in decades and even more people would use it if they could,” said Larry Hanley, International President of the Amalgamated Transit Union. “We praise Congressmen Lipinski and Grimm for creating this caucus to address this growing demand. It's time for Congress to recognize that public transit creates good jobs, delivers customers to businesses, and helps create a clean environment. There is literally nothing more effective in getting our economy moving than mass transit.”
05.22.2013	WASHINGTON– Today, Reps. Michael G. Grimm (R-SI/Brooklyn) and Ed Markey (D-MA) led 145 members of the House of Representatives in sending a letter to the head of the Transportation Security Administration commending the agency for delaying a previously announced rule change that would have allowed small knives to be brought onto planes. The signatories also ask the TSA to keep the current rules in place that prohibit knives and other potential weapons from being brought into plane passenger cabins. The bipartisan letter has enough signatories to fill a typical Boeing 737. Reps. Markey and Grimm have introduced legislation to freeze the TSA prohibited items rules so that such knives are not permitted to be carried aboard passenger planes. “We have heard from a host of stakeholders on this issue, and the consensus is simple: no knives on planes. We are all in agreement that it is not only irresponsible but dangerous to change this policy. The reality is that we live in a post-9/11 world, and we can never be too careful when it comes to protecting the safety of our flight crew and passengers. Keeping knives off our planes is a smart decision and one that should be upheld,” said Rep. Grimm. The letter states, “Over the last two months, we have heard from flight attendants, air marshals, pilots, passengers, TSA screeners and airlines who are unequivocal in their unified view that allowing knives to be brought into the cabin of passenger planes is dangerous, unnecessary, and irresponsible. Putting TSA agents in charge of judging which knives are permissible and which must be confiscated will also decrease security and increase wait times for passengers. We urge you to keep the rule simple: No knives on planes.” Under intense pressure from flight attendants, pilots, law enforcement and others, TSA last month delayed implementation of the rule to allow for additional stakeholders to provide comment.
05.20.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) joined Reps. Bill Pascrell (R-NJ), Bill Cassidy M.D. (R-LA), Cedric Richmond (D-LA) and Senator David Vitter (R-LA) to announce the creation of the bi-cameral, bi-partisan Congressional Home Protection Caucus. Rep. Steven Palazzo (R-MS), who visited Staten Island in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy, will serve as vice-chairman. “Those impacted by Superstorm Sandy have been faced with an onslaught of uncertainty from another round of FEMA map revisions to the potential for skyrocketing flood insurance rates. There has to be a better way. As a Congress we must do more to find solutions that make flood insurance more affordable and accessible, in order to help homeowners protect their greatest investment. As a co-chair of the Congressional Home Protection Caucus, I will work with my colleagues on common-sense reforms that bring more certainty and stability to homeowners in Staten Island and Brooklyn, and throughout the nation,” said Rep. Grimm. "As New Jersey continues to rebuild from Hurricane Sandy's devastation, my priority will continue to be ensuring victims have the resources they need to rebuild, including readily available and affordable flood insurance. I've spent my career fighting to mitigate the persistent flooding problem in my district, so I look forward to working with my colleagues in a bipartisan manner to protect homeowners and their families from further devastation," said Rep. Pascrell. “Flood insurance is critical not only to South Louisiana but to coastal communities across the country. This is why I am working to make it both available and affordable. The Biggert-Waters Act was the only way to make it available. Unfortunately, it has been implemented in a way by FEMA to make the insurance unaffordable, that’s why Senator Vitter and Congressmen Richmond, Grimm, Pascrell and Palazzo and I started the Congressional Home Protection Caucus, with the express goal of promoting market-based solutions to make flood insurance affordable for coastal communities. This bi-partisan coalition will fight for real, common-sense solutions to protect home owners and their investments,” said Rep. Cassidy. “I’ve been actively talking with folks across Louisiana and one thing is clear – folks are outraged by the magnitude of the potential rate increases. One of my top focuses in the Senate right now is working for a solution. We must make sure that people who have been following the rules aren’t priced out of their homes because their flood insurance rates increase so dramatically. The primary focus of the Home Protection Caucus will be to increase awareness of the need for Congress to immediately address flood insurance increases and bring voices together to work towards that solution,” said Senator Vitter. “We have a responsibility and obligation to be fierce advocates for the families in the gulf coast and communities along the northeastern coast. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure that we prioritize effective solutions that protect home owners who have already endured a great deal,” said Rep. Richmond. For many Americans, homeownership is their single biggest investment. The first priority of the Congressional Home Protection Caucus will be to ensure the promotion of market-based solutions that enhance the accessibility and affordability of flood insurance for all Americans. Biggert-Waters continued the National Flood Insurance Program and made it accessible to homeowners, however implementation of this Act has largely made it unaffordable to some homeowners. The result has devalued the investments made in properties and homes; radically increasing the cost of flood insurance for policyholders. The Congressional Home Protection Caucus believes we need transparency in the development of FIRMs that FEMA uses to assign risk in flood zone areas and we need stability in the real estate market as the investment in homeownership is in danger of deteriorating as a result of dramatic increases in premiums.
05.17.2013	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-SI/Brooklyn) sent the following letter to the NYC Parks Commissioner urging Parks to work with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to use the sand dredged from Great Kills Harbor to replenish the storm-ravaged beaches along Staten Island’s coastline. “When it comes to our recovery efforts, we have to think creatively to maximize resources and stretch every federal dollar to its full potential. The Army Corps of Engineers is already scheduled to dredge Great Kills Harbor, so it would be foolish not to capitalize on the abundance of sand and use it to replenish our storm-ravaged shorelines,” said Rep. Grimm. “NYC Parks has already identified two areas near the harbor for beach replenishment; however, it is projected that there will be an abundance of sand remaining. It would be a missed opportunity if we didn’t take advantage of the excess sand and available equipment onsite, which is why I am calling on Parks to work with the Corps in order to use every salvageable bit of dredged sand to replenish as many coastal areas in Staten Island as possible,” continued Rep. Grimm. According to a public notice issued by the Corps, in fall 2013, Great Kills Harbor will undergo routine maintenance dredging with subsequent placement of the dredged material on portions of the eroded shoreline of Staten Island. Crescent Beach and Wolfe’s Pond Park are the only two identified sites. In anticipation of an abundance of sand, Rep. Grimm is asking that the additional dredged sand be used to replenish other vulnerable areas, such as Midland Beach, New Dorp and Tottenville. ### The text of the letter is below: May 17, 2013 The Honorable Veronica M. White Commissioner New York City Parks Department The Arsenal Central Park 830 Fifth Avenue New York, NY 10065 Dear Commissioner White: I write with regard to the abundance of sand expected to be produced by the dredging of Great Kills Harbor by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (the Corps). As you know, the Corps has proposed to undertake maintenance dredging of Great Kills Harbor and use the resulting dredged material to restore some of Staten Island’s eroded shoreline. It is my understanding that New York City Department of Parks and Recreation (Parks) already identified two prospective recipients of the sand – Crescent Beach and Wolfe’s Pond Park. However, these properties only have the capacity to accept no more than a third of what may be yielded by the dredging. Given the widespread damage done to our shoreline, it is imperative that we do everything we can to ensure the full allotment of sand is put to beneficial use on Staten Island. Furthermore, if the equipment is already in place to move sand to the two designated areas, it only makes sense to move sand to other areas in need at the same time. As we seek to stretch the value of each federal dollar, it would be foolish not to maximize resources or use this opportunity to replenish other eroded shorelines with the additional sand dredged from the harbor. There are a number of shoreline areas, including those along Midland Beach, New Dorp and Tottenville, that could be ideal candidates for restoration under this initiative, and I urge Parks to work with the Corps of Engineers to transport and place the additional dredged sand in these areas and other areas of need. I look forward to working with you and other stakeholders at the state and federal level on this important matter in the coming weeks. Sincerely, MICHAEL G. GRIMM Member of Congress
05.15.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night, Rep. Michael G. Grimm’s (R,C-NY) legislation, the National Blue Alert Blue Alert Act (H.R. 180) passed the House 406-2. This bipartisan bill would encourage and integrate a “Blue Alert” system throughout the United States in order to quickly disseminate information when a law enforcement officer is seriously injured or killed in the line of duty. “As a former FBI special agent, it is a privilege to have the House pass this important legislation, especially during Police Week,” said Rep. Grimm. “Every week should be Police Week, as we express our gratitude to the brave men and women of the NYPD who serve our great city under Commissioner Ray Kelly, and to all our nation’s law enforcement officers and agents. The National Blue Alert Act will enhance the safety of our communities, by allowing us to act quickly in apprehending suspects and make it clear to anyone who chooses to harm our nation’s law enforcement officers that they will be caught. Our law enforcement agents are the true heroes of our communities, and I applaud my colleagues for passing this important bill to protect them.” The Blue Alert system would work in a similar fashion to the “Amber Alert” system currently used to locate abducted children. It would be implemented by law enforcement agencies, and state and local governments to speed up the apprehension of criminals who seriously injure or kill local, state, or federal law enforcement officers. Currently, there is no national alert system to disseminate information to other law enforcement, the media, or the general public in regards to officers who have been injured or killed; however, many states have created a state-level blue alert system in an effort to better inform their local communities. H.R. 180 creates the national Blue Alert Program within the Department of Justice. Each year Congress authorizes funds under the COPS Technology Program, for technology and automated systems that help state and local law enforcement agencies prevent, respond to, and investigate crime. It directs the Department of Justice to designate a national coordinator for the program who will encourage states to develop Blue Alert plans, establish voluntary guidelines, and develop protocols for suspect apprehension. Rep. Grimm is a former FBI agent. The bill was introduced with Reps. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), David Reichert (R-WA), and Pedro Pierluisi (D-PR) who is a former Attorney General of Puerto Rico. The National Blue Alert Act has been endorsed by the Fraternal Order of Police, the Sergeant’s Benevolent Association, the National Sheriff's Association, the National Association of Police Officers, & the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association (FLEOA).
05.15.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-SI/Brooklyn) sent the attached letter to Gateway National Recreation Area Superintendent Linda Canzanelli asking that Sandy funds be used to help Nichols Marina rebuild 250 slips, something it may not have the funds to do if it is forced to rely on insurance money alone. “When Nichols Marina reopens, there should be a slip for every boater who returns,” said Grimm. “I fought hard in Congress to secure Sandy relief funds, and want every dollar to be maximized to meet the greatest need. In this case, it is only fitting that some of the Sandy relief funds designated for Gateway be used to fill in funding gaps, so that all 250 slips may be built. Nichols Marina is an integral part of the Great Kills neighborhood and essential to Staten Island’s boating community, which is why I have made rebuilding it and preserving it a top priority.” Under the temporary agreement between NPS and the marina operator, Marinas of the Future, Inc., the marina may rebuild to a maximum of 250 slips. If the Marina is forced only to use the approximate $1.2 million in insurance money to rebuild, it may fall short of the maximum number of slips. Last week, the Department of the Interior announced over $150 million in Sandy-related emergency assistance for Gateway National Recreation Area, and Rep. Grimm is requesting that a portion of the funds be used to make up the cost difference in order to ensure that all 250 boat slips are rebuilt. The text of the letter is below: The Honorable Linda Canzanelli Superintendent Gateway National Recreation Area 210 New York Avenue Staten Island, NY 10305 Dear Ms. Canzanelli: First, I would like to thank you and your staff for your efforts to rebuild the many areas of Gateway which were damaged by Superstorm Sandy. I know that Gateway personnel, some of whom were personally affected by Sandy themselves, have worked tirelessly to restore the national treasure that is Gateway, and I truly appreciate it. I do, however, want to highlight an issue of concern which I believe requires immediate clarification. As you are certainly aware, the U.S. Department of Interior announced last week the release of over $150 Million in Sandy-related emergency assistance for the Gateway National Recreation Area. Included in this funding package was $9.2 million specifically dedicated to repairing storm damage at Great Kills Marina Slips, Moorings, and Docks. What needs clarification at the moment is the extent to which these funds will be used to rebuild the slips that will be made available to boaters later this year. It is my understanding that rebuilding the marina slips using only the concessionaire’s insurance money of approximately $1.2M may limit the number of boaters that can be accommodated when the marina re-opens later this year, as it could cover significantly fewer than the 250 slips that are permitted under the temporary concession agreement. If this turns out to be the case, I urge you to use Sandy emergency funding for the marina, in order to make up the cost difference. I remain available to work with the National Parks Service to ensure that boaters who used the marina prior to Sandy will have a slip available to them in the restored marina. Your prompt attention to this issue is most appreciated. Sincerely, Michael G. Grimm Member of Congress
05.14.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-SI/Brooklyn) issued the following statement in response to recent news about Benghazi, the IRS, and the seizure of AP reporters’ phone records: “President Obama’s legacy is going to be one tarnished by scandal after scandal. This president had an opportunity to unite our country and move it forward better and stronger. Instead, he brought Chicago-style politics to the White House and divided us as a nation. “Today this president continues to blame Republicans for politicizing Benghazi, when it is his very own administration that covered up the facts. He was slow to react to the IRS targeting conservative Tea Party groups, and today he denies knowledge of the Justice Department seizing the phone records of AP reporters. “The president claims to be in the dark on one event after another. What are they doing over there? Who’s accountable if it’s not the commander in chief? “Instead of a legacy of ‘hope and change,’ President Obama will be known for bringing Chicago-style politics to the White House. The most ‘transparent administration in history’ is actually the most secretive, deceptive, and divisive we’ve seen in modern times. This administration has misled the American people one too many times, and it’s time it is held accountable.” Rep. Grimm is a Marine combat veteran of the first Gulf War and served as a special agent in the FBI for over a decade.
05.09.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-Staten Island/Brooklyn) issued the following statement regarding the upcoming changes to Staten Island’s flood maps, and his push to release the revised maps by the end of May 2013: “There is growing concern and unrest regarding the news that flood maps will once again change, and rightly so. Homeowners want to stop the waiting game and start rebuilding, but cannot move forward without the new maps. A move from Zone V to A is significant – and could reduce the elevation requirements by several feet, as well as significantly lower mitigation costs. “On behalf of the many Staten Island homeowners who have reached out to my office, I am actively seeking clarity from FEMA and have been urging them to produce the new maps by the end of the month. My staff and I have remained in close contact with FEMA throughout the mapping process, and they are working quickly and diligently to collect the remaining data needed to produce the new maps. “It has been over six months since Sandy ravaged our coastline, and yet we remain in limbo waiting for guidance on zone changes and revised elevation standards. We can’t wait any longer for answers, which is why I have communicated to FEMA the need to release the new maps without delay.”
05.07.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm’s (R-NY) Business Risk Mitigation and Price Stabilization Act, H.R. 634, cleared a major hurdle with passage in the House Financial Services Committee 59-0, without amendment. It will now move to the House floor for a vote. This bipartisan bill clarifies that true derivatives end-users are exempt from the margin requirements applied by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to many derivatives contracts. This exemption will allow end-users to continue to use derivatives to maintain low and stable prices for consumers and will free up capital that can be used to create jobs and keep American companies competitive. “This bill is about creating jobs and removing obstacles to business growth that have been imposed by over-reaching and burdensome regulations,” said Rep. Grimm. “By removing the unnecessary margin posting requirements, we can help our businesses free up capital that can be used to hire new employees, keep prices low for American consumers, and help our companies remain competitive in the global economy. Last Congress, this legislation passed the House with overwhelming support, and I am pleased that it is again moving quickly, so that the Senate may act without delay.” True end-users are companies that use derivatives to manage an actual business risk - generally to hedge against fluctuating prices, currency rates, or interest rates - and not to speculate. This bill clarifies Congressional intent of Dodd-Frank by exempting end-users that use derivatives to hedge legitimate business risk from posting margin. Forcing true end-users to post margin can have several negative consequences: 1) the costs of hedging could be become so high that they stop hedging, resulting in a detrimental rise in prices for consumers; 2) capital will be restricted that would otherwise be used for job creation or reinvestment to make American companies more competitive in the global economy; and 3) high costs of hedging could drive business overseas to foreign derivatives markets. H.R. 634 eliminates the margin requirement and thus helps prevent these negative consequences from occurring. Rep. Grimm introduced the bill with Reps. Gary Peters (D-MI), Austin Scott (R-GA), and Mike McIntyre (D-NC). Reps. Grimm and Peters serve on the House Financial Services Committee, and Reps. Scott and McIntyre serve on the House Agriculture Committee. Both committees have jurisdiction over this legislation. This legislation passed the House last Congress on March 26, 2012 with a vote of 370-24. It cleared the Agriculture Committee on March 20, 2013, and the Financial Services Committee today. ###
05.07.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-SI/Brooklyn) applauded the Department of Interior’s (DOI) announcement today to release $475.25 million in emergency Hurricane Sandy disaster relief appropriations to 234 projects that will repair and rebuild parks, refuges and other Interior assets damaged by the storm. “I applaud the Department of the Interior for releasing $475.25 million in Sandy relief funds,” said Rep. Grimm. “This funding will move our national parks closer to a full recovery and bolster the progress we’ve made in repairing the damage to Gateway National Recreation Area. By restoring key sites like Miller Field and Nichols Marina, the families and residents of Staten Island will once again be able to safely enjoy the splendor of our borough’s recreational spaces. I remain committed to ensuring that these funds move quickly to expedite these critical recovery projects.” The full DOI strategic plan and a list of the approved projects are available here. Today’s funding is just a portion of the full $829.2 million ($786.7 million post-sequester) appropriated in the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act of 2013. Staten Island’s National Parks Construction Projects within Gateway National Park: $9.2 million to repair storm damage at Great Kills Marina Slips, Moorings, and Dock $6.6 million in repairs to visitor facilities at Great Kills Beach and Harbor Use Areas $3.4 million to repair damage to 187 acres at Miller Field Grounds $1.0 million to repair 11 housing units at Miller Field Staten Island Unit $4.7 million to repair storm damaged fencing and beach erosion to Ft. Wadsworth and Battery Weed $22.7 million to repair and remove damaged seawalls and other coastal structures at Jamaica Bay, Staten Island, and Sandy Hook
05.06.2013	NEW YORK, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-SI/Brooklyn) was joined by State Senator Marty Golden (R-Brooklyn) and Assemblywoman Nicole Malliotakis (R,C,I-Brooklyn/SI) in calling for a change to a federal policy that, if left unchanged, will limit available grant funding to Sandy survivors who turned down SBA loans to avoid going deeper into debt. This morning, Rep. Grimm sent a letter to HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan asking him to waive the policy or implement a viable alternative solution. The call is quickly gaining support from state and local officials. “Those impacted by Sandy have already suffered tremendous loss and accrued significant amounts of debt. Now many may lose access to grant funding for making a responsible decision to turn down a loan they simply cannot afford to pay back. It is simply unfair to punish those who have played by the rules. That is why I am calling for a viable solution that puts all Sandy survivors on a more equal playing field, and I am pleased to receive growing support for this effort from other leaders in Staten Island and Brooklyn,” said Rep. Grimm. "It has now been more than six months since Sandy, and the people of Gerritsen Beach, Sheepshead Bay and Manhattan Beach, are still looking for assistance in order to get their lives back on track. Many families lost everything and had to start over, rebuilding their homes, buying their cars, and so much more. To deny this funding is both absurd and wrong, and I would ask that Secretary Donovan, who knows New York City well, realize both the great needs and expenses still facing Sandy survivors,” said Senator Golden. "As survivors fight to recover from Sandy's destruction, economic realities have placed limits on what options they can afford. Many couldn't accept an SBA loan because they were simply unable to take on more debt. The current CDBG action plan would in essence force these people into a loan program that they aren't comfortable with, a red flag in any responsible lender-borrower relationship. Classifying declined SBA loans as 'unclaimed benefits' would be unfair and it is our hope that HUD will step in to rectify this,” said Assemblywoman Malliotakis. ### The text of Rep. Grimm’s letter can be found below: May 6, 2013 The Honorable Shaun Donovan Secretary U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development 451 Seventh Street, SW Washington, DC 20410-1000 Dear Secretary Donovan: New York City’s Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) - Disaster Recovery Plan is currently under review by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), and is expected to be approved in the near future. I have heard growing concerns regarding unclaimed Small Business Administration (SBA) loans that will count against the benefits that will be made available to homeowners recovering in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy. In order to help those impacted by the storm recover, I am asking you to use your waiver authority as Secretary of HUD, or an alternative method, to exclude unclaimed SBA loans from being classified as “received benefits” that will ultimately count against, and reduce, a homeowner’s recovery grant. It is my understanding that the guidelines put forth in the November 16, 2011 Federal Register Vol. 76, No. 221 are the basis for determining the amount of CDBG funds distributed by the City of New York to those eligible for recovery grants. The formula accounts for need minus benefits “received” (such as FEMA, insurance claims, and SBA loans) as well as benefits “available.” Available benefits include SBA loans applied for but not claimed. In contrast, these guidelines exclude private loans. I am asking that “available” SBA loans be treated like private loans, and thus be excluded from consideration when determining the value of the grant awarded. I am aware that the intent of the guidelines is to eliminate “fraud, abuse of funds, and duplication of benefits.” I agree wholeheartedly that we should be doing all we can to ensure that every dollar is used to meet the unmet needs of those impacted. My constituents, however, are not looking to scam the system; they are simply looking for assistance after they have lost everything in this devastating storm. Many impacted by the storm did exactly as they were told by officials. They registered for FEMA aid, filed claims with their insurance companies, and applied for SBA loans. As the recovery process moved forward, many found themselves deep in debt – paying a mortgage on a home they could no longer live in, while paying rent to keep a roof over their heads. Others drained their savings to pay for repairs. Some qualified for SBA loans, but refused them, to avoid going even deeper into debt. By counting these unclaimed SBA loans as a received benefit, we are creating a circumstance where people who played by the rules and maintained good credit will be punished with additional debt, while others remain eligible for a grant. Those who chose not to accept the SBA loan because they knew they could not afford it, acted prudently and responsibly by refusing to take on debt they could not pay back. That decision will now keep them from receiving aid that will be available to those who never applied for loans in the first place. This is simply unfair, which is why I am requesting your assistance to level the playing field for all who were impacted by the storm. Once again, I am respectfully requesting that you explore any options to exclude available SBA loans from being categorized as assistance received by homeowners. Should a simple waiver not be a viable option, I look forward to working with you on an alternative solution. Thank you again for your attention to this matter. I look forward to your prompt reply. Sincerely, MICHAEL G. GRIMM Member of Congress
04.26.2013	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-SI/Brooklyn) applauds today’s announcement of the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s approval of the NYS Community Development Block Grant – Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) Program, which clears the way for home buyout programs: “I applaud Secretary Donovan and Governor Cuomo for expediting the approval of the New York State CDBG-DR Action Plan. While the reach of the State plan is limited in NYC, these funds will allow us to move forward with a buyout plan in the hardest hit communities like Oakwood Beach. I have aggressively advocated for a buyout program, and continue to call for an expansive program that allows all eligible communities, from Midland Beach to Tottenville to benefit from these buyouts and acquisitions for redevelopment. “Superstorm Sandy presented us with the unfortunate reality that some areas along Staten Island’s coast are not sustainable for development, and should be returned to Mother Nature where they can serve as a buffer for future storms. Other areas simply need upgrading to meet more stringent mitigation and hurricane protection standards. It is within these areas where an acquisition for redevelopment would be appropriate. “As this first wave of CDBG funding begins flowing, I will continue to work closely with Governor Cuomo and Mayor Bloomberg to move forward with a buyout and redevelopment program. In doing so, we will strengthen the communities along our coastline and finally bring relief to homeowners who have been waiting six-months too long for answers.”
04.26.2013	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) and Richmond County District Attorney Daniel M. Donovan, Jr. are encouraging New Yorkers to participate in National Prescription Drug Take-Back Day, in which residents can turn in unwanted and expired prescription medication. The event will take place tomorrow, April 27, 2013, from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. The national day is sponsored by the U.S. Department of Justice’s Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) in order to combat prescription drug abuse. “Staten Island has the highest prescription drug abuse rates in NYC,” said Rep. Grimm. “This is truly an epidemic that is plaguing our communities, particularly among our youth. We must be proactive if we are going to combat abuse and the first step is to keep unwanted and expired prescription medications out of reach and safely disposed of, so that they are no longer accessible for abuse. National Take-Back Day allows everyone in the community to take action against this growing problem. I thank D.A. Dan Donovan for his ongoing commitment to fighting this epidemic on Staten Island and will continue to work with him as I lead efforts in Congress on the issue.” "When unused or expired prescription medication is left in a medicine cabinet, it creates an opportunity for someone to abuse that drug,” said D.A. Donovan. “The media is constantly reporting on the fatal outcomes of prescription pill addiction and my office continues to prosecute those who abuse prescription pills. The first step in combating prescription pill abuse is to eliminate easy access, and that begins at home. I encourage all Staten Islanders to participate in National Prescription Drug Take-Back Day and protect your loved ones by turning in unused pills." Staten Island is heavily impacted by prescription drug abuse, which is why Rep. Grimm has worked actively in Congress and with D.A. Donovan to combat it. Rep. Grimm is a member of the Congressional Prescription Drug Abuse Caucus and was a featured guest this month at the National Prescription Drug Summit in Orlando, Florida. He recently pushed the FDA to rule in favor of requiring generic OxContin to contain the same tamper-resistant properties that prevent it from being abused. To find a drop off location near you, please call 1-800-882-9539 or visit the DEA’s National Take-Back website. Local Prescription Drug Abuse Facts: From 2005-2010 in NYC, prescription opioid overdoses increased 30 percent. From 2005-2010 in Staten Island, prescription drug overdoses have increased 180% – the highest in NYC. Statistically, one Staten Islander dies from a prescription drug overdose every 12 days, which translates to 8.4 deaths per 100,000 residents. In Brooklyn, there are 2.4 deaths per 100,000. Prescription drug overdoses now outnumber traffic accidents and murder as a cause of accidental deaths in Staten Island.
04.24.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-SI/Brooklyn) congratulated Staten Island resident Mike ‘Loco’ Hoffman for being named a ‘Champion of Change’ by the White House. Hoffman was recognized for forming Yellow Boots and participated in the White House Forum on Sandy recovery today in Washington, D.C. “Anyone who was on the ground in the immediate aftermath of the storm knows it wasn’t the government that drove the recovery process, but community leaders like Mike ‘Loco’ who really stepped up to help their neighbors in times of need,” said Rep. Grimm. I couldn’t be more proud of Mike ‘Loco’ for the work he has done with Yellow Boots, and I am truly honored represent him in Congress. He certainly is a ‘Champion of Change,’ and I find it fitting that he was honored today at the White House.” On March 14, 2013, Rep. Grimm sent a letter supporting Mike Hoffman’s nomination as a Superstorm Sandy “Champion of Change.” After the White House, Mike Hoffman and his family visited Rep. Grimm’s DC office and were by joined by leaders from the Yellow Team (Farid Kader, Ross Decker, Jason Vogel) and Guyon Rescue (Derek Tabacco).
04.22.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-SI/Brooklyn) issued the following statement in response to the TSA’s announcement today to delay lifting the ban on knives until key stakeholders can weigh in. The ban was initially scheduled to be lifted on April 25th. “From day one, I adamantly opposed the TSA’s decision to lift the knife ban, and have aggressively fought in Congress to reinstate it. We are faced with the realities of a post- 9/11 world, and must act accordingly. The TSA’s decision to lift the ban was not only hastily made, but will jeopardize the safety of passengers and flight crews at a time when we should be adding extra protections. “Today’s announcement to allow the key stakeholders to weigh in - especially after Administrator Pistole assured me personally they already did - is a step in the right direction and something that should have been done before the ruling was made. As this process moves forward, I urge the TSA to listen carefully to those weighing in, and to rule in a way that makes safety the number one priority.” Rep. Grimm has been a leader on this issue, and has introduced the “No Knives Act” with Rep. Markey, which would reinstate the ban. ###
04.18.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-S.I./Brooklyn) applauded Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel’s decision to reverse the call to disestablish Brooklyn’s 24th National Guard Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Support Team (WMD-CST) at Ft. Hamilton, along with another CST in Florida. On March 29th, the Department of Defense sent a letter expressing its intent once again to disestablish the two CST teams, including is Ft. Hamilton’s. Rep. Grimm fought the decision, and today, Secretary Hagel gave his support for the units while testifying before the House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee. Rep. Grimm issued the following statement on the decision: “It seems each year we have to go to war to save Fort Hamilton’s WMD-CST. After, once again, securing bill language to save our CST from the chopping block, we thought the battle was won, until the new Defense Secretary told us last month that it was not. That’s when I joined with my colleagues in the NY delegation, and we fought back. “I am pleased that the Secretary heard our cries and realized the crucial role Ft. Hamilton’s WMD-CST plays in response and security efforts. Secretary Hagel’s statements before the committee have given us assurance that that Ft. Hamilton’s WMD-CST will remain intact and funded. “The 24th National Guard WMD-CST team has done exceptional job, not just in New York, but also in Boston where they were on the ground responding to the horrific attack on the marathon. I am so proud of their work and thrilled that they will remain at Brooklyn’s Fort Hamilton. This week’s events have reminded us that we must remain vigilant, and this elite team assists that effort.” Rep. Grimm led previous efforts to successfully secure language to save the two CSTs – in New York and Florida – after the Defense Department recommended disestablishing them. Despite this effort, the Department of Defense sent a letter on March 29, 2013 expressing its intent once again to disestablish the two teams. In response to this news, Rep. Grimm joined with Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) and urged the Secretary not to cut the CSTs. Today, the Secretary’s reversal of his decision is a reflection of their effort. At today’s hearing, Secretary Hagel was questioned three times on the issue of the CSTs. The video can be viewed here, and his replies are pasted below: (1:17:46): Appropriations Defense Subcommittee Chairman C.W. Bill Young (R-FL) questions the Secretary, to which he replies, “They are important and we have put the funding in.” (1:31:15): Appropriation Committee Ranking Member Nita Lowey (D-NY) asks, “Does your statement that you will keep them stand for the record?” The Secretary states, “It does stand for the record.” (2:48:00): Congressman Bill Owens (D-NY) questions the Secretary on his March 29th letter to disestablish the two CSTs, to which the Secretary replies, “I have reversed the initial decision and that is why we will keep the funding.” ###
04.15.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - As millions of Americans face the April 15th deadline to submit their 2012 tax returns, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) joins Reps. Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), Joseph Crowley (D-NY), Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ), and other lawmakers today in renewing their call for tax relief to the victims of Hurricane Sandy, many of whom are still rebuilding in the wake of the devastating storm. In a letter to Speaker Boehner which is pasted below, the bipartisan group of lawmakers urged the Speaker to support tax relief legislation in line with the principles of the Hurricane Sandy Tax Relief Act of 2012, which was introduced in the 112th Congress by Reps. Pascrell, Crowley, and Reed - members of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee. Rep. Grimm was a cosponsor. “The high costs of recovery have forced many families and small businesses to drain their savings or go deep into debt to find the funds to rebuild,” said Rep. Grimm. “Congress has set a precedent for providing tax relief to those impacted by previous storms, and those devastated by Superstorm Sandy should receive the same courtesy. Providing a little tax relief will go a long way in helping Staten Island’s communities recover, which is why I am urging the House to consider a Sandy tax relief package without delay.” The letter calls for passage of legislation in line with the following provisions contained in the Hurricane Sandy Tax Relief Act of 2012: Individual Assistance: Waiver of Adjusted Gross Income limitation for theft/loss deduction, so individuals can deduct the cost of uninsured losses. Increase the limitation on charitable contributions for disaster relief. Look-back Provision for Child Tax Credit and Earned Income Tax Credit, to allow a family in the affected region to opt to use their previous year's earnings to calculate their Child Tax Credit and Earned Income Tax Credit. Allow taxpayers whose principal place of residence is in the Hurricane Sandy Disaster Area and who suffered a loss from Hurricane Sandy, to take distributions from retirement savings accounts with no tax penalty, provided such amount is repaid within three years. Business Assistance: Allowing businesses to expense the cost of disaster recovery. Allowing businesses to use Net Operating Loss to recover past tax payments or reduce future tax payments, if they are operating with no tax liability during the prescribed period. Increase in new markets tax credit for investments in community development entities serving Hurricane Sandy disaster areas. Allowing public utilities to reduce their tax liability when rebuilding or replacing assets damaged in the storm. Work Opportunity Tax Credits for displaced workers. Public and Municipal Assistance: A new state-by-state private activity bond allocation for Sandy-affected areas to rebuild docks and wharfs, commuting facilities, certain housing, water, sewage, and solid waste infrastructure, and facilities used to provide electric energy or gas. Housing Assistance: Increased allocation of the Low Income Housing Tax Credit for declared disaster areas. Waiver of certain mortgage revenue bond requirements, easing access to capital. The text of the letter is below: April 15, 2013 Dear Speaker Boehner: We thank you for your support earlier this year in passing a supplemental appropriations bill to aid the victims of Hurricane Sandy. We now urge you to quickly pass a tax relief package for victims of this disaster. Congress has routinely provided tax relief to communities in the wake of our worst natural disasters. Three weeks after Hurricane Katrina devastated the Gulf, Congress passed the Katrina Emergency Tax Relief Act of 2005. Later in the year, Congress passed a more comprehensive bill, the Gulf Opportunity Zone Act of 2005, which expanded many provisions and provided further relief not only for Hurricane Katrina victims, but also in response to subsequent Hurricanes Rita and Wilma. In the 2008 Farm Bill, Congress provided additional tax relief targeted to just a few counties in Kansas that had been hit by storms and tornadoes. Later that same year, Congress approved tax relief for the victims of the severe weather in the Midwest as well as the regions impacted by Hurricane Ike. Furthermore, this “Hurricane Ike” bill included general disaster tax relief for victims of any federally-declared disaster before January 1, 2010: over 130 disasters were covered. Congress took action in each of these cases by helping these devastated communities recover, using well known and understood tax provisions to target relief for families and communities and to finance rebuilding. One key example of the tax relief provided was waiving the high threshold for individuals to claim losses to their personal property, such as damage to their homes and cars, from these natural disasters. This tax relief helped speed the recovery for millions of American families who were hurt through no fault of their own. Hurricane Sandy was the second-costliest natural disaster in the history of our country, and its victims in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and across the region seek relief consistent with that which Congress provided to other areas of the country when they have faced similar hardship. One of the main roles of government is the protection of its citizens, and our constituents still need help. Last year, bipartisan tax relief legislation was introduced to help get these families back on their feet. We would like to work with you to swiftly pass this vital legislation into law. Sincerely, (Signatories include Reps. Andrews, Cicilline, Courtney, Crowley, DeLauro, Engel, Frelinghuysen, Grimm, Higgins, Holt, Israel, King, Lance, Langevin, Larson, LoBiondo, McCarthy, Meeks, Nadler, Pallone, Pascrell, Payne, Jr., Rangel, Reed, Runyan, Sean Maloney, Serrano, Sires and Slaughter)
04.12.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the upcoming FDA ruling on allowing generic opioids, such as OxyContin and Opan, to hit the market this Tuesday: “Prescription drug abuse is a national epidemic that is killing more Americans than car accidents. The FDA has an opportunity to help crack down on this abuse before generic forms of opioids like OxContin and Opan hit the market this Tuesday. I urge them to do the right thing. “At this time, brand-name opioids contain tamper resistant properties that prevent them from being crushed, snorted, or injected, or otherwise abused. The generics do not. With 800 million generic doses scheduled to hit the market this Tuesday, it is imperative that the FDA enforce that they contain abuse deterrent properties. “Too many parents in my district of Staten Island and throughout the nation have had to bury their children because of an overdose. The time to act is now before these easily-abused generics hit the streets and flood our neighborhoods and schools. I look forward to the FDA’s announcement and sincerely hope that the agency will do the right thing by blocking these generic medications until they can be made tamper-resistant.” The generic opioids are scheduled to hit the markets this Tuesday, yet they do not contain the tamper-resistant properties of brand-name opioids, thus making them susceptible to abuse through crushing, snorting, and injection. The FDA is scheduled to rule today or Monday on whether the generic formulas will be able to enter the market starting Tuesday, April 16, 2013. Rep. Grimm’s district of Staten Island is heavily impacted by prescription drug abuse, and he has become a leader on the issue. He is a member of the Congressional Prescription Drug Abuse Caucus and was a featured guest this month at the National Prescription Drug Summit in Orlando, Florida. ### Prescription Drug Abuse Facts (NYC/Local): From 2005-2010 in NYC, prescription opioid overdoses increased 30 percent. From 2005-2010 in Staten Island, prescription drug overdoses have increased 180% – the highest in NYC. Statistically, one Staten Islander dies from a prescription drug overdose every 12 days, which translates to 8.4 deaths per 100,000 residents. In Brooklyn, there are 2.4 deaths per 100,000. Prescription drug overdoses now outnumber traffic accidents and murder as a cause of accidental deaths in Staten Island. Prescription Drug Abuse Facts (National): Prescription drug overdoses now outnumber traffic accidents in the number of accidental deaths in the United States. In 2010, 12 million people reported using prescription painkillers for non-medical reasons. Of that, 2 million reported using for the first time within the last year – nearly 5,500 a day. 3/4 of non-medical prescription painkiller users in 2010 received the drugs from a friend or relative—either for free, through a purchase, or via stealing the drugs. In 2010, ER visits from the misuse or abuse of pharmaceuticals occurred at a rate higher than illicit drugs Nearly 3/4 prescription drug overdoses are caused by prescription painkillers. The U.S. consumes 99% of the world's hydrocodone and 83% of its oxycodone, according to a 2008 study by the International Narcotics Control Board.
04.11.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – This week, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-SI/Brooklyn) participated in several events in Washington, DC for the National Days of Remembrance, which was established by Congress as an annual commemoration of the Holocaust. “This week, I was honored to participate in several remembrance events, and to meet Holocaust survivors who told me their incredible stories,” said Rep. Grimm. “I commend the efforts of the Holocaust Memorial Museum in preserving the stories and memories of the Jewish and non-Jewish people who have suffered at the hands of Nazi tyranny. Their work and exhibits depict a horrific part of history that we shall never forget, and must never again allow to be repeated.” Today, Rep. Grimm joined Congressional leaders for a ceremony in the rotunda of the U.S. Capitol to commemorate the Days of Remembrance. Rep. Grimm played a key role in making the ceremony possible. He authored legislation, H.Con.Res.14, which unanimously passed the House on March 6, 2013 to authorize the use of the Capitol rotunda on April 11, 2013, for a ceremony as part of the commemoration of the days of remembrance of victims of the Holocaust. Yesterday, Rep. Grimm visited the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum, where he met with Holocaust survivors and participated in a name reading of those who perished. Rep. Grimm serves on the Museum’s Holocaust Memorial Council as one of five House members selected by the Speaker of the House to serve on the council. Rep. Grimm is also a co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus. ### More information on the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum and Council: The U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum is a public-private partnership that was established by Congress on October 7, 1980. It opened its doors in Washington, DC on April 26, 1993 with the mission to advance and disseminate knowledge about the Holocaust, preserve the memory of those who suffered, and encourage reflection upon the moral and spiritual questions raised by those events. The museum is overseen by the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. The council includes 55 private citizens appointed by the U.S. president, five members of the Senate and five members of the House of Representatives, and three ex-officio members from the Departments of State, Education, and Interior.
04.08.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-SI/Brooklyn) sent a letter to FAA Administrator Michael P. Huestra expressing his outrage over a deal that was struck between the PANYNJ and the FAA that would force the PANYNJ to pay a $3.5 million fine and bifurcate its emergency response teams into two separate police and firefighter units – raising PANYNJ costs and imposing new labor standards. “Congress has weighed in on this matter repeatedly, only to be ignored each time by the FAA,” said Grimm. “The dual system has helped maintain high safety levels at our airports, with ARFF-trained police officers providing a second line of defense in emergency situations. There’s no clear evidence that bifurcation will increase safety; however, it is certain to increase PA costs. Who will pay for this? The people of Staten Island are already bearing the burden of the PA’s debt and mismanagement with exorbitant tolls, and simply cannot afford anymore bailouts.” For over 60 years Port Authority firefighters and police have performed dual roles at the PANYNJ airports with an exemplary record. When a major incident occurs, the first line of defense is the immediate deployment of aircraft rescue and firefighting (ARFF) assigned firefighters who are in the firehouse. The second line of defense are ARFF trained police officers who are working police shifts who immediately suit up in proximity gear they carry in the trunks of their patrol cars. The third line of defense are non-ARFF trained police. This seamless system provides for a unified and coordinated response, one chain-of-command, one communication system and one standard protocol. The deal announced today would change the current system, as well as impose fines, extra costs, and new labor standards. The Port Authority Police Benevolent Association also opposes the agreement. Read the FAA’s release on the terms of the deal here. ### The text of the letter is below: April 8, 2013 The Honorable Michael P. Huerta Administrator Federal Aviation Administration 800 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20591 Dear Administrator Huerta: I am writing today to express my outrage over the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) agreement with the Port Authority of New York & New Jersey (PANYNJ) regarding the bifurcation of aircraft rescue and firefighting (ARFF) trained police and firefighters, and request to discuss the matter with you personally. Members of the New York and New Jersey delegations, as well as leaders on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, have made repeated requests for clarification on the FAA’s statutory authority to regulate bifurcation personnel matters and on how the creation of a standalone firefighting unit at PANYNJ airports would better protect the flying public. Neither DOT nor FAA has answered these questions. Today, we were blindsided to learn of an agreement – via a FAA press release - that will increase costs and impose new labor standards on our airport’s response teams. On January 31, 2013, I sent a letter to Secretary Ray LaHood signed by twenty-four Members of Congress asking, “What is the legal basis for FAA staff to require bifurcation and what safety needs will be better served with bifurcation at the PANYNJ airports?” The response we received on February 25, 2013 simply stated, “It will take additional time for the Department to complete its response, which we will provide as soon as possible.” Once again, we have yet to receive any clarification or justification from the FAA. The Port Authority’s policing and firefighting responses have been called “exemplary” by the NTSB. The dual system has provided a seamless, unified and coordinated response; one chain-of-command; one communication system; and one standard protocol. Members of Congress have repeatedly applauded the response efforts at our airports and questioned the impact of bifurcation on safety. Having received no explanation from the FAA, it is clear that congressional intent was in no way considered when the deal was made. The deal announced today will impose a $3.5 million fine on the debt-stricken PANYNJ. In addition, the forced bifurcation will cost the PANYNJ millions of additional dollars each year, as they will have to set up a separate firefighting cadre with substantially higher operating costs. This cost will without a doubt be passed on to residents in my district - who are already bearing the brunt of the PANYNJ’s debt and mismanagement through $15 tolls – with no guarantee of additional safety at our airports. In addition, in striking this deal, the administration has imposed dramatic changes to work conditions, which could be in violation of collective bargaining agreements. For the PANYNJ to agree to this is unconscionable. It is clear from the FAA’s actions that intent of Congress and the opposition to bifurcation by the Port Authority Police Benevolent Association have been completely ignored. In fact, it seems this decision was made solely by Washington bureaucrats. As a Member of Congress, I find the complete disregard for our inquiries insulting and unprofessional. I am requesting a meeting or phone call with you to discuss this matter immediately, at which point I ask that you provide answers to my questions as well as a cost-benefit analysis justifying bifurcation. Should my request for answers be ignored for a third time, I plan to work with the appropriate committees of jurisdiction to schedule a hearing on this matter. I look forward to your prompt reply. Sincerely, MICHAEL G. GRIMM Member of Congress
03.28.2013	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-NY) applauded the decision announced yesterday by the 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals to uphold the constitutionality of residential toll discounts. Last Congress, Rep. Grimm introduced the Residential and Commuter Toll Fairness Act, to safeguard the current toll discounts for New York residents. It passed the House on August 1, 2012, but was held up in the Senate. “I applaud the 2nd Circuit Court’s ruling to affirm the right of New Yorkers to a residential toll discount,” said Grimm. “Protecting this toll discount for residents who commute regularly over the Verrazano or the Port Authority bridges has been a priority for me since day one. That is why I introduced and passed bipartisan legislation out of the House to address this very issue. Ensuring that this vital discount is maintained for our community is a step in the right direction for long term toll relief; however, we must remain vigilant in the fight against ever increasing tolls. Our work is not done until we find a viable solution for the businesses and jobs that are suffering as the result of the Port Authority’s outrageous toll hikes on commercial vehicles.” The 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals originally heard the toll discount lawsuit and had remanded it back to the District Court to rehear using a specific legal test. The District Court then ruled again that the toll discount was constitutional. Yesterday, that decision was appealed again to the 2nd Circuit and today that court ruled it was, in fact, constitutional to provide residential toll discounts. Read the Court’s ruling here. ###
03.25.2013	NEW YORK – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) encourages young leaders age 12 to 17 to apply for FEMA’s Youth Preparedness Council, which was announced today. The council provides an opportunity for young leaders to serve as a member of a distinguished national council, allowing them to learn about youth disaster preparedness from the leadership at FEMA and other national organizations dedicated to youth preparedness. “This is an excellent opportunity for the youth of Staten Island and Brooklyn to give back to the communities ravaged by Superstorm Sandy and to help them better prepare for future events,” said Grimm. “Emergency preparedness is a crucial element in any disaster, and to engage our young leaders now will help ensure a future generation of prepared adults. I encourage those interested to register online and to call my office with any further questions or for assistance.” Those who are chosen will attend the Youth Preparedness Council Summit, a meeting with emergency management leadership to discuss steps to strengthen the nation’s resiliency against all types of disasters. Council members may also participate in national, regional, state, tribal and local preparedness meetings. Participants are expected to represent the youth perspective on emergency preparedness and relay information within their communities. Each council member is expected to develop and complete one preparedness-related project specific to his/her region and interests. In addition to attending the Summit in the summer of 2013, council members may participate in national, regional, state, tribal and local preparedness meetings and present their work. It is expected that members will meet with FEMA on a regular basis via conference call to provide ongoing input on strategies, initiatives and projects throughout the duration of their term. Anyone between the ages of 12 and 17 who is engaged in individual and community preparedness is encouraged to apply or be nominated to serve on the Youth Preparedness Council. An individual may apply on his or her own behalf, or can be nominated by an adult familiar with the individual’s youth preparedness activities. Those interested in applying must submit a completed application form, a narrative and a letter of recommendation. The letter of recommendation can be from any adult, including a parent, guardian, community first responder or teacher. All applications and supporting materials must be received no later than 11:59 E.D.T. on April 19, 2013 in order to be eligible. Council members will be selected based on vacancies and announced in May 2013. Once selected, members serve on the Council for one year, with the option to extend for an additional year, based on a formal request by FEMA. For more information about the Youth Preparedness Council and FEMA’s work on youth preparedness, and to access the application materials, please visit www.ready.gov/youth-preparedness. ###
03.19.2013	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R-SI/Brooklyn) and Staten Island Councilman Vincent Ignizio (R-South Shore) sent a letter to Mayor Michael Bloomberg urging the city to seek federal funding to cover an exposed pipeline along the shore at Yetman Avenue, and to make this part of a larger effort to restore the beach and barriers along the Sandy-ravaged shoreline. Under FEMA’s Public Assistance program, funding must be requested by the city for eligible beach restoration programs in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy. “This is a matter of public safety, and we cannot afford to allow the southern shoreline of Staten Island to be neglected. I fought hard in Congress to secure Sandy relief aid, and now I want to ensure that those funds reach Staten Island to address all of our pressing recovery needs. Councilman Ignizio and I are urging the city to request the necessary FEMA funding to restore the sand that once covered the pipeline near Yetman Avenue and move forward with efforts to restore and strengthen the vulnerable coastline in the surrounding area,” said Grimm. “Beach erosion throughout Staten Island has caused a problem for both homeowners and those who use our beaches. This exposed pipeline poses a danger to the public and needs to be made safe as soon possible. Rep. Grimm and I believe we must move forward immediately with beach restoration efforts in order to protect lives and property,” said Ignizio. On Sunday, Rep. Grimm and Councilman Ignizio visited the pipeline to assess the extent of the damage. They have been working closely with the NYC Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) and NYC Parks Department, and have requested a timeline on the project. Grimm and Ignizio have suggested using the excess and unwanted sand from Prince’s Bay to cover the pipeline, and urge that a company be hired as soon as possible to complete the project. The text of the letter is below: March 19, 2013 The Honorable Michael R. Bloomberg Mayor of New York City City Hall New York, NY 10007 Dear Mayor Bloomberg, I am writing regarding the pipeline on the shore near Yetman Avenue, which has become exposed as a result of Superstorm Sandy. In order to protect the pipeline and the public from danger, I urge you to request Public Assistance funding from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to cover the pipeline with sand, and to make this part of a larger effort to restore and fortify the surrounding coastal area. The exposed pipeline was brought to our attention by local residents who are concerned about public safety. In response, we have visited the site ourselves and are working with the New York City Department of Environmental Protection and the New York City Parks Department to address the safety risks. We are seeking a timeline for project completion as well as further information on how much sand is needed to cover the pipeline. FEMA’s Public Assistance program is available to provide federal funding to address disaster-related impacts to public beaches that meet certain criteria. Eligible work may include either emergency protective measures or permanent restoration. We ask that you work with the New York State Emergency Management Office to request the necessary federal funding to cover the pipeline with sand, and to make this project a top priority. In the interest of saving resources and providing greater efficiency, we suggest using the unwanted, excess sand from Prince’s Bay to cover pipeline near Yetman Avenue. This, of course, is just one crucial and immediate step in a larger plan to restore natural and man-made barriers to protect the coastal neighborhoods from future storms. The coastal area has suffered excessive damage and its residents have experienced great loss. As we move forward with beach restoration and mitigation plans, we look forward to working with you to protect this very vulnerable area along the southeastern shore of Staten Island. Thank you again for your prompt attention to this matter. We remain available to assist in any way possible. Sincerely, MICHAEL G. GRIMM VINCENT IGNIZIO Member of Congress Councilman ###
03.18.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Reps. Michael G. Grimm (R-NY), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), Patrick Tiberi (R-OH), and Daniel Lipinski (D-IL) announce the introduction of a House resolution (H.Res.120), commemorating the life and service of Benedict XVI, Pope Emeritus, and congratulating Pope Francis on his election as Supreme Pontiff of the Roman Catholic Church. “As a Roman Catholic, I’m filled with joy and excitement at the election of Pope Francis,” said Grimm. “Known for his humble origins, personal work ministering to the poor and unique reputation as a man of and for the people, His Holiness has the qualities required to lead with humility and sincerity while spreading Christ’s message of peace, love, and forgiveness in the modern world. As the representative from a predominately Catholic district, I join with my constituents and my colleagues in celebrating the historic election of Pope Francis and embracing his unique opportunity to unite Catholics worldwide in a new-found hope and fellowship.” Rep. Grimm is the author and sponsor of the resolution. All four members introducing the bill are Catholic. Reps. Grimm, Pascrell, Tiberi, and Lipinski are also circulating a letter among colleagues that will be sent later this week to the Apostolic Nuncio, which is the equivalent of the Vatican’s embassy in the United States. It will be signed by Members of Congress expressing “joy and heartfelt congratulations to the Holy See” on the elevation of Pope Francis as Supreme Pontiff of the Roman Catholic Church. ### The text of the resolution is below: H. RES. 120 A resolution commemorating the life and service of Benedict XVI, Pope Emeritus, and congratulating Pope Francis on his election as Supreme Pontiff of the Roman Catholic Church. Mr. GRIMM (for himself, Mr. TIBERI, Mr. PASCRELL, and Mr. LIPINSKI) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs RESOLUTION A resolution commemorating the life and service of Benedict XVI, Pope Emeritus, and congratulating Pope Francis on his election as Supreme Pontiff of the Roman Catholic Church. Whereas Benedict XVI, Pope Emeritus, a man of monumental courage and humility, whose unceasing love and devotion to the ministry of Christ helped steward the Catholic Church and the faithful through the daunting challenges of the 21st century; Whereas Benedict leaves behind an enduring legacy, both as renowned theologian and kind-hearted leader who balanced the august splendor of the papacy with a gentle humanity, and masterfully communicated the timeless morality of the Church in a crusade against the modern evils of relativism, materialism, and consumerism; Whereas the election to the papacy of His Holiness Pope Francis, formerly Cardinal Jorge Mario Bergoglio of Argentina, marks a groundbreaking moment in the life of the Catholic Church, elevating a marvelous suitor to lead the world's largest apostolic Christian ministry; Whereas Pope Francis has inspired a vibrant sense of reform and spiritual renewal in the Church, representing the first pontiff born in the New World, the first hailing from Latin America, and the first prelate ordained in the renowned Society of Jesus or Jesuits; Whereas the Pope's chosen regnal name of Francis, after St. Francis of Assisi, as well as his unrivaled reputation as a personally devoted minister to the needs of the poor and outcast, emphasizes the opportunities and obligations of mankind to serve a missionary role in advancing peace, social justice, and moral contemplation for the betterment of all God's children; Whereas as President of the Argentine Episcopal Conference, Pope Francis' experience as spiritual guide and premiere pastoral administrator of one of the Holy See's largest and most active diocese reveals his unique ability to accomplish much needed reforms in the Vatican and sustain a growing Church in the world's developing communities in Latin America, Africa, and Asia; and Whereas Pope Francis' striking humility and simple gentleness empowers him to connect with and renew the hearts of the faithful and heal the recent wounds of the Church: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives-- (1) offers its congratulations to Pope Francis as he embarks on the sacred burden as the leader of the world's 1,200,000,000 Catholics; and (2) extends its gratitude and well-wishes to Benedict XVI, Pope Emeritus, for his service to the world community as he enters the next phase of his devotion to the Church in solemn prayer and reflection.
03.17.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – On the heels of what is known as “Match Day,” where medical students across the country learned where they will go for the next stage of their training, Rep Michael Grimm (NY-11) joins Rep. Joe Crowley (NY-14)), along with Senators Bill Nelson (FL), Charles Schumer (NY) and Harry Reid (NV) announcing they have reintroduced the Resident Physician Shortage Reduction Act of 2013 in both chambers of Congress. The Resident Physician Shortage Reduction Act would expand the current cap on the number of Medicare-supported training slots for doctors, helping to ensure teaching hospitals can meet the growing demands for physicians as our nation faces a looming doctor shortage. According to the Association of American Medical Colleges, the U.S. is expected to face a shortage of 45,000 primary care physicians and 46,000 surgeons and medical specialists – a stunning shortage of more than 91,000 doctors – by 2020. “Our nation is facing a physician shortage, which will only be exacerbated as more baby boomers age into Medicare. While new medical schools are educating more physicians, we still do not have enough resident slots through the Graduate Medical Education (GME) program to train these additional doctors - a problem that greatly impacts New York where 1 in 7 of our nation’s doctors are trained. To address this growing issue, I am proud to join Congressman Crowley in introducing the Resident Physician Shortage Reduction Act of 2013 which will create 15,000 new GME slots over five years. America has the world’s best and brightest physicians, and we should expand that tradition for our seniors, children, and for all Americans, who deserve accessible, high-quality healthcare,” said Rep. Grimm. “Our country needs us to do all we can to alleviate the coming doctor shortage, yet an outdated limit on the number of doctors that can be trained ties the hands of our medical schools and our teaching hospitals,” said Rep. Crowley. “I am proud to partner with Congressman Grimm and Senators Nelson, Schumer, and Reid to once again introduce this critical legislation. Increasing the number of residency slots, along with maintaining sufficient resources for our teaching hospitals, will enable us to continue developing the highly-trained physician workforce we need.” The Resident Physician Shortage Reduction Act would increase the number of Medicare-supported hospital residency positions by 15,000 (3,000 slots per year, over five years), bringing the total number of slots available to approximately 102,000. The legislation also places an emphasis on expanding residency slots in primary care and other specialties necessary to meet the needs of a growing population. Medicare and Medicaid graduate medical education (GME) funding reimburses teaching hospitals for the additional costs incurred as a result of training physicians. Congress has long acknowledged the burdensome costs associated with training our future doctors, and the federal government has supported its share of the costs through GME funding. However, current federal Medicare rules place an outdated cap on the number of residents hospitals across the country are able to train without being penalized millions in Medicare funding. In 1997, federal law froze the number of Medicare-supported hospital residency positions based on the number of residents that each hospital trained in 1996. Fifteen years later, this cap has not been lifted or adjusted, despite dramatic population growth and an impending doctor shortage. Using state-of-the-art equipment and the most sophisticated medical procedures, teaching hospitals are fulfilling the critical mission of training the next generation of doctors – success that would be put at risk without strong graduate medical education programs. In New York alone, the state’s teaching hospitals train one out of seven of the nation’s doctors. Across the country, there are seventeen states with more than 10 percent of their active physicians trained by New York institutions. Teaching hospitals are also engines of economic growth, generating over $512 billion and supporting 3.4 million jobs nationwide. In New York state, these hospitals generate nearly $108 billion for state and local economies annually, and support more than 686,000 high-quality jobs through direct and indirect employment. Failing to maintain strong physician training programs will have a significant impact not only on patient care throughout the country, but also on jobs and economic growth. The Resident Physician Shortage Reduction Act of 2013 is supported by the American Medical Association, Association of American Medical Colleges, American Osteopathic Association, American Association of Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine, Greater New York Hospital Association, Healthcare Association of New York State, and the Florida Hospital Association, among other leading national organizations. ###
03.15.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-SI/Brooklyn) issued the following statement in response to TSA Administrator John Pistole’s testimony standing by decision to lift the ban on knives in airplane cabins: “The TSA Administrator’s views on lifting the knife ban are borderline idiotic. We live in a post-9/11 world, and there is no excuse to take liberties when it comes to public safety. As a former federal law enforcement officer, I know firsthand that even a 2” blade can cause very serious harm when used by a trained individual. There is no place for a knife in an airplane cabin; and if one must travel with a knife, it can be checked in a bag. “At yesterday’s hearing, Administrator Pistole stood firm in his position to allow knives on planes. His complete disregard for the security concerns raised by the Members of Congress, key stakeholders like flight attendants and air marshals, and the general public is a disgrace. This is not the type of decision that should be made from the top down. This is a matter of safety, and Pistole’s obstinacy will not be taken lightly. “Administrator Pistole has made it clear that Congressional action is needed. If we have to force his hand, we will. I have introduced the “No Knives Act” with Rep. Markey, which would reinstate the TSA ban, and will do all I can to work with my colleagues to move this bill forward and into law.” ###
03.12.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) along with Rep. Swalwell (D-CA) and Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-MS), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, is leading an effort opposing the Transportation Security Administration’s (TSA), decision to lift the ban on knives in aircraft cabins. The trio is currently circulating a bipartisan letter among congressional colleagues asking them to join in the opposition. The letter will be sent to TSA Administrator John S. Pistole raising serious objections to his recent decision to allow passengers to bring knives and certain sports equipment onboard airplanes. “As a former federal law enforcement agent, I believe passenger and flight crew safety must remain a top priority, and allowing knives in the aircraft cabin puts that safety at risk. We must face the realities of a post-9/11 world and make our decisions accordingly. Lifting the ban on knives is an irresponsible and short-sighted decision that could seriously harm innocent passengers or the dedicated crew. That is why I am urging the TSA to reinstate the ban without delay,” said Rep. Grimm. This decision to lift the ban seems to have been made without consulting with key stakeholders, such as crew members and air marshals who are most likely to be confronted by someone with a knife on a plane. The Aviation Security Advisory Committee (ASAC), which in the past has weighed in on security policies, was also not consulted. The letter urges the TSA Administrator to refrain from lifting the ban on knives and to engage with all relevant stakeholders before enacting this policy that could jeopardize the safety of flight crews, air marshals and the public. The letter has been signed by XXX members of Congress and is gaining support. The effort is supported by the Coalition of Flight Attendant Unions, the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association (FLEOA), and the Coalition of Airline Pilots Associations. Rep. Grimm is also the lead republican on Rep. Ed Markey's "No Knives Act," which would reinstate the ban. ### The text of the letter is below: March __, 2013 The Honorable John S. Pistole Administrator Transportation Security Administration 601 South 12th Street Arlington, VA 20598 Dear Administrator Pistole: We write to express our serious concerns and urge your withdrawal of the recently announced policy to permit passengers to bring knives and certain sporting equipment in the aircraft cabin. On September 11, 2001, hijackers on board United 93, United 175, American 77, and American 11 took over these planes using mace, box cutters and knives to attack passengers and crew. While the federal authority responsible for aviation safety and security at the time, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), did not expressly prohibit knives with blades shorter than 4 inches in length, the checkpoint operations guide, developed by the airlines in consultation with the FAA, explicitly permitted them.[1After these deadly terrorist attacks of 9/11, all knives and dangerous sporting equipment, like pool cues, were placed on a list of prohibited items and banned from planes. After 9/11, Congress acted and passed the Aviation Transportation Security Act (ATSA), which established TSA and provided a screening workforce of federal employees responsible for passenger safety and baggage security. In 2004, Congress passed the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (P.L. 108-458), which granted TSA’s Administrator the authority to modify the list of items that would be prohibited from planes. Congress acted swiftly to ensure that TSA was afforded the resources and authority to ensure a secure aviation system for the American flying public. We strongly believe that the prohibition of dangerous items is an integral layer in the safety of our aviation system. While we support efforts to move toward a risk-based approach to security screening which will allow Transportation Security Officers (TSOs) to focus their attention on searching for items that may cause catastrophic damage to an aircraft, the TSA’s recent change in policy seems unlikely to produce significant efficiencies at airport security. On the contrary, compliance with this new policy would require TSOs to inspect each knife that passes through a checkpoint to ensure that it does not exceed the size limits. Such an exercise seems likely to cause more delays than the current policy that bars all knives. Additionally, the rationale that this policy change will help conform the list of prohibited items used in the United States to similar lists used in other countries is not persuasive. As a practical matter, international travel requires that one navigate various rules and regulations regarding the permissibility of a variety of commercial items. A lack of standardized uniformity in such rules is not a novel or surprising concept to an international traveler. Further, while our government should attempt to facilitate international travel, its primary responsibility of assuring the safety of the passengers and crew of domestic travelers cannot be diminished. And, decisions about measures that may reduce safety must be made with all interested stakeholders. TSA’s decision appears to have been reached without any formal engagement with stakeholders impacted by this policy, including our frontline workers aboard flights, the crewmembers. A failure to engage all relevant stakeholders is unfortunate, in light of existing processes and mechanisms in place to garner input from frontline workers, such as the Aviation Security Advisory Committee (ASAC), which has played a critical role in the development of security policies and protocols, such as the Final Rule on Air Cargo Security. The Coalition of Flight Attendant Unions, the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, and the Coalition of Airline Pilots Associations oppose TSA’s policy change and do not believe that policies that promote standards of safety and security should be relaxed. The concerns of these groups, composed of aviation sector employees who will be directly impacted by this policy, as well as other aviation sector stakeholders, should be heard through the existing ASAC process prior to implementation of a policy that would permit passengers to bring knives and certain sporting equipment into the passenger compartment of a plane. Therefore, we request that TSA maintain knives and sporting equipment on the list of prohibited items until a process of formal consultation is conducted with all stakeholders through the ASAC. We look forward to your response. Sincerely,
03.11.2013	NEW YORK, NY – Today, Reps. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) and Gregory Meeks (D-NY) were joined by Reps. Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), Rep. Eliot Engel (D-NY) and Rep. Jerold Nadler (D-NY) to announce the introduction of H.R.960,the Flood Victim Premium Relief Act of 2013– a bill to ease the burden of skyrocketing flood insurance rates on victims of Superstorm Sandy by extending the premium increase timeline for primary residences in areas that have been declared a federal disaster area after July 6, 2012 from 5 years to 8 years. “Given the massive destruction faced by victims of Superstorm Sandy, with many having their lives completely upended both emotionally and financially, this bill is vitally important,” said Rep. Grimm. “If we allow flood premiums to increase on their current schedule, based on the new maps, homeowners are going to be in an impossible position of trying to both pay their mortgage as well as increased flood premiums that may rise over $10,000 in some cases. This situation will almost certainly lead to a surge in defaults and foreclosures and cost the taxpayers vast sums via the government’s exposure to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the FHA. Allowing an extra three years to increase premiums will give both homeowners and localities time make smart, long term flood mitigation and rebuilding plans.” "Not a day goes by that my office is not making a call to a bank or an insurance company on behalf of my constituents who were deeply affected by the storm. This premium relief bill will give some relief from the tremendous cost of rebuilding their lives,” said Rep. Meeks. "I would like to thank Rep. Grimm and my fellow co-sponsors for all of their hard work." Under the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012, the maximum rate increase the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) could impose in a given year was raised from 10% to 20%. This was done as an attempt to bring the heavily indebted program back to solvency over time. H.R. 960 would slow the rate of increase in declared disaster areas for the first four years after a remapping from 20% per year to 5% per year, with rates in years 5 through 8 returning to the original 20% a year increases. Rep. Grimm’s bill was introduced last week with original cosponsors Reps. Gregory Meeks (N-NY), Peter King (R-NY), and Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY). The legislation has gained the support of other members of the NYC Congressional delegation and is cosponsored by Reps. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Charles Rangel (D-NY), Joseph Crowley (D-NY), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Grace Meng (D-NY), and Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY). ###
03.02.2013	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-Staten Island/Brooklyn) joined Staten Island homeowners impacted by Superstorm Sandy in calling on federal home mortgage entities to help them keep their homes and avoid default. Homeowners impacted by Superstorm Sandy were permitted to defer mortgage payments for 90-days, which was then extended to 180-days. Deferred payments must be paid back in one lump sum. Rep. Grimm sent a letter to mortgage entities yesterday asking that the lump sum be spread out over the life of the mortgage to ease the financial burden on homeowners. “The people of Staten Island have suffered a tremendous financial burden in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy – some going deep in to debt to find the resources to rebuild, while paying for temporary housing while they repair their damaged homes,” said Rep. Grimm. “The mortgage deferment has provided some relief to homeowners; however, a dark cloud looms over their heads as they anticipate the deadline when six months of deferred mortgage must be paid at once. This is simply unfeasible for many, who worry about the risk of default. I am calling on federal home mortgage entities to ease the financial burden of homeowners impacted by Superstorm Sandy by spreading out the deferred payments over the course of the mortgage.” On March 1, 2013, Rep. Grimm sent a letter to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, FHFA, HUD, and the Department of Veterans Affairs to adopt a solution that will help ease the financial burden on homeowners impacted by Superstorm Sandy. ### The text of the letter is below: March 1, 2013 Dear Messrs. DeMarco, Donovan, Shinseki, Mayopoulos and Layton, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for listening to the concerns of those impacted by Superstorm Sandy, which I have been relaying to you on their behalf since the storm hit. In response to our concerns, you have helped provide desperately needed mortgage relief to homeowners whose lives have been devastated; however, there is more work to be done. The initial 90-day payment moratorium, as well as the additional 90 days that have recently been granted, have provided tremendous relief to those who find themselves in a situation where their primary residences are uninhabitable and need to use their limited resources to pay for temporary rental accommodations and home repairs to ensure that their families have a roof over their heads. Unfortunately, now that the 90-day period is over, those impacted by Superstorm Sandy still find themselves in tough financial situations as they struggle to rebuild. Many of those affected by the storm are using the funds that would normally go toward paying their mortgages toward temporary housing and other essential expenses. It would be impractical, if not impossible, to expect these affected homeowners to be able to correct their arrearage in a single lump sum payment. To do so would force many of these homeowners into immediate default, victimizing them a second time, and damaging their prospects of being able to purchase a new home in near future. To rectify this situation, I am requesting that the creation of a long-term repayment plan that would allow these homeowners to become current on their loans over time. In my opinion, one viable option would be to amortize the arrearage over the remaining life of the loan. For example, for a loan that had an original balance of $300,000 and a 5% interest rate, the monthly payments would be approximately $1610 a month. After a six-month moratorium the homeowner would owe $9,660. If the loan had 20 years remaining, amortizing that $9,660 at 5% interest over the life of the loan would add approximately $64 to the monthly payment, an amount far more manageable than a $9,660 lump sum payment. Again, I would to thank you for all of your cooperation thus far as my constituents work to rebuild their lives after this devastating storm. I look forward to working with you in the future and thank you in advance for your consideration in this matter. Sincerely, Michael G. Grimm Member of Congress
02.28.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Reps. Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) and Loretta Sanchez (D-CA) wrapped up Startup Week on the Hill by announcing strong industry support for their Startup Act 3.0, which was introduced on February 14, 2013 with Reps. Kevin Yoder (R-KS), Jared Polis (D-CO), Devin Nunes (R-CA), Gerald Connolly (D-VA), and Steve Chabot (R-OH). The Startup Act 3.0 is a bill to create and keep jobs in America; increase America’s access to talent in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) by reforming high-skilled visa policies; and create opportunities for startup businesses with tax incentives and access to resources for innovation. “Startup 3.0 will provide a boost to America’s new and innovative companies, propelling them forward to compete globally and hire locally. Too often we educate the world’s best and brightest in STEM fields, only to send them back to countries like India and China to open businesses and compete against us. This bill will keep top talent here in the U.S. to build businesses that hire Americans, and drive U.S. innovation and competitiveness. I am proud to reintroduce this new and improved version of the Startup Act with my colleagues in the House and Senate and to have the strong backing from leaders in the industry,” said Rep. Grimm. “I’m proud to author this legislation to help American companies. Business leaders need Startup 3.0 so they can hire highly-skilled entrepreneurs and engineers who will innovate and grow our economy. Often these individuals are educated in the United States and then sent away to work in their home countries. American businesses should be able to hire them here – their work will grow our economy and help to create jobs,” said Rep. Sanchez. “Around the world, competing countries recognize that immigration policy is a key driver of economic prosperity, and they are changing their policies to attract top talent. The introduction of Startup 3.0 shows bipartisan agreement that America can no longer afford to wait – we must make every effort to attract and keep the world’s best minds, regardless of where they come from,” said New York City Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. Startup 3.0 helps increase America’s access to talent by creating a new set of conditional visas for 75,000 immigrant entrepreneurs and 50,000 foreign STEM graduate student that together will create half a million new American jobs. Research has demonstrated the positive impact of immigrants on American job creation: More than 40 percent of all Fortune 500 companies were founded by an immigrant or the child of an immigrant, and each foreign-born advanced degree holder who stays in the U.S. to work in a STEM occupation created an estimated 2.6 American jobs. Research shows that startups create 3 million jobs per year, on average. In addition, over the past 30 years, companies less than five years old have created almost all the new net jobs in America. This bill builds upon those successes by using tax incentives to spur continued growth and innovation. In an important change from the previous bill, Startup 3.0 allows qualified companies to apply research and development tax credits to their payroll tax liability, up to $250,000. For small startups, it also makes permanent the 100 percent capital gains tax exemption on investments that are held for more than 5 years, in addition to the 28 percent exemption on qualified small business stock. These provisions will unlock over $7.5 billion in new investments which will result in more innovation and jobs. Finally, the bill helps cut red tape, by requiring a cost-benefit analysis of any significant rule being proposed by a federal or independent agency. The Startup Act 3.0 was also introduced in the Senate on February 13, 2012 by Senators Jerry Moran (R-KS), Mark Warner (D-VA), and Christopher Coons (D-DE). The bill is supported by Microsoft, Google, National Small Business Association (NSBA), CTIA, Consumer Electronics Association (CEA), Financial Services Forum, Computer and Communications Industry Association (CCIA), TechAmercia, Information Technology Industry (ITI), Compete America, Silicon Valley Leadership Group, TechNet, Angel Capital Association, and CompTIA. "The startup community needs an immigration system that works so that companies can continue to drive the engine of the American economy. The entrpreneurial provisions contained in Startup Act 3.0 will provide great support to innovators by helping them start new businesses, and source and retain the talented individuals who will them help grow," said Michael McGeary, Co-Founder, Engine Advocacy. “America’s small businesses are struggling, in fact, 50 percent project no growth whatsoever for their own business this year. Small businesses need Congress to roll up their sleeves and promote policies that will help, such as the Startup Act 3.0 which would enhance their ability to grow and create jobs. This bill is the perfect example of the good work that can be accomplished with bipartisan efforts, and I applaud Reps. Grimm, Sanchez, Yoder, Polis and Connolly for their leadership,” said Todd McCracken, President and CEO, National Small Business Association (NSBA). "Highly skilled workers are helping drive innovation and job growth opportunities that are crucial to America's economic recovery. To sustain this growth, companies like Microsoft need to be able to recruit and retain the world's brightest minds to complement our large number of US employees. We applaud Representatives Grimm and Sanchez for reintroducing this important legislation to help fuel innovation and create more jobs in this country. We urge Congress to enact bipartisan legislation in 2013 that addresses these important challenges and finally reforms our outdated high-skilled immigration system,” said Fred Humphries, VP of US Government Affairs, Microsoft. “The Startup Act 3.0 opens up opportunities for the IT sector to continue hiring high-skilled workers who produce some of the world’s most advanced technology products and services, right here in the US. The Act spurs innovation at its core by creating incentives for investment, entrepreneurship and job growth, and helps to build a secure 21st century American economy,” said Todd Thibodeaux, President and Chief Executive Officer, CompTIA. “Startup Act 3.0 includes many strategic policy changes necessary to expand the U.S. economy and allow small, entrepreneurial companies to grow and thrive. CEA urges both the House of Representatives and Senate to pass the Startup Act 3.0 expeditiously,” said Gary Shapiro, President and CEO, Consumer Electronics Association. “On behalf of our member companies, we voice our support for Startup Act3.0. We applaud you for introducing this legislation, which will continue our economic recovery by providing greater support for high-­‐paying and high-­‐skilled jobs in STEM. Providing these new visas for world-class talent will help to fill the over 265,000 IT related jobs currently open, and this will also create further opportunities for starting and growing new businesses in the United States,” said TechVoice. ###
02.25.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-S.I./Brooklyn) advises those receiving social security, veterans, or other federal payment by paper check, that they must change payments by March 1, 2013 to either direct deposit or a Direct Express debit card. Rep. Grimm has been working to actively reach out to seniors and other benefit recipients in his district to alert them of changes, and his district staff remains ready to assist. “Beginning on March 1st, the federal government will be switching to a direct deposit system for payments to social security, veterans, and other benefits,” said Grimm. “This change will allow the U.S. government to save money, as well as cutback on lost or stolen checks. My office has been actively reaching out to seniors and veterans to alert them of the change, and remains readily available to answer questions or assist with the process.” Since 2005, the federal government has worked with seniors and other federal payment recipients to transition to electronic payments. One reason for this change is to save taxpayer dollars - paper checks costs taxpayers $1 billion over 10 years. In addition to reducing program costs, electronic payments are also more secure. In 2011, there were over 440,000 lost or stolen Social Security paper checks with more than $70 million fraudulently endorsed. Resources for More Information on Payment Options: March 1, 2013 Deadline: Any person who receives a federal payment by paper check must change their payment method to either direct deposit or a Direct Express debit card by March 1, 2013. Who Has to Make These Changes: This change applies to all federal payments made by paper check from Social Security, Supplemental Security Income, Veterans Affairs, Black Lung Fund, Railroad Retirement Board, and the Office of Personal and Management. What If I don’t Change My Payment Method: If you do not transfer your paper check to an electronic payment by March 1, you may be issued a Direct Express debit card. More Information on Direct Deposit: If you would like to sign up for direct deposit, or for more information, visit www.GoDirect.org, call the U.S. Treasury Electronic Payment Solution Center at (800) 333-1795, or visit your local bank or credit union. You will need to know your account type (savings or checking), account number, and the financial institution’s routing number. More Information on Direct Express Debit Card: If you do not have a bank account or if you would like to sign up for a Direct Express debit card, visit www.GoDirect.org, call the U.S. Treasury Electronic Payment Solution Center at (800) 333-1795, or contact your local office of the agency providing the federal benefit. Rep. Grimm’s Staten Island Office: 265 New Dorp Lane; 718-351-1062. Rep. Grimm’s Brooklyn Office: 7308 13th Avenue; 718-630-5277. ###
02.25.2013	STATEN ISLAND, NY - Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-Staten Island/Brooklyn) issued the following statement congratulating Staten Island native Chris Terrio for winning the Oscar’s best adaptive screenplay award for “Argo”: “Last night, native Staten Islander Chris Terrio made us all proud with an Oscar win for his screenplay adaptation of ‘Argo.’ His script recreates one of the most-watched moments in our nation’s history, when the eyes of all Americans were on Iran and our prayers were for the safe return of the hostages. Mr. Terrio retold the previously classified story of CIA’s Tony Mendez’s rescue mission with a balance of creativity, humor, and high-drama to captivate audiences and capture the American spirit at a pivotal moment in time. “On Staten Island, we are privileged to be home to so many exceptionally talented individuals, and Chris Terrio’s Oscar win is living proof! For our local aspiring artists young and old, Chris Terrio has shown us that there is no dream too big and no goal untenable. Let his Oscar win will be an inspiration to all who aspire to artistic achievement, and part of a lasting legacy for generations to come.” ###
02.19.2013	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s press conference on his own sequester: “President Obama has no one to blame but himself for the consequences of sequestration. He proposed it and he insisted on it. As a result, we are faced with reckless, across-the-board cuts that will hurt important local programs, cost us jobs, and decrease the amount of Sandy relief funding we fought hard to move through Congress and into the hands of victims who desperately need it to rebuild. “Shifting the blame back to Congress is a shameless political tactic. In fact, the House has twice passed legislation to replace the president’s job-killing sequester with targeted, common-sense cuts. I voted for both proposals; however, the Senate refused to act. “If the president is serious about finding a solution, he will reach out to Congress to identify responsible ways to cut $85 billion - something the House has already done. Instead we are hearing more of the same rhetoric from this president who believes that a tax hike is the only solution to our spending problems. “At a time when our government just spent $2.2 billion on Obama’s free cell phone program– we clearly have a choice of programs to eliminate. No one should be talking about another round of tax hikes, when sequestration can be easily avoided through responsible cuts. The March 1st deadline is approaching quickly. It’s time for President Obama to stop the political theater and support a responsible alternative to sequestration that addresses our spending problem – instead of feeding it with more tax hikes.” ###
02.14.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Reps. Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) and Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), introduced the Startup Act 3.0 in the House of Representatives, with Reps. Kevin Yoder (R-KS), Jared Polis (D-CO), Devin Nunes (R-CA), Gerald Connolly (D-VA), and Steve Chabot (R-OH). The Startup Act 3.0 is a bill to create and keep jobs in America; increase America’s access to talent in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) by reforming high-skilled visa policies; and create opportunities for startup businesses with tax incentives and access to resources for innovation. “Startup 3.0 will provide a boost to America’s new and innovative companies, propelling them forward to compete globally and hire locally. Too often we educate the world’s best and brightest in STEM fields, only to send them back to countries like India and China to open businesses and compete against us. This bill will keep top talent here in the U.S. to build businesses that hire Americans, and drive U.S. innovation and competitiveness. I am proud to reintroduce this new and improved version of the Startup Act with my colleagues in the House and Senate,” said Rep. Grimm. “I’m proud to author this legislation to help American companies. Business leaders need Startup 3.0 so they can hire highly-skilled entrepreneurs and engineers who will innovate and grow our economy. Often these individuals are educated in the United States and then sent away to work in their home countries. American businesses should be able to hire them here – their work will grow our economy and help to create jobs,” said Rep. Sanchez. “Small businesses are the engines that drive the American economy. Retaining the best and brightest American-educated entrepreneurs in the U.S. is vital to the prosperity and global competitiveness of our economy. I will continue my efforts in the 113th Congress to help these innovators and small business owners thrive, especially those in the science, technology, engineering, and math fields. I look forward to working on the Startup Act 3.0 with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, and in both chambers,” said Rep. Yoder. “Americans need more jobs now, which means we should be doing everything possible to encourage the launch of great new American companies. By helping startups grow and succeed, we unleash the creative energies of entrepreneurs and innovators to take their great ideas and turn them into new job creating businesses. This is exactly the kind of bipartisan, job-creating legislation that Congress should act on immediately,” said Rep. Polis. “There is no reason for the United States to educate needed high-skilled workers, only for them to leave America and use their talents in other nations. Making it easier for these workers to stay here, create businesses here, and contribute their expertise to the American economy is a common-sense measure that could result in thousands of new jobs and major technological breakthroughs,” said Rep. Nunes. “Cincinnati is quickly becoming a new hub for technology and innovation, and to continue this trend, lawmakers must do everything in their power to remove obstacles faced by startups and entrepreneurs, and encourage new businesses to create, invest, and grow right here at home. Startup 3.0 takes an important step in that direction,” said Rep. Chabot. Startup 3.0 helps increase America’s access to talent by creating a new set of conditional visas for 75,000 immigrant entrepreneurs and 50,000 foreign STEM graduate student that together will create half a million new American jobs. Research has demonstrated the positive impact of immigrants on American job creation: More than 40 percent of all Fortune 500 companies were founded by an immigrant or the child of an immigrant, and each foreign-born advanced degree holder who stays in the U.S. to work in a STEM occupation created an estimated 2.6 American jobs. Research shows that startups create 3 million jobs per year, on average. In addition, over the past 30 years, companies less than five years old have created almost all the new net jobs in America. This bill builds upon those successes by using tax incentives to spur continued growth and innovation. In an important change from the previous bill, Startup 3.0 allows qualified companies to apply research and development tax credits to their payroll tax liability, up to $250,000. For small startups, it also makes permanent the 100 percent capital gains tax exemption on investments that are held for more than 5 years, in addition to the 28 percent exemption on qualified small business stock. These provisions will unlock over $7.5 billion in new investments which will result in more innovation and jobs. Finally, the bill helps cut red tape, by requiring a cost-benefit analysis of any significant rule being proposed by a federal or independent agency. The bill has previously received industry support from Microsoft, Google, National Small Business Association (NSBA), CTIA, Consumer Electronics Association (CEA), Financial Services Forum, Computer and Communications Industry Association (CCIA), TechAmercia, Information Technology Industry (ITI), Compete America, Silicon Valley Leadership Group, and TechNet. The Startup Act 3.0 was also introduced in the Senate on February 13, 2012 by Senators Jerry Moran (R-KS), Mark Warner (D-VA), and Christopher Coons (D-DE). ###
02.13.2013	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-SI/Brooklyn) voted for the Federal Disaster Assistance Nonprofit Fairness Act of 2013 (H.R. 592), a bill that would allow churches, synagogues, mosques, and temples to be eligible for disaster relief aid. This would put houses of worship on a level playing field with other nonprofit organizations seeking disaster assistance. Rep. Grimm is a cosponsor of the bill that passed the House 354-72. “So many places of worship were severely damaged when Superstorm Sandy ravaged our coastlines. This bill will put them on a level playing field with other nonprofits by allowing them to apply for disaster assistance. This is not about religious favoritism, but about providing aid to repair structural damage to places that employ local residents and provide crucial services to those in need throughout our communities. I was proud to cosponsor this bill and urge the Senate to move quickly, so that our local churches and synagogues may have the means to rebuild quickly,” said Rep. Grimm. H.R. 592 clarifies that the Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, which funds the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) disaster relief program, is a general government program under which federal assistance following a natural disaster can be rendered using criteria that are neutral with regard to religion. Congress has previously enacted laws providing financial assistance to religious nonprofit institutions, including houses of worship, on terms equal to other eligible nonprofit organizations. There are precedents for federal aid to disaster-damaged houses of worship. After the Oklahoma City bombing in 1995, Congress overruled FEMA’s refusal to provide assistance to the damaged churches. In 2002, after an earthquake in Seattle, the Justice Department intervened to order FEMA to assist religious organizations damaged by the quake. The bill was introduced by Reps. Chris Smith (R-NJ) and Grace Meng (D-NY), and co-sponsored by Peter King (R-NY), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Trent Franks (R-AZ), Michael Grimm (R-NY), Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ), Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY) and Bill Pascrell Jr.(D-NJ). The bill has been endorsed by numerous organization and individuals, including Alan Dershowitz, Harvard Law Professor; American Jewish Committee; Council of New York City; Family Research Council; The Jewish Federations of North America; The Most Rev. William Murphy, Bishop of Rockville Centre (Long Island); N.J. State Assn. of Jewish Federations ; National Association of Evangelicals; Speaker Christine C. Quinn, Council of the City of New York; Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America; United Jewish Appeal (UJA) of N.Y. ; U.S. Catholic Conference of Bishops. ###
02.13.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Michael G. Grimm (R-NY), Gary Peters (D-MI), Austin Scott (R-GA), and Mike McIntyre (D-NC) reintroduced the Business Risk Mitigation and Price Stabilization Act of (H.R. 634), a bipartisan bill to clarify that true derivatives end-users are exempt from the margin requirements applied by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to many derivatives contracts. This exemption will allow end-users to continue to use derivatives to maintain low and stable prices for consumers and will free up capital that can be used to create jobs and keep American companies competitive. “American companies face endless obstacles that keep them from growing and creating new jobs. By removing the unnecessary margin posting requirements, we can help our businesses free up capital that can be used to hire new employees, keep prices low for American consumers, and help our companies remain competitive in the global economy. Last Congress, this legislation passed the House, and we will again move it quickly, so that the Senate may act without delay,” said Rep. Grimm. “We have bipartisan agreement that the use of derivatives by commercial end-users does not pose a risk to our economy. In states like Michigan, manufacturing companies use these contracts to lock in fixed prices and interest rates, allowing them to better plan and manage their cash flow. This narrowly crafted bill clarifies what Congress intended – commercial end-users who are not engaged in harmful speculation should not be required to divert capital away from job creation,” said Rep. Peters. “Job creation remains an integral part of our country’s recovery efforts. While we want to prevent another financial crisis, we must be careful not to place undue burdens on American jobs creators. This bill provides protection for American companies so they may have the necessary resources to create American jobs and compete in the global market,” said Rep. Scott. “Margin requirements place undue burden on responsible end-users in Eastern North Carolina! Our farmers, agriculture co-ops, and community banks use financial products to mitigate risk and provide security for their businesses. This bill will free up capital and allow businesses to plan for the future, shield these plans from risk, and provide certainty needed to create American jobs!” said Rep. McIntyre. True end-users are companies that use derivatives to manage an actual business risk - generally to hedge against fluctuating prices, currency rates, or interest rates - and not to speculate. This bill clarifies Congressional intent of Dodd-Frank by exempting end-users that use derivatives to hedge legitimate business risk from posting margin. Forcing true end-users to post margin can have several negative consequences: 1) the costs of hedging could be become so high that they stop hedging, resulting in a detrimental rise in prices for consumers; 2) capital will be restricted that would otherwise be used for job creation or reinvestment to make American companies more competitive in the global economy; and 3) high costs of hedging could drive business overseas to foreign derivatives markets. H.R. 634 eliminates the margin requirement and thus helps prevent these negative consequences from occurring. This legislation passed the House last Congress on March 26, 2012 with a vote of 370-24. Reps. Grimm and Peters serve on the House Financial Services Committee, and Reps. Scott and McIntyre serve on the House Agriculture Committee. Both committees have jurisdiction over this legislation. ###
02.11.2013	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the announcement that Pope Benedict XVI will resign on February 28th: "Like most Catholics throughout the world, I was surprised and saddened to hear the news of Pope Benedict’s resignation. For seven years, he served honorably as our holy pontiff, seeking to reawaken Christianity throughout the world. "One sign of a great leader is knowing when to step down. While we are shocked by this news, I commend Pope Benedict for putting the future of the Catholic Church before all else, and today I join Catholics around the world in praying for his health and well-being. "It is too early to determine the full extent of Pope Benedict’s legacy; however, New Yorkers will never forget the gift he gave us with the elevation of Cardinal Dolan. Cardinal Dolan has lifted the spirits of Catholics and non-Catholics throughout New York and the world, and renewed the faith of many. If it were up to me to pick the next pope, Cardinal Dolan would have my vote!" ###
02.06.2013	WASHINGTON, DC- Reps. Michael Grimm (R-NY), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Pete Sessions (R-TX), André Carson (D-IN), Peter King (R-NY), Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Dennis Ross (R-FL), Timothy Bishop (D-NY), and Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY) introduce the TRIA Reauthorization Act of 2013 to extend the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program for five years, through December 31, 2019. TRIA was first authorized in 2002, and is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2014. “New York City remains the number one terror target in the country, which is why it is imperative to be prepared should we face another tragic attack. TRIA establishes a critical public-private partnership whereby the federal government creates a backstop for private insurers on terrorism related losses. If TRIA expires, not only will we expose our nation to great financial risk, we could see the availability of terrorism insurance diminish. It would be irresponsible to allow TRIA to lapse, which is why I introduced the TRIA Reauthorization Act to extend this vital program for another five years,” said Rep. Grimm. “New York City remains a top target for terrorists and TRIA is absolutely essential to the city’s economic well-being. A five year extension of TRIA will to ensure that that the program will remain the backstop it has been since it was created in 2002 and allow investment in our city to continue without interruption. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure that Congress continues this vital program,” said Rep. Carolyn Maloney “After years of working in counterterrorism, I fully recognize not only the risk of a terrorist attack, but the significant economic impact it could have on communities across the country. TRIA is critical as we continue to combat terror around the world, ensuring that victims can focus on what really matters—caring for those impacted and rebuilding their lives—instead of worrying about how to cover the costs of damage. I am proud to join with this bipartisan group to introduce the TRIA Reauthorization Act and ensure there is no lapse in coverage for communities, businesses or families that could be hurt by an act of terrorism,” said Rep. Carson. "TRIA is essential to stabilizing the market for terrorism risk insurance and has provided certainty for New York businesses operating in an unfortunate era of terrorist threats. While the current authorization expires in 2014, it is my hope the Congress does not wait until the deadline to reauthorize this vital program," said Rep. Meeks. “Through TRIA, the federal government has demonstrated it can play a positive role in spurring necessary, private market insurance. I am a cosponsor of this legislation because I believe these kinds of backstops are one of the best ways to protect the taxpayer from bailouts and encourage communities at risk to take steps needed to protect against future insurance claims,” said Rep. Ross. “I am proud to be an original cosponsor of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act to provide a system of shared public and private compensation for insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism. This legislation is critically important to ensure that construction projects, lending, and other activities vital to our continuing recovery will not be jeopardized,” said Rep. Bishop. “At almost no cost to the taxpayer, the national terrorism insurance program has made it possible for more than a decade for businesses to purchase terrorism risk coverage. Having a federal terrorism insurance public/private risk sharing partnership in place in advance …allows for the timely and orderly payout of claims to the victims of terrorism after an attack, thereby reducing or eliminating ultimate taxpayer exposure and minimizing the economic fallout from the next terrorist attack. CIAT wholeheartedly endorses your efforts to extend this vital terrorism insurance program beyond December 31, 2014,” stated in a letter from the Coalition to Insure Against Terrorism. Before the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, terrorism coverage was included in general insurance policies. After September 11th, terrorism insurance became very expensive, or unavailable. Congress responded by passing the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA) of 2002 which created the Terrorism Insurance Program – a program in which the government would share some of the losses with private insurance in the event of another attack. An individual act of terrorism must be certified jointly by the Secretary of the Treasury, Secretary of State, and Attorney General, and losses must exceed $5 million. The federal government shares in an insurer's losses only if the insurance industry's aggregate insured losses from certified acts of terrorism exceed $100 million, throughout the entire industry. The amount of the government share varies depending on the size of uninsured losses. Each insurer is responsible for paying out a certain amount in claims—known as its deductible—before receiving federal coverage. An insurer's deductible is proportionate to its size, equaling 20% of an insurer's annual direct earned premiums for TRIA-covered lines of insurance. Once the $100 million aggregate loss threshold and 20% deductible are passed, the federal government is to cover 85% of each insurer's losses above its deductible up until the amount of losses totals $100 billion. The $100 billion figure is total losses not just federal assistance. In addition, TRIA contains important taxpayer protections. In the event of government losses due to an act of terrorism the Treasury is able to recoup losses by applying a surcharge to future insurance premiums to repay these losses over time. If TRIA were to lapse at the end of 2014 billions, possibly trillions, in commercial loans that are required to have terrorism insurance would be in technical default and could be called in, creating a massive financial and economic disruption. ###
02.01.2013	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the passing of former NYC Mayor Ed Koch: “Today is a sad day for New York City as we mourn the loss of Mayor Ed Koch. Perhaps our most colorful mayor, he touched the lives of many with his big personality, candor, and unadulterated dedication to serving New York City. The Bronx-born son of Polish immigrants truly lived the American dream. A World War II veteran, NYC councilman, US congressman, and 12 years as the mayor of NYC – his life is marked with decades of service. “For a man who has dedicated his life to serving the greatest city on earth, a bridge can never do his legacy justice. Instead, his pure love for New York City and zest for life will live on in the hearts of all New Yorkers who share his passion for our great city. Today, my thoughts and prayers are with his family, friends, and all New Yorkers who are saddened by the passing of Mayor Ed Koch.” ###
01.28.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-SI/Brooklyn) applauded the U.S. Senate for passing the Superstorm Sandy Supplemental Appropriations Bill (HR 152), which will now be sent to the president’s desk to be signed into law. Rep. Grimm led efforts in the House to secure the necessary votes to pass the $50.5 billion emergency aid package on January 15th. “Tonight the Sandy relief bill has cleared its final hurdle,” said Grimm. “Relief is now in sight for so many in Staten Island and Brooklyn who have waited far too long for this assistance. Once this bill becomes law, we will have more funding to continue helping our homeowners and small business owners get back on their feet, begin repairing NYC’s devastated infrastructure, and give the Army Corps of Engineers the resources it needs to begin fortifying our shoreline.” “So many of us have fought hard in Washington to move this bill forward, and today I applaud the efforts of Senator Schumer and Gillibrand to push this bill through the Senate and onto the president’s desk,” said Grimm. “I urge President Obama to sign this bill without delay, so that funds may begin flowing to New York City and into the hands of those who desperately need it to rebuild.” This relief package will help NYC rebuild in a variety of ways. It will help homeowners and business owners fill in gaps left by FEMA and uninsured losses – giving them funding to help with repairs and mitigation. It will give the Army Corps of Engineers the resources to expedite a delayed feasibility study, so that we can move forward on plans for a seawall to protect Staten Island’s coast. It will allow NYC to begin rebuilding large-scale projects, such as the Whitehall Subway Station that could otherwise remain closed indefinitely without federal aid to cover the $600 million cost of repairs. This funding will also help rebuild the Manhattan VA Hospital, as well as the Coney Island Hospital, which has over 300,000 outpatient visits per year and has over 2,300 employees. The Coney Island Hospital suffered severe damage to its mechanical systems, and cannot make repairs to critical infrastructure (electric, medical gas systems, etc) or move them to higher ground without federal aid. ###
01.25.2013	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY)announced that the deadline has been extended an additional 30 days to February 27th for Superstorm Sandy survivors to register for FEMA and apply for low-interest Small Business Administration (SBA) disaster loans. “For many on Staten Island, the funding from FEMA and insurance claims is simply not enough to cover the cost of recovery,” said Rep. Grimm. “An SBA loan provides a low-interest option to homeowners and businesses in need of additional funding to make repairs and replace damaged items in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy. Many home and business owners have been caught up in the red tape of their insurance companies, and had to delay applying for loans as they await the claim. Extending the deadline provides extra time to fully assess the damage and apply for the appropriate amount of assistance.” Those who have sustained losses due to Hurricane Sandy should register with FEMA even if they have insurance. Applying by the deadline may help survivors avoid a funding shortfall if they later find that they are underinsured or have additional damages. By returning the SBA disaster loan application, homeowners may be eligible for up to $200,000 to repair or replace their storm-damaged primary residence. Homeowners and renters may be eligible for up to $40,000 for replacement of personal property. Businesses and private nonprofits may be eligible to borrow up to $2 million to repair or replace storm-damaged property. As of January 22, 2013, for Richmond County, SBA has approved $82,299,000 in home loan applications and $7,978,300 in business loans, for a total of $90, 277,300. For more information or to apply or to apply for a loan, please visit www.sba.gov. Applicants may also apply online using the Electronic Loan Application (ELA) via SBA’s secure website at https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela or by calling 1- 800-659-2955.
01.23.2013	TODAY - U.S. Senator Charles E. Schumer and Congressman Michael Grimm today announced that the National Park Service (NPS) Director Jonathan Jarvis has agreed to maintain Nichols Marina at Great Kills Park on Staten Island. Earlier in the month, Schumer and Grimm stood alongside local boaters and called on NPS to commit to maintaining the marina at Great Kills Park and allow it to rebuild after 350 of its boat slips were swept away due to Superstorm Sandy. Schumer and Grimm have been advocating on behalf of the “Committee to Save Great Kills Park Marina Community,” and today personally met with NPS Director Jonathan Jarvis. After the meeting today, Schumer and Grimm announced that NPS will issue a three year concession contract to the current operator, Marinas of the Future. This will allow the Marina to remain open. “This is great news for Staten Island’s boating community and our local economy,” said Grimm. “I’d like to thank NPS Director Jonathan Jarvis for working with me and Senator Schumer in reaching a quick agreement to rebuild Nichols Marina. The marina has served generations of Staten Islanders, and this agreement will allow it to rebuild quickly to continue its long-standing service to our community.” “Thousands of boaters on Staten Island can finally breathe a sigh of relief because Nichols Marina will continue to be their home away from home and remain at Great Kills Park,” said Schumer. “The National Park Service initially made the wrong decision, but I am glad that Mr. Jarvis has corrected the error and sees that allowing Nicholas Marina to rebuild is clearly the right thing to do. The marina at Great Kills is a center of community life for so many Staten Islanders and I am very pleased that it will be back up and operating for the coming season and beyond. This is yet another reason why passing the Sandy relief bill was so important for our recovery and I’d like to thank Congressman Grimm for his hard work on this issue.” Schumer and Grimm today announced that after this morning’s meeting with NPS Director Jarvis, the agency has committed to maintain the marina at Great Kills Park. The current operator, “Marinas of the Future,” will be issued a three year emergency contract. Under law, three years is the maximum amount that NPS can issue an emergency concession contract. “Marinas of the Future” received $1.4 million from their insurance company and if more money is necessary, NPS Director Jarvis committed to provide the marina with additional funding from the Sandy Aid Package. There is approximately $348 million of NPS funding in the Sandy Aid Package. This funding can be used to repair the wooden boat slips and bulkhead. Additionally, NPS Director Jarvis explained that after the three year emergency contract, the agency will issue a long-term competitive contract, with the goal of expanding services at the marina. Nichols Great Kills Park Marina is part of Gateway National Recreation area, which is federally owned land, and the marina’s operator, Marina’s of the Future, runs the marina as an NPS concessionaire. Superstorm Sandy destroyed the marina and its 350 floating wooden boat slips were washed away because of the storm. The concession lease expired on December 31st. As a result, a number of Staten Island residents formed a group known as, “The Committee to Save Great Kills Park Marina Community.” Schumer and Grimm have been working with the committee after receiving dozens and dozens of petitions from the committee asking for their support in rebuilding the marina. On January 16th, Schumer and Grimm requested a personal meeting with NPS Director Jarvis to discuss the importance of Nichols Marina.
01.22.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-Staten Island/Brooklyn) issued the following statement in response to the news that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has won the Israeli election: “I congratulate Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu for his election victory. Israel has always been our close ally, and Netanyahu has helped make our friendship even stronger. His leadership, conviction, and dedication to peace and regional security make him and excellent partner in achieving our mutual goals. Together, we have stood in support of democracy and the sovereign Jewish State of Israel, and against ongoing threats from the Palestinian Authority and Iran. “Today is a good day for Americans and Israelis knowing that Netanyahu will serve another term. His victory will give us the opportunity to continue to build and strengthen the strong bond between the US and Israel for years to come, as we work together in support of peace, security, and democracy.”
01.22.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement in response to Governor Andrew Cuomo’s 2013-2014 NY State Budget announcement: “Governor Cuomo made it clear today that he is fully committed to working with our communities to rebuild in the aftermath of Superstorm Sandy. ‘Build it back, build it better’ is a smart investment in our future that will allow Staten Island and Brooklyn to rebuild better and stronger than before. I thank the governor for his commitment to the rebuilding effort and making it a top priority in his 2013-2014 budget proposal. I look forward to continuing to work with him and the city to ensure that the funding reaches the areas and individuals most in need, as quickly as possible.” ###
01.15.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) voted for the Superstorm Sandy Supplemental Appropriations Bill (HR 152), which passed the House 241-180. Rep. Grimm has been a leader in the House, working closely with the New York and New Jersey delegation to secure the necessary votes to pass the $51 billion emergency aid package. The bill must now pass the Senate. “I have poured my heart and soul into this effort – working tirelessly to secure the support to pass this bill and bring relief to the people of Staten Island,” said Rep. Grimm. “There’s no question that this vote should have happened much sooner; however, I am proud to return to my district knowing that we won the battle in the House. Once this bill becomes law, we will have the rest of the funding to continue helping our homeowners and small business owners get back on their feet, begin repairing NYC’s devastated infrastructure, and give the Army Corps of Engineers the resources it needs to begin fortifying our shoreline.” “This funding will never make up for the loss and devastation that was felt by so many throughout Staten Island and the region, but it can help restore some semblance of normality to lives that have been turned upside down,” added Grimm. “I am grateful to represent such an extraordinary and resilient constituency, and feel truly privileged to play a role in delivering the aid needed to help our communities rebuild.” This $51 billion package will help NYC rebuild in a variety of ways. It will help homeowners and business owners fill in gaps left by FEMA and uninsured losses. It will give the Army Corps of Engineers the resources to expedite a delayed feasibility study, so that we can move forward on plans for a seawall. It will allow NYC to begin rebuilding large-scale projects, such as the Whitehall Subway Station that could otherwise remain closed indefinitely without federal aid to cover the $600 million cost of repairs. This funding will also help rebuild the Manhattan VA Hospital, as well as the Coney Island Hospital, which has over 300,000 outpatient visits per year and has over 2,300 employees. The Coney Island Hospital suffered severe damage to its mechanical systems, and cannot make repairs to critical infrastructure (electric, medical gas systems, etc) or move them to higher ground without federal aid.
01.04.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-Staten Island/Brooklyn) applauded House passage of H.R. 41, a bill to provide $9.7 billion to replenish the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) by temporarily increasing the borrowing authority of FEMA in order to carry out the program. This week, the program will reach its borrowing cap of $21 billion ($20.725 billion), and this extension will allow flood insurance funds to continue to be dispersed to those devastated by the storm. “Today’s vote was a down payment on a much larger aid bill,” said Grimm. “The NFIP is at its limit, and without this additional borrowing authority, Superstorm Sandy survivors awaiting payments on their flood insurance claims would be forced to go without. This bill will replenish the NFIP with $9.7 billion, so that funding can be disbursed to some of the hardest hit areas – allowing rebuilding to continue without delay. I thank my colleagues voting in favor of this important flood insurance bill and hope to see the same level of support on January 15th to pass the remainder of the $60 billion in emergency aid bill.” This is the first piece of the $60 billion Superstorm Sandy Supplemental Appropriations Bill to be passed by the House. The Speaker has made a commitment that the remainder of the bill will come up for a vote on January 15th, the first day of legislative business in the 113th Congress. Rep. Grimm is an original cosponsor of H.R. 41, which passed with a vote of 354-67. It was introduced by Rep. Scott Garrett (R-NJ). Rep. Garrett and his wife visited Staten Island in the aftermath of the storm and helped volunteer with clean-up and relief. ###
01.03.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-S.I./Brooklyn) issued the following statement on the new Congress which will be called to order in the House at noon: “Today, we begin the 113th Congress and I am going to hit the ground running. We have a bold agenda, and I plan to play a lead role in moving it forward. Our first order of business is passing the $60 billion Superstorm Sandy aid bill, which is crucial to giving emergency funding to New York, New Jersey, and the most devastated areas. I fought hard for this legislation to come up for a vote, and despite a delay, we will get this passed. “Tomorrow, we will pass the first piece of the emergency aid package – providing $9 billion to the National Flood Insurance Program, with the remainder to be passed on January 15th, the first day of legislative business. This funding will give the city and state the much-needed resources to rebuild our damaged infrastructure and provide further aid to individuals and small businesses struggling to pick up the pieces of their lives. “As we move through the next Congress, I will continue to fight for the issues that matter most to the people I represent. Passing legislation to combat the outrageous toll hikes remains a top priority, and I will continue to push my own legislation, like the Stop the Excessive Toll Hikes Act, into law. I remain committed to passing bold reforms that break Washington’s addiction to spending and decrease our debt, reforming our tax code, and removing obstacles to job and business growth so that New York’s economy can thrive and create jobs. “In the district, I am proud to have hard-working staff that shares my dedication to serving the people of Staten Island and Brooklyn – going above and beyond the call of duty with casework to help constituents on an individual basis. Whether we are helping a Sandy survivor navigate FEMA or a veteran with their benefits, my staff is dedicated to assisting all individuals in need. “Over the last two years, I have had the pleasure to foster close relationships with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle. I look forward to working with members of the new Congress to break the partisan gridlock that is plaguing Washington and continuing my efforts to put the American people before politics. “I am thrilled that the people of Staten Island and Brooklyn have sent me back to Congress for a second term in office, and couldn’t be more proud to be their representative for the next two years.” ###
01.01.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-Staten Island/Brooklyn) issued the following statement on his vote to avert the Fiscal Cliff and permanently extend middle class tax cuts: “Tonight’s vote was necessary to prevent a tax hike on the middle class, and I commend Speaker Boehner for his leadership in working with House republicans as Congress moved forward with this difficult vote. Making tax cuts permanent for 99% of Americans is a huge victory for the American people. “I do have serious concerns that this package does not contain the necessary spending cuts to reduce our nation’s massive debt; however, with Senate Democrats refusing to take up any amended bill, the debate could drag on indefinitely – imposing a tax-hike on America’s middle class, pushing us over the ‘milk cliff’ and delaying the passage of other key provisions like the doc-fix and unemployment insurance. The reality is that we are out of time, and it would be irresponsible to continue to play politics with the lives of the American people or put our financial markets at risk by failing to act. “This is not the compromise I would have chosen – nor one that I intended to support - but after taking a closer read, the benefits do outweigh the costs as we move to protect the hard-working people of Staten Island and Brooklyn from a massive tax hike and further blow to their budgets. “As we begin the next Congress, I promise to continue the fight for spending cuts and responsible fiscal policies that put an end to our nation’s spending addiction and get our economy back on track.” ###
12.27.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Reid and Minority Leader McConnell urging the Senate to quickly pass the Superstorm Sandy Supplemental Appropriations Bill (H.R.1), so that the House may have time to act before the year’s end. The Senate began consideration of the $60.4 billion aid package last week and is scheduled to continue the debate this week. The emergency funds will provide much-needed aid to the hardest-hit areas, like New York and New Jersey, for their recovery efforts. “I’m urging Senate leadership to put the Sandy supplemental bill at the top of their to-do list this week,” said Rep. Grimm. “Congress is up against a lot of pressing deadlines, but the need for emergency disaster relief is beyond urgent; we simply cannot afford any more delays. The longer we put off action on a relief package, the harder it will be to ultimately pass – seriously jeopardizing New York’s ability to rebuild. That is why I am calling on the Senate to move quickly and will continue to work with my colleagues in the House to do the same.” ### The text of the letter is posted below: December 27, 2012 The Honorable Harry Reid Majority Leader U.S. Senate Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Mitch McConnell Minority Leader U.S. Senate Washington, DC 20510 Dear Majority Leader Reid and Minority Leader McConnell: As the Senate reconvenes today, I am requesting that you make the Superstorm Sandy Supplemental Appropriations Bill (H.R.1) a legislative priority, and move it swiftly through debate and passage, so that the House may have time to act. Time is of the essence and we simply cannot afford to push this off to the next Congress. Many areas remain devastated from Superstorm Sandy, and this emergency funding is crucial to rebuilding efforts in the hardest hit areas. In New York City, we have one of the oldest and the largest public transportation system in the country. The flood damage was significant, destroying subway infrastructure and leaving some key stations at risk of remaining permanently closed in the absence of funding. This emergency funding will allow the reconstruction to begin without delay. The funding is also needed to provide the Army Corps of Engineers with resources to expedite studies and begin repairs, as well as to replenish the National Flood Insurance Program. Finally, this funding is crucial to helping our devastated families and small businesses by giving them the assistance they need to rebuild. Having the privilege to represent Staten Island, one of the hardest hit areas, I have seen the devastation with my own eyes, and I assure you that the need is great. Congress has a history of providing aid to the American people in times of disaster and devastation. Just two weeks after Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans, Congress appropriated $62 billion in disaster aid. Those impacted by Superstorm Sandy have been waiting two months. We simply cannot afford to wait any longer. By its very nature, this supplemental bill is designed to provide “emergency” funding, and I thank you for your cooperation in moving quickly to help meet the urgent needs that have arisen as a result of the storm. I assure you that I remain engaged with House leadership on moving this bill forward quickly once it is received from the Senate. Sincerely, MICHAEL G. GRIMM Member of Congress
12.23.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael Grimm (R-NY) issued the following statement in response to the news that U.S. Marine Jon Hammar has been released from a Mexican prison and has arrived safely on American soil: “The release of Jon Hammar is truly a Christmas blessing. This innocent American hero was wrongfully detained for far too long. As a fellow Marine, I could not stand idly by without taking action to bring him home, and I am proud to have been a part of the effort in Congress that ultimately led to his release. I welcome Jon Hammar home with open arms, and I wish him and his family a very Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.” Rep. Grimm is a Marine combat veteran of the first Gulf War. Earlier this week he called for a U.S. boycott of travel to Mexico until Hammar’s release. ###
12.20.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-SI/Brooklyn) issued the following statement in reaction to the detainment of fellow U.S. Marine Jon Hammar in Mexico. Hammar has been detained in a drug cartel-controlled Mexican prison since August 13th when he declared an antique shotgun at the Texas-Mexico border and was charged with possessing a gun used by the Mexican military - a felony punishable up to 15 years in prison. “Until U.S. Marine Jon Hammar is released, I am calling on all Americans to cancel their vacations to Mexico and not to book any travel there. When Hammar carried an antique rifle across the U.S.-Mexico border, he did so after declaring it and getting clearance from U.S. Customs. He was operating under the impression that he was well within the limits of the law. For the Mexican government to detain him, chain him to his bed, and essentially put him on display like an animal is an absolute disgrace! “Hammar honorably served our country as a U.S. Marine, and we should be doing all we can to bring this innocent hero home. Marines always follow one rule: Never leave a man behind. As a fellow Marine, I will not leave Jon Hammar behind in Mexico, even if it means I have to go there myself to get him and bring him home.” Rep. Grimm is a Marine combat veteran of the first Gulf War. ###
12.19.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-S.I./Brooklyn) issued the following statement in response to today’s decision by the MTA board to raise fares and bridge tolls beginning in March. The cash toll on the Verrazano Bridge will go from $13 to $15. “The decision to raise tolls on the Verrazano Bridge to $15 is an outrage. The MTA board has made it crystal clear that we are nothing more to them than an ATM machine to pay for its complete inability to work within a budget. As the families and businesses of Staten Island struggle to rebuild and recover from Superstorm Sandy, this toll hike is just another blow to a borough that has already been knocked down. “How can our economy bounce back with the burden of tolls pushing us down? With these outrageous tolls, it will be impossible for Staten Island’s businesses to attract talent from outside the borough. They’ll lose their ability to compete and businesses will relocate or shut down. “Families are suffering too, beyond the strain on their already tightened budget. Residents with family members in Brooklyn and Brooklynites with families in Staten Island, have already cut back visits on account of the tolls, and this hike will make those visits even fewer. This rings true for seniors on a fixed income who may simply want to cross the bridge to have lunch with their children or grandchildren. The tolls will make them think twice. “In New York City we pride ourselves on being the best, but having the highest bridge toll in the world is a superlative that we could all do without.” ###
12.18.2012	NEW YORK, NY – On the eve of a vote by the Metropolitan Transit Authority to increase fares Congressman Michael Grimm (R-C, Brooklyn, S.I.), State Senator Martin J. Golden (R,C,I - Brooklyn), and Assemblywoman Nicole Malliotakis (R,C- Brooklyn, S.I.) are again urging MTA Chairman Joseph Lhota and all board members, to oppose the plan to raise tolls on the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge at tomorrow's meeting. The plan would make the Verrazano Bridge the most expensive bridge in the world. The MTA is considering a plan to raise the cash payment $2 dollars to $15 and the increase would be $1.06 for those with E-Z Pass. In the letter, authored by the three elected officials, it stated, “No time has been better than now for the MTA to show New Yorkers that it does in fact account for the personal financial responsibility of their customers when making such decisions. It is something that New Yorkers are not willing to accept. We hear this in our community, along our commercial avenues and in our homes. We ask you to oppose this plan and look forward to working with you to create a more fiscally responsible approach that will be more acceptable to our constituents." The complete letter sent last week is attached and below. ### December 13, 2012 MTA Chairman and CEO Joseph Lhota 347 Madison Avenue New York, New York 10017 Dear Chairman Lhota, We are compelled to write today in response to the announcement that the Metropolitan Transit Authority is set to vote next week on a proposal to significantly raise the toll on the Verrazano Narrows Bridge. As elected officials who represent many hard-working folks who travel this Bridge each and every day, we ask that the MTA Board reject such proposal. This proposal will hit the pockets of all New Yorkers who traverse the Verrazano Bridge for the purposes of work, shopping, medical care, family visits, and more. It is just unacceptable that the most expensive bridge in the world, already at $13, has the potential to become more expensive. To ask those who pay cash to spend an additional $2, and those with E-Z Pass to pay an additional $1.06, is simply outrageous. In these difficult economic times, the last thing New Yorkers need is the burden of additional travel expenses. The proposal now before the MTA will further strain the budgets of millions of New York’s families and cause a loss of revenue for countless businesses. This proposal is not only misguided, it is something New Yorkers are not willing to accept. We hear this in our community, along our commercial avenues, and in our homes. That is why we ask you to vote against this plan for the Verrazano Bridge, and engage us in a dialogue so to create a program that will offer a multiple trip discount plan similar to that of the Port Authority. No time has been better than now for the MTA to show New Yorkers that it does in fact account for the personal financial responsibility of their customers when making such decisions. On behalf of every single motorist who utilizes the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, we ask the MTA Board to oppose this plan. We look forward to working with you to create a more fiscally responsible approach that will be more acceptable to our constituents. Sincerely, Martin J. Golden Michael G. Grimm Nicole Malliotakis Member of the Senate Member of Congress Member of Assembly
12.12.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) urged federal and state officials to ensure that veterinarians from the National Veterinary Response Team (NVRT) remain onsite through the duration of the ASPCA (American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals) emergency animal boarding facility’s operation, which the congressman has requested be extended through January 6, 2013. Representative Grimm has contacted federal and state officials to ask that additional resources be granted so NVRT veterinarians can remain in service, after learning late yesterday that today is the last scheduled shift for the NVRT. The ASPCA opened its emergency boarding facility in Brooklyn on November 17, 2012 for animals from families displaced by Superstorm Sandy. The NVRT team of four veterinarians has been providing medical care for more than 200 animals and is scheduled to leave the shelter today. Roughly 25 percent of the pets are from Staten Island. “Losing the veterinarian team now could be detrimental to the health and wellbeing of the animals housed in the ASPCA emergency shelter,” said Grimm. “Furthermore, with Christmas around the corner and many families still without homes, extending the operation of the shelter through January would lift a burden on those who are already facing tremendous hardship. I am making these two urgent requests to ensure that families displaced by Superstorm Sandy will have one less thing to worry about this holiday season, knowing that their pets are safe and well-cared for throughout holidays.” “We are grateful to Representative Grimm for his abiding concern and affirmative actions on behalf of the families and the pets in his district,” said Dick Green, director of disaster response for the ASPCA. "The consistent presence of NVERT veterinarians at this facility has been particularly critical, and we are hopeful they will stay on to ensure the well-being and care for these pets.” Rep. Grimm is sending the letter attached and posted below urging the NVRT to remain in place. ### December 12, 2012 The Honorable W. Craig Fugate Administrator Federal Emergency Management Agency U.S. Department of Homeland Security 500 C Street SW Washington, DC 20472 The Honorable Jerome H. Hauer Commissioner NYS Division of Homeland Security 1220 Washington Avenue, Suite 101 Albany, NY 12226 The Honorable Nicole Lurie, M.D. Assistant Secretary for Preparedness & Response U.S. Department of Health & Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, DC 20201 The Honorable Darrel J. Aubertine Commissioner NYS Department of Agriculture 10B Airline Drive Albany, NY 12235 Dear Administrator Fugate, Dr. Lurie, Commissioner Hauer, and Commissioner Aubertine: I am writing today to request your urgent help with ensuring that hundreds of New York City animals whose families suffered great losses due to Superstorm Sandy do not go without the veterinary care they need. It has come to my attention that the services provided by a National Veterinary Response Team (NVRT) at the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals’ (ASPCA) shelter in Brooklyn are scheduled to be withdrawn. I request an extension that will allow the shelter to remain open through January 6th and ask that the veterinarian team remain on site through the full duration of the shelter’s operation. In the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy, New York City Animal Care and Control (ACC) asked the ASPCA to establish an Emergency Boarding Facility (EBF) in Brooklyn, NY. The purpose of the facility is to shelter pets owned by area citizens who lost their homes or are otherwise unable to provide housing or medical care for their pets as a result of Hurricane Sandy. The ASPCA opened the facility on November 17 and over the last 3 ½ weeks has housed approximately 270 animals. On November 5, the ASPCA and ACC made a request to the New York City Office of Emergency Management for veterinary teams to provide medical care for the animals. That request was sent to the NY State Department of Agriculture and Markets and eventually signed by Commissioner Aubertine and forwarded to the State Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services where it was signed and forwarded to FEMA. The request was filled by a National Veterinary Response Team (NVRT) from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. NVRT has supported the Emergency Boarding Facility by providing consistent quality of care that could not be filled by the private sector. The life-saving work of this emergency shelter will provide a working model for future disasters. The NVRT teams average close to 200 patient “encounters” daily, giving care that is critical for an at-risk population. On November 30, the ASPCA made a request to NYC OEM for the NVRT mission to be extended to January 6. This extension will enable victims of the storm to know that their beloved pets are safe and cared for over the holiday season as they rebuild the lives. Unfortunately, that request has not been signed by DHSES and unless the mission is extended, the NVRT will demobilize at the close of business tomorrow. The facility population is currently 212 pets and last week, an upper respiratory infection outbreak occurred impacting nearly 50% of the population. It is absolutely critical that the appropriate state and federal agencies work together to facilitate the continued services of the NVRT team. I am including each of you in this communication with the hope that you can act quickly to ensure that the federal, state, and NGO’s can continue to work cooperatively to provide this vital care for affected families in and around New York City The New York City Office of Emergency Management initiated the request for NVRT. All NYC requests for State support begin with the completion of a Disaster LAN (tasking number). The request for support at the Emergency Boarding Facility was assigned number 102909. NY State Department of Agriculture and Markets: I am requesting that NYS Department of Agriculture and Markets support the ASPCA’s request for an extension of NVRT’s services. Since the DLAN was animal-related, the original request started with Agriculture and Markets and the extension must again be approved by this department. The department has been extremely supportive to the animal response since Superstorm Sandy reached New York. NY State Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services: I am requesting that NYS DHSES approve the ASPCA’s request for an extension of NVRT’s services. The State cost share for federal assets is 25%. Fortunately, the State’s cost-share can be offset by in-kind donations including volunteer hours. The Emergency Boarding Facility is managed by the ASPCA but dependent on a large number of volunteers from the Mayor’s Alliance for New York City’s Animals, NYC Veterinary Emergency Response Team, ASPCA Response Partners, and members of the National Animal Rescue and Sheltering Coalition. To date, there have been over 326 volunteers from 20 agencies donating more than 10,000 hours to support the Boarding Facility. These hours will almost certainly offset the 25% State cost-share. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA): I am requesting that FEMA approve the ASPCA’s request for an extension of NVRT’s services. Any request for federal assets typically comes to FEMA where if accepted, will be tasked to the appropriate agency or contractor. In the case of the Emergency Boarding Facility, the request for veterinary support was filled by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the National Veterinary Response Team. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS): I am requesting that HHS approve the ASPCA’s request for an extension of NVRT’s services. Mission assignments for veterinary care are filled by the National Veterinary Response Team (NVRT). In the case of NYC, NVRT was assigned four missions, the fourth being support for the EBF. NVRT has teams available to continue the operation starting with an extension of the current team and a “reloading” of another team at the end of the week. I would greatly appreciate your support in retaining NVRT as they are critical in the ongoing care of animals impacted by Superstorm Sandy. I am extremely concerned with the well-being of the population and to attempt to fill the veterinary needs through the public sector will undoubtedly place these animals at greater risk. Ensuring that pets are well cared for is a cornerstone of the recovery for my affected constituents and I trust you will act swiftly to enable this vital NVRT care can continue. I am most grateful for any help you can provide. Sincerely, Michael Grimm Member of Congress
12.10.2012	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-S.I./Brooklyn) sent a letter to MTA Chairman Joseph Lhota requesting that the S53 bus route be extended to include a stop at the Brooklyn Veterans Administration Medical Center. The S53’s current route forces disabled and ill veterans to make a transfer to the B70 in order to go just an extra half mile to reach the Brooklyn VA. “With the Manhattan VA closed due to damage from Superstorm Sandy, local veterans have no choice but to go to Brooklyn for their healthcare needs, and for some, the bus is the only option,” said Rep. Grimm. “Transferring buses just a half a mile from the hospital simply doesn’t make sense – especially for our elderly and disabled veterans who could greatly benefit from a more direct route that keeps them from waiting outside in the cold. As a Marine combat veteran, I always try to help those who have served our great nation, which is why, on behalf of our local veterans, I urge Chairman Lhota to extend the MTA’s S53 bus route to the Brooklyn VA.” ### A copy of the letter sent to Chairman Lhota is attached and pasted below: December 10, 2012 The Honorable Joseph J. Lhota Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Metropolitan Transportation Authority 347 Madison Avenue New York, NY 10017-3739 Dear Chairman Lhota: I am writing to you to request an extension of the MTA’s S53 bus route to include a stop at the Brooklyn Veterans Administration Medical Center. The S53’s current route forces disabled and ill veterans to make a transfer to the B70 in order to get the essential medical treatment to which they are entitled. To add insult to injury, the transfer is only needed to make a half mile trip down the road. This problem was made far worse when Superstorm Sandy caused extensive flood damage to the Manhattan VA, which in some cases is more accessible via mass transit. This hospital remains closed for outpatient services until March 2013 and indefinitely for inpatient services. Staten Island veterans now have no choice but to make the difficult journey to Brooklyn. In government, we are often faced with complex problems that require creative answers. This is not the case with this issue. Extending the S53 bus route to the Brooklyn VA is common sense solution that will make healthcare far more accessible to our veterans. Many of them paid a hefty price to give us the freedom we currently enjoy, and this is an opportunity to give a little back in return. Thank you for your consideration of this matter, and I look forward to your prompt reply. Sincerely, Michael G. Grimm Member of Congress
12.05.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-SI/Brooklyn) issued the following statement in response to reports that the White House plans to ask Congress for roughly $45 to $55 billion in recovery aid: “Today’s news that the president plans to ask Congress for roughly $50 billion in recovery aid certainly falls short of our needs. President Obama saw firsthand the devastation throughout Staten Island and the region, and I respectfully urge the White House to keep our recovery needs in mind and to reconsider the amount of disaster relief funding to more adequately reflect the necessities laid out by our governor and mayor. “Governor Cuomo has shown exceptional leadership in assessing New York’s needs and making only the most essential recovery aid requests. He has reached out to the New York delegation, and we stand united in our efforts to seek as much aid as possible to help New York recover. I also continue to work with my Republican colleagues in the House to gain their support for any emergency relief package. “While we are all working to strike a balance as we approach the fiscal cliff, this issue is the farthest thing from the minds of my constituents in Staten Island who are struggling to pick up the pieces of their lives as they rebuild or start over. “No matter how well we prepared, no one could have anticipated the amount of devastation caused by Hurricane Sandy. New York was once again attacked – and while this time it was by an act of God and not an act of terrorism - I believe we as a nation have a responsibility to provide adequate aid to those suffering from the wrath of Hurricane Sandy, and will do all I can to deliver that aid to the people I represent.” NY is seeking $42 billion in recovery aid. The total aid being sought by NY, NJ, and CT is reported at $82 billion. ###
11.27.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the New York City Natural Gas Supply Enhancement Act (H.R. 2606) sponsored by Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-S.I./Brooklyn) and introduced with Reps. Gregory Meeks (D-Queens) and Robert Turner (R-Brooklyn/Queens), was signed into law by President Barack Obama. The bill allows for the construction and operation of natural gas pipeline facilities in the New York portion of the Gateway National Recreation Area, creating up to 300 local construction jobs, generating revenue, and bringing clean energy to New York City. This is Rep. Grimm’s second bill to be signed into law. “In the aftermath of Sandy, New York City is in desperate need of revenue and jobs, which is why I am thrilled that my legislation was signed into law today,” said Rep. Grimm. “The NYC Natural Gas Supply Enhancement Act is the perfect example of government supporting private sector job growth here in NYC – without any federal spending – while bringing clean, affordable energy to our residents and businesses. At a time when many in NYC have suffered such great loss, this is welcomed news as we seek to rebuild our local economy and our communities.” “Today, the president signed the New York City Natural Gas Enhancement Act into law which will finally make the construction and operation of a new natural gas pipeline in New York City a reality,” said Mayor Michael Bloomberg. “Given the destruction of Hurricane Sandy, this law could not come at a more critical time for New York City. This pipeline will help us build a stable, clean-energy future for New Yorkers and will ensure the reliability of the City’s future energy needs.” H.R. 2606 allows for a joint effort between the private sector and all levels of governments, greatly benefitting New York City without any additional federal spending. The project is estimated to generate approximately $265 million in construction activity, almost 300 local construction jobs, and about $8 million in annual local property taxes. It will also help bring additional economical natural gas to New York City and will restore the hangers at Floyd Bennett Field to historical standards at no cost to the government. The current pipeline system serving the Brooklyn and Queens portion of NYC was built 40 to 60 years ago and can no longer meet current demand. H.R. 2606 will allow for a new pipeline to be built off the existing Williams pipeline that currently brings natural gas from New Jersey to Long Island. The new pipeline will pass underneath Jacob Riis Park in the Rockaways portion of Queens and under Jamaica Bay to a new meter and regulator station on Floyd Bennett Field in Brooklyn. The planned route will avoid residential, commercial, and environmentally sensitive areas. This project was included in the PlaNYC2030 report and is supported by the City of New York, the National Parks Service, and the Regional Plan Association. It first passed the House on February 6, 2012. ###
11.27.2012	BROOKLYN, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-S.I./Brooklyn) sent a letter to Governor Andrew Cuomo and Mayor Michael Bloomberg urging them to request a FEMA mission assignment to repair the damaged Brooklyn seawall. Under a mission assignment, the repairs could be made using FEMA funding, but the request must be made by the City and State. “The flooding of the Belt Parkway is not a new issue, but one that has become increasingly worse with recent storms,” said Rep. Grimm. “Our crumbling seawall took another severe beating from Sandy, and without repairs, the flooding brought on by another storm could be detrimental to the Brooklyn community and the security of New York City. That is why I am urging the City and the State to request a FEMA mission assignment that would provide the Army Corps of Engineers with necessary resources to begin repairs without delay.” Last year, the Brooklyn seawall suffered significant damage from Hurricane Irene, which was further exacerbated by Hurricane Sandy. ### A copy of the letter is below: November 27, 2012 Dear Governor Cuomo and Mayor Bloomberg, I am writing to you regarding the need to restore the Brooklyn seawall which was significantly damaged by Hurricane Sandy and is in need of immediate repairs. It is my understanding that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers may take on this project with FEMA funding at the request of the City and State. Therefore, I respectfully ask for your assistance in requesting a FEMA mission assignment to swiftly begin repairs. The areas near 14th Avenue, 17th Avenue, and 95th Street are noticeably compromised and left with little protection. When the seawall is compromised, it can no longer provide a buffer to prevent the flooding of the Belt Parkway, which is a crucial thoroughfare for residents and emergency vehicles. The Belt Parkway also provides access to Fort Hamilton, which is not only an active military base but serves as a staging area for current relief efforts as well as in past crises like 9/11. Finally, the missing railing and broken wall are a safety hazard to those running and fishing in the area. Given the crucial role the seawall plays in the safety of Brooklyn’s residents and the security of New York City in times of crisis, I ask you to request a FEMA mission assignment without delay. Thank you again for your prompt attention to this matter, and I look forward to your reply. Sincerely, Michael G. Grimm
11.19.2012	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-NY) announced the arrival of an ASPCA (American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals) mobile intake center on Staten Island. On Wednesday, pet owners will be able to leave their pets in the mobile units on Staten Island, so that they may be transported to a safe and secure emergency boarding shelter. Boarding services will be provided to pet owners who have been displaced by Hurricane Sandy for the next 4 weeks. “As a pet owner, I would never want to leave my dog behind,” said Rep. Grimm. “Unfortunately, many families displaced by Hurricane Sandy have been forced to make the choice between a putting a roof over their heads and keeping their pet safe. I am thrilled to announce the arrival of the ASPCA intake unit on Staten Island, which will give displaced families the assurance that their pets will remain safe and properly cared for while they work to rebuild or find more permanent housing.” “The ASPCA is very thankful that Congressman Grimm is allowing us access in Staten Island to help animals in need,” said Tim Rickey, senior director of ASPCA Field Investigations and Response. “Setting up an intake site at that location will enable our responders to provide convenient and safe transport for more animals from Staten Island to our emergency boarding facility in Brooklyn, where we’ll be housing and caring for them for the next 30 days as their owners get back on their feet.” The intake center will be open Wednesday from 8am – 4:30pm at Midland Beach at Father Capodanno Boulevard and Hunter Avenue. Rep. Grimm helped secure the location. For more information on helping provide hurricane relief to animals, visit www.aspca.org or call the Hurricane Sandy pet hotline at (347) 573-1561. ###
11.12.2012	STATEN ISLAND - Congressman Michael Grimm (R-Staten Island/Brooklyn) warns residents of health and structural risks when rebuilding their homes in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy. Many homes on Staten Island were flooded and are at risk of growing mold, contaminated with backed-up sewage, or exposed to diesel fuel leaks. If homes are not properly rebuilt, the integrity of the home could be compromised and health risks could arise. “Mold and other contaminants pose a tremendous threat to our homes and the health of those living inside,” said Grimm. “Staten Islanders are eager to move forward and rebuild, but there’s more to it than just throwing up new sheetrock - precise steps must be taken to fully dry out a home and eliminate any mold before repairs can begin. There is a lot of misinformation out there on rebuilding a home, which is why my office is educating the public on the issue, in order to avoid safety hazards and costly complications months from now once the home is rebuilt and no longer eligible for insurance or FEMA aid.” This morning, Rep. Grimm hosted a meeting in his Staten Island District Office for Staten Island’s elected officials with environmental experts who advised on proper clean-up and repairs to prevent mold, illness, and further damage. They advised that once water is pumped out and personal items removed, that sheetrock, insulation, and siding must also be removed in order to allow the structure to completely dry out before rebuilding. Dryness can be measured with a moisture meter. If there is visible mold growth, it must be removed by a professional before rebuilding can begin. Rebuilding without removing mold or drying out the house could lead to dangerous, unhealthy, and costly complications that could threaten the existence of the home and jeopardize the health of the residents. For complete guidelines on how to properly repair homes, http://www.epa.gov/iaq/flood/index.html. ###
10.31.2012	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-Staten Island/Brooklyn) urged residents to report damage and file claims with FEMA. The president issued the major disaster declaration for New York State the night Hurricane Sandy hit, making residents immediately eligible to apply for aid. Rep. Grimm urges residents to take multiple photos of the damage and first file a claim with their insurance company, then FEMA right away. “It is welcoming news that New York received an immediate major disaster declaration, which means that residents can begin applying for FEMA aid,” said Rep. Grimm. “In order to maximize the assistance provided by FEMA, I encourage residents to take pictures before cleaning up to effectively capture the extent of the damage, as well as save all receipts for supplies and equipment. I have been in the field for the last few days to assess the damage and help with relief, and while the devastation is some of the worst we’ve ever seen, I know that as a community we will get through this. I remain committed to helping residents recover from the storm damage and my staff is fully available to assist with any questions or problems that may arise throughout the application process.” Residents may apply for aid at http://www.DisasterAssistance.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY). Residents are encouraged to immediately photograph all damage and to save receipts for any supplies or equipment purchased. Residents should first file a claim with their insurance companies. Next, they should immediately file with FEMA. Once a claim is filed, a FEMA inspector will be in touch within a few days to schedule a visit. Once an assessment is made, compensation will be mailed or direct deposited several days later to those who are eligible. FEMA provides up to $31,900 in aid to individuals and households for a variety of needs; although, some forms of Individuals and Households Program (IHP) assistance have limits. Flood insurance may be required. These forms of help are available through FEMA: Housing Assistance (including Temporary Housing, Repair, Replacement, and Semi-Permanent or Permanent Housing Construction) and Other Needs Assistance (including personal property and other items). For more information, please see the attached sheet from FEMA.
10.26.2012	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-Staten Island/Brooklyn) urged constituents to monitor the course of Hurricane Sandy and take preparations as needed. He has provided a list of resources to help residents get ready should action be needed. The storm is expected to hit New York early next week, when it has the potential to escalate into a super-storm. “My staff and I have been in contact with FEMA and continue to closely monitoring the course and strength of Hurricane Sandy,” said Grimm. “Last year, Hurricane Irene tore through the region, flooding parts of Staten Island and Brooklyn and causing costly damage to homes and businesses, so it’s important that we take the potential storm threat seriously and prepare appropriately. Safety remains my number one priority and I encourage all residents to update their emergency supplies and first aid kits, as well as check in with neighbors who may need assistance, particularly the elderly and disabled.” Congressman Grimm will provide updates on procedures and storm coverage on his facebook page www.facebook.com/repmichaelgrimm and website www.grimm.house.gov, and has provided the following list of resources and tips. Should the storm’s path continue towards New York City, residents are encouraged to stay tuned into local TV and radio broadcasts for information on the storm and evacuation procedures. Rep. Grimm remained active during the course of Hurricane Irene and in the aftermath - playing an integral role in working with FEMA and visiting damaged areas in order to secure the disaster declaration for Richmond and Kings Counties needed for residents and businesses to receive storm recovery aid. In the event of another storm, his staff will be available to assist. ### Emergency Hurricane Information and Preparedness Guidance Emergency Resources: Register for emergency notifications by calling 311 or visiting www.NYC.gov/notifynyc NYC Office of Emergency Management: www.NYC.gov/oem NY State Emergency Management Office: www.semo.state.ny.us Federal Emergency Management Agency: www.fema.gov & www.floodsmart.com Department of Homeland Security: www.ready.gov American Red Cross in Greater New York: www.nyredcross.org Rep. Michael Grimm’s District Offices: Staten Island: 718-351-1062 Brooklyn: 718-630-5277 Tracking the Storm: www.hurricane.govwww.noaa.govwww.weather.gov FEMA’s Tips for Storm Preparation: Prepare an emergency kit: www.ready.gov/hurricanes : Ready.gov is FEMA’s site for tips on creating your family emergency plan and building an emergency kit. Create an emergency plan: Know what to do if you have to evacuate. Make sure you know how to contact members of your family and have an emergency contact number for someone out of state that knows where you are in the event of an emergency. Be informed: Know evacuation routes and listen to local authorities when asked to evacuate. Whether you live in a coastal community or inland, speak with your insurance agent now about flood insurance and review your homeowner’s policy. Every state is at risk for flooding and homeowners insurance does not cover flood damage. To learn more about your risk and flood insurance, visit www.floodsmart.gov.
10.15.2012	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement in reaction to the MTA’s new rate hike proposals which include raising tolls on the Verrazano Bridge from $13 to $15. “The MTA’s rate hike proposals once again show the authority’s callous disregard for the commuters in my district. On Staten Island, we’re getting hit from both sides - from the outrageous toll hikes on the Port Authority bridges to the skyrocketing toll on the Verrazano. In Brooklyn, we’re getting tolled into submission. My district contains the two highest bridge tolls in the nation, and we will not take it anymore! “Tolls and taxes should not be the go-to solution for every debt-stricken government authority. Just as every working family or business must learn to live within a budget, so should the MTA. Whether it’s the MTA or the PA, our message to them is the same: ‘We are not your personal ATM machine!’ There has to be a better way. “I have been leading the charge against these toll hikes, and will stop at nothing, including an act of Congress, to stop them. Last month, I introduced the Stop the Excessive Toll Hikes Act, which would block federal funding to any transit entity that has raised bridge and tunnel tolls by more than 10% during the last 5 years. Five years ago, tolls on the Verrazano Bridge were $10, so a 10% increase over 5 years would equal a $1 increase. This would mean that MTA could only receive their FY13 funds if they reduce the Verrazano Bridge toll to $11. From 2013-2018, they could only increase tolls by $1.10 to $12.10. I urge the MTA to find a viable solution to their debt that doesn’t balance its budget on the backs of the hard-working people in my district. Until then, I will continue to fight these hikes with every breath in my body and do all I can to move my legislation forward and into law.” ###
10.03.2012	BROOKLYN, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-Brooklyn/S.I.) and State Senator Marty Golden (R,C,I - Brooklyn) sent a letter to Community Board 10 Chairwoman Joanne Seminara in support of naming the northeast corner of 5th Avenue and 85th Street “Firefighter Michael G. Behette 9/11 Memorial Way.” Michael Behette was a Dyker Heights resident and firefighter who died last month from a 9/11-related cancer. His family has requested the street naming in his honor, and Rep. Grimm and Senator Golden are lending their full support. “Michael Behette was a true American hero who bravely rushed into a dust cloud of danger when others ran away,” said Rep. Grimm. “His selfless love for our city, for others, and for his profession as NYC fire fighter ultimately cost him his life, and that should never be forgotten. It is with great privilege that I join Senator Golden in support of naming this memorial after our hometown hero, Michael Behette, so that we will never forget his inspiring story or the sacrifices he made on our behalf,” said Rep. Grimm. "Firefighter Michael Behette was an example to us all. His dedication to the recovery efforts is a reminder of the service and sacrifice of our bravest to help move our city forward after we were attacked. Michael gave everything for his city, state, and nation, and today I join with Congressman Grimm in calling for our city to remember and honor his ultimate sacrifice by this memorial on 85th Street. My thoughts and prayers continue to be with his family, and I call on all to remember that while all gave some in those days and months, some, like Michael, gave all," said Senator Golden. Michael Behette was assigned to Ladder 172 in Bensonhurst. When the towers were hit, Behette was on vacation in Florida. Unable to get a flight home, he drove straight to Ground Zero where he worked for the next 31 days in rescue and recovery operations. He stayed on site for six more months. He was diagnosed in 2011 and passed on September 17th, 2012 from lung cancer, which is believed to have been caused from exposure to the toxins at the WTC site. Rep. Grimm and his staff have met with members of the Behette family who brought the matter to their attention, as well as helped the family obtain the application for the street naming. Rep. Grimm and Senator Golden have written the attached letter of support to be submitted today with the family’s application. ### Please find a copy of the letter below and attached: October 3, 2012 Dear Chairwoman Seminara, We are writing in support of the proposed name for public area, “Firefighter Michael G. Behette 9/11 Memorial Way,” for the northeast corner of 5th Avenue and 85th Street, submitted by Madeleine Behette. Michael Behette was a selfless family and community member, a faithful public servant, and an American hero. Under the proposal, Michael Behette’s name will continue to serve this community as a tribute to all those who have sacrificed their lives in service to our City and Nation, and as a reminder of our common values. We understand that the guidelines for naming public areas specify that the honoree must be deceased for not less than two years at the time of application submission. However, because Mr. Behette died as a result of such heroic acts and exceptional circumstances, we are asking the Board to waive this requirement. We believe Mr. Behette’s legacy of courage, humility, and service deserves to be honored, and that we must pursue every opportunity for such stories to be acknowledged, lest we or our children ever forget. We wish to express our strong interest in a favorable determination for Ms. Behette as she seeks recognition for her son. Thank you for your time and attention in this matter; your consideration is greatly appreciated. We look forward to the Board’s decision. Sincerely, Michael G. Grimm Member of Congress Marty Golden State Senator
10.01.2012	STATEN ISLAND, NY - Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) visited Staten Island resident, Joseph LaGuardia at the New Dorp Beach Friendship Club in celebration of his 102nd birthday, which is tomorrow. Rep. Grimm visited in the New Dorp club in August, and promised to return for Mr. LaGuardia’s birthday. “Joe LaGuardi may be turning 102, but he’s got the spirit of a 42 year old!” said Grimm. “We can all learn a lot from him on how to live each day with a positive outlook on life and a smile on our face. Joe is truly an inspiration to us all, and it certainly brightened my day to join in the celebration of him turning 102 years young!” Mr. LaGuardia turns 102 tomorrow, October 2nd, and tells the congressman he will go on a helicopter ride on Wednesday. When Rep. Grimm asked what his secret is, Mr. LaGuardia said to treat everyday like a walk in the park.
09.28.2012	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) and Richmond County District Attorney Dan Donovan are encouraging New Yorkers to participate in National Prescription Drug Take-Back Day, in which residents can turn in unwanted and expired prescription medication. The event will take place tomorrow, September 29, 2012, from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. The national day is sponsored by the U.S. Department of Justice’s Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) in order to combat prescription drug abuse. “Prescription drug abuse is plaguing our community, particularly our youth. The first step to fighting this epidemic begins with us and we must be proactive. I encourage everyone to participate in tomorrow’s National Take-Back Day, in order to get unwanted and expired prescription medications out of reach and safely disposed of, so that they are no longer accessible for abuse. I thank District Attorney Dan Donovan for his ongoing commitment to fighting this epidemic on Staten Island and appreciate his strong support for my legislation, the Fraudulent Prescription Prevention Act.” “Leaving unused prescription medication sitting in your cabinet is like leaving a loaded gun in the middle of your living room - it has the same potential for disaster. Almost every day, the news recounts tragic stories of fatal prescription pill addictions which so often begin with drugs accessible at home,” D.A. Donovan said. “You can safeguard your family, safeguard your community, and help us in our ongoing battle against this deadly addiction by participating in National Prescription Drug Take-Back Day.” This Congress, Rep. Michael Grimm introduced the Fraudulent Prescription Prevention Act (H.R. 1266), which will help combat the prescription drug abuse epidemic throughout Staten Island, Brooklyn and the nation. Rep. Grimm’s bill would establish a secure web portal for physicians and pharmacists across the country to properly record prescriptions electronically. This database would update in real-time to prevent “pharmacy shopping” and abuse by stolen prescription pads – a major source for drug abuse. The bill is also supported by Richmond and Kings County District Attorneys Daniel Donovan and Charles Hynes. To find a drop off location near you, please call 1-800-882-9539 or visit the DEA’s National Take Back website: http://www.deadiversion.usdoj.gov/drug_disposal/takeback/. ###
09.27.2012	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-S.I./Brooklyn) joined NYC Mayor Michael Bloomberg in announcing his support for the construction of the world’s largest observation wheel within his district on the North Shore of Staten Island. The observation wheel, tentatively called the “New York Wheel,” will be constructed along with new retail spaces and hotel sites adjacent to it. The project is expected to bring thousands of construction and permanent jobs to Staten Island, increase tourism given its location near the Staten Island Ferry Terminal, as well as provide a boost to the local economy. “An observation wheel on Staten Island’s North Shore will give New Yorkers and tourists alike the opportunity to share the spectacular view of Manhattan’s skyline that Staten Islanders have enjoyed for decades,” said Rep. Grimm. “I welcome this announcement that will bring thousands of well-paying construction and permanent jobs, business investment, and tourism to the under-developed St. George waterfront. This is the exact kind of private investment we need to spark our local economy, create jobs, and make Staten Island a destination site for all to enjoy this new iconic structure as well as the many unique cultural experiences our borough has to offer.” The New York Wheel is part of a greater plan for the development of Staten Island’s underdeveloped St. George waterfront area. BFC Partners plans to construct a 300,000 square foot retail complex featuring 50-75 designer outlets and a 120,000 square foot hotel on the site to the south of the ballpark. Together the projects will generate a $480 million private investment, and create over 1,200 construction jobs and 1,100 permanent jobs. The Wheel will be built in St. George just north of the Richmond County Bank Ballpark, which is home to the Staten Island Yankees. The “New York Wheel” will be the world’s tallest, reaching the height of 625 feet - 85 feet higher than the Singapore Flyer, currently the world’s tallest. It will be comprised of thirty-six capsules, each able to carry up to 40 passengers with a max capacity of 1,440 people per ride. It anticipates welcoming as many as 30,000 riders per day during peak season and an estimated 4.5 million visitors per year. The New York Wheel will be open 7 days a week, 365 days per year (except on severe weather days and required maintenance days) from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. in the fall, winter and spring. Rides will last 38 minutes. In the summer, and on special occasions, the Wheel will stay open for longer hours. It is expended to begin construction in early 2014, with the goal of hosting a grand opening on December 31, 2015. The Wheel’s designer and manufacturer will be Starneth, the engineering company that built the London Eye. The Wheel will strive for Platinum LEED certification and it is expected to be powered by clean energy. ###
09.21.2012	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement in reaction to the Obama administration’s failure to denounce Andres Serrano’s religiously offensive and controversial art work “Piss Christ,” which will be on display in NYC starting Thursday: “The Obama administration’s hypocrisy and utter lack of respect for the religious beliefs of Americans has reached an all-time high. Our own government has just launched on-air ads in Pakistan apologizing for the anti-Islam video that has sparked unrest throughout the region. Earlier, they asked YouTube to take down the trailer to the controversial film, a request which was denied. “Now as the controversial ‘Piss Christ’ art exhibit makes its return to NYC, the administration remains silent. Perhaps they’ve forgotten the controversy that surrounded this deplorable piece depicting a crucifix submerged in the artist’s urine. It outraged Christians in America and throughout the world as the touring exhibit was met with protests and acts of vandalism. “As a Catholic, I find ‘Piss Christ’ to be vulgar and offensive, just as many in the Islamic world found ‘Innocence of Muslims’ to be highly offensive. Like most Americans, I condemn both yet remain tolerant as the First Amendment demands. Unfortunately, this administration has yet to echo these views in regards to the religiously offensive ‘art’ here at home. “While I believe that we must walk a fine line in regards to free speech, this administration is clearly taking an a la carte approach. In picking winners and losers, it has turned its back on the American people to apologize to the very nations that allowed our embassies to be stormed and our flags to be burned. I call on President Obama to stand up for America’s values and beliefs, and denounce the ‘Piss Christ’ that has offended Christians at home and abroad. It’s time this president stops apologizing for America and starts leading it.”
09.19.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) sent a letter today to the Metropolitan Transit Authority (MTA) in strong opposition to a proposal to raise the toll on the Verrazano Bridge from $13 to $15. The toll hike is one revenue-raising proposal being considered by the MTA as part of a larger plan to raise fares on commuters. “Why is the answer always to raise tolls? Every family and business in NYC has had to learn to live within a budget, so why can’t the MTA? We are sick and tired of NYC’s debt-stricken agencies – whether it being the PA or the MTA – running immediately to the taxpayers for a bailout. There has to be another solution that doesn’t involve shifting the burden to the taxpayer. I suggest the MTA a serious look at its finances, cut out the waste, and find a creative way to maintain the current level of services without raising fares or the tolls on the Verrazano Bridge,” said Rep. Grimm. ### The letter is attached and the text pasted below: September 19, 2012 The Honorable Joseph J. Lhota Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Metropolitan Transportation Authority 347 Madison Avenue New York, NY 10017-3739 Chairman Lhota, It is with great concern that I read about a new round of toll hikes that the MTA may inflict on the public. The mere suggestion of raising the Verrazano Bridge's already sky-high toll is a slap in the face of commuters who already pay too much for too little. Many of my constituents have concluded with good reason that the authorities in our state have no solutions to deficits that doesn’t involve raising tolls. We must work to change that, and we must show that toll increases are a last resort that will never be considered without the benefit of a thorough, publicly-available analysis of the impact a toll increase would have on our communities. The people of my district and across New York City deserve to know how our businesses and families will be affected. I can assure you that any study of this matter would illuminate something most people already know: that our communities have been pushed to the breaking point by skyrocketing tolls. No one wants or can endure another round of toll hikes on the heels of those enacted by the Port Authority and the MTA in the last several years. No government agency or authority should be able to ride rough shod over the will of the people. I urge you to immediately rule out the possibility of raising the Verrazano toll, and to conduct a thorough economic impact study on the effect of any other toll increases before such a possibility is even considered by the MTA board. The hardworking families of Staten Island and Brooklyn have had to learn to do more with less through the last few years of the recession. The MTA needs to learn to do the same! Sincerely, Michael G. Grimm
09.14.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The National Federation of Independent Business, the nation’s leading small business association, today named U.S. Rep. Michael Grimm (NY-13) a Guardian of Small Business for his outstanding voting record on behalf of America’s small-business owners in the 112th Congress. NFIB President and CEO Dan Danner praised Rep. Grimm for “standing for small business.” In presenting the group’s coveted Guardian of Small Business Award, Danner said, “Small-business owners pay close attention to how their lawmakers vote on the issues affecting their businesses and employees and stand by those who stand for them.” “The record shows that Rep. Grimm is a true champion of small business, having stood strong on the key small-business votes in the 112th Congress,” said Danner. “This award reflects our members’ appreciation for supporting the NFIB pro-growth agenda for small business.” In all, NFIB will present Guardian awards to 245 Representatives who voted favorably on key small business issues at least 70 percent of the time during the 112th Congress. ### NFIB is the nation’s leading small business association, with offices in Washington, D.C., and all 50 state capitals. Founded in 1943 as a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization, NFIB gives small and independent business owners a voice in shaping the public policy issues that affect their business. NFIB’s powerful network of grassroots activists sends their views directly to state and federal lawmakers through our unique member-only ballot, thus playing a critical role in supporting America’s free enterprise system. NFIB’s mission is to promote and protect the right of our members to own, operate and grow their businesses. More information is available online at www.NFIB.com/newsroom.
09.13.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement: “The violence in Libya, Egypt, and now Yemen is a clear indicator that we cannot put our full faith in a host nation’s security forces, and that we must take more proactive measures to protect the safety of U.S. officials working abroad. It is unfathomable that as we approached the anniversary of 9/11, that security at our embassies and consulates was not heavily increased to an adequate level. “Furthermore, if there was in fact solid intel regarding an attack on the consulate in Benghazi, why was it ignored? Why weren’t the Marines guarding the embassy in Tripoli sent to guard the consulate in Benghazi in an effort to heighten security? Or why weren’t additional forces sent to increase our security presence? It is this type of poor decision-making that has cost us American lives, and I find that reprehensible. “As our FBI and U.S. Marine Corps send teams to Libya to protect American citizens and gather intel, I am fully confident that they have the specialized training and tools to handle the situation; however, it is unfortunate that their role is now reactionary. A heightened security presence should have never been an afterthought. “At the end of the day, it is the full responsibility of the United States to protect its citizens. This important task cannot be delegated to the Libyan government or to the Cairo police who stood idly by as protesters climbed our embassy walls and desecrated the American flag. As a country, we have a responsibility to protect our citizens and any failure to do so is completely unacceptable as it continues to put American lives at risk.” Rep. Grimm is a Marine combat veteran of the first Gulf War, and has served over a decade in the FBI, working undercover as a Special Agent. ###
09.12.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – On Thursday September 6th, Reps. Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) and Jon Runyan (R-NJ) sent a letter to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Regional Administrator for New York and New Jersey, Judith Enck. The letter requested that the administrator work to amend the “Floatables Action Plan” for New York and New Jersey to ensure that medical waste will no longer wash up on New York and New Jersey’s beaches. On Saturday June 19th, the Long Beach Island Health Department closed the beaches from Barnegat Light to Ship Bottom due to syringes washing up on the shores. The waste was described as syringes from diabetics that were washed into the ocean because of overflowed storm drains. The EPA investigated and found no evidence of medical waste dumping but did nothing to fix the “Floatables Action Plan” that allowed this incident to happen. In the late 1980’s floating medical debris discharged from combined sewers in North Jersey and New York washed ashore in New Jersey and New York prompting beach closures and billions in revenue losses. In response the EPA and its partners created a “Floatables Action Plan” designed to capture debris slicks in the harbor before they can reach area beaches. “When families visit the beach to escape the heat, the last thing they should have to worry about is stepping on a hypodermic needle,” said Congressman Grimm. “Medical waste washing up on our shores is not only hazardous to our safety, but a threat to the environment and the surrounding businesses that lose revenue when the beach is shut down. This problem is not new to the shorelines of New York, but it’s time that it comes to an end. I am urging the EPA to take action now, so that next summer’s beach goers can have a safe and worry-free visit.” “I am honored to join my friend and colleague from New York Michael Grimm in requesting action from our regional EPA administrator,” said Congressman Runyan. “The local businesses in shore towns throughout New Jersey, including those on Long Beach Island, are reliant upon tourism to keep their economies running. If medical waste continues to wash up and close the beaches, many of these businesses will face an even tougher economic future. I urge Administrator Enck to work with her regional partners to ensure that what happened this summer never happens again.” Attached is the letter that was sent to Judith Enck, the Environmental Protection Agency Regional Administrator for New York and New Jersey. ###
09.11.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement: “On the 11th anniversary of the September 11th attacks, we remember the events of that fateful day. We think of those we lost, remain eternally grateful for the efforts of our heroic first responders, and pray for the families whose loved ones never returned. In the aftermath of 9/11, we were a shaken city, but we came together as a community and as a nation. Together we mourned; we helped each other; and we moved forward, stronger and more resilient than ever before. “Today, I join you in keeping in my thoughts and prayers the 3,000 victims and their families, our brave first responders – many of whom have since fallen ill, and our dedicated troops for their ongoing efforts in the war on terror throughout the globe, particularly in Afghanistan and Iraq. “I am proud to be an American in the greatest country on earth. We have proven time and time again that we are a strong and resilient nation, and that we will always prevail when faced with evil. God Bless the USA.”
09.10.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) applauded the decision announced by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) late this afternoon to add 50 new cancers to the list of diseases covered by the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act. The final rule will be published September 12th and go into effect 30 days later. “Our brave first responders put their lives on the line in the aftermath of 9/11, working around the clock in the dust cloud of toxins in rescue and clean-up operations,” said Grimm. “We had no way of knowing what health ailments would result in the years to follow, but as more scientific evidence has come forth in the last decade, it is clear that the initial level of coverage was not enough to sufficiently care for those affected. I applaud the decision to add 50 new cancers to the list of coverage. This long overdue decision will allow us to uphold our commitment to the first responders who became ill after the attacks, and ensure that they receive the medical care and treatment they deserve.” On September 7, 2011, Rep. Grimm joined several of his New York colleagues in sending a letter to Dr. John Howard, M.D., Director of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) asking that the list of covered diseases be expanded to include more cancers in order to reflect the findings of a study conducted by the NYC Fire Department. Rep. Grimm served as a first responder in the recovery and clean-up in the aftermath of 9/11. He represents the borough of Staten Island, which lost 78 firefighters (the highest loss of any borough) and almost 300 residents. Read the full rule: https://s3.amazonaws.com/public-inspection.federalregister.gov/2012-22304.pdf ###
09.10.2012	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) requested that a new ferry vessel at the Staten Island Ferry be named after former NYC Mayor Rudy Giuliani in a letter to the NYC Department of Transportation’s Ferry Division. The city has issued a Request for Proposals for the acquisition of three new ferry vessels, and following the longstanding tradition of naming ferries after distinguished leaders with a connection to Staten Island, Rep. Grimm is requesting that one be named after Mayor Rudy Giuliani. “For the tens of thousands of residents and tourists that ride the ferry each day between Staten Island and lower Manhattan, the visible absence of the twin towers from NYC skyline is still a haunting sight,” said Rep. Grimm. “We will never forget the tragedy and loss of 9/11 or the way Mayor Rudy Giuliani united us as a community in the aftermath, but his contributions to our city are far greater than that fateful day.” “From squeegee men to strip clubs, Mayor Giuliani got rid of the bad and brought in the good,” added Grimm. “At a time when most thought NYC was lost forever as a leading tourist destination, he cleaned it up, made it safe, and put it on the economically solvent path that revitalized it into the thriving city we know today. Mayor Rudy Giuliani’s contributions are significant and praiseworthy, which is why I am calling on the NYC DOT to name one of its new ferry vessels after ‘America’s Mayor’ - permanently honoring his legacy and commitment to the greatest city on earth.” Rep. Grimm served as a first responder in the recovery and clean-up in the aftermath of 9/11. He represents the borough of Staten Island, which lost 78 firefighters (the highest loss of any borough) and almost 300 residents. Grimm has dedicated his life to public service as a combat veteran of the Marine Corps serving in the first Gulf War, in the FBI working deep undercover on Wall Street, and now as a U.S. Congressman. ### The letter is attached and pasted below: September 10, 2012 Captain James DeSimone Chief Operating Officer Division of the Staten Island Ferry NYC Department of Transportation 1 Bay Street Staten Island, NY 10301 Captain DeSimone, I am writing to tell you how pleased I am that the New York City Department of Transportation has issued a Request for Proposals for the acquisition of three new vessels for the Staten Island Ferry service. Our ferries are the mainstay of the commute of many of my constituents and are engraved in the consciousness of our borough as our longest enduring link to the rest of the City. That is why I fought tooth and nail to make sure that our ferry infrastructure received support from the federal government this year. There is longstanding tradition of naming our ferry boats after individuals that have had a strong relationship with Staten Island, including elected officials like the late State Senator John Marchi and former Congressman and Borough President Guy V. Molinari. While I understand that it will be several years before these new additions are purchased to join the fleet in service, I think it is now appropriate for me to recommend that one of them be named for “America’s Mayor,” Rudy Giuliani. Mayor Giuliani’s tenure in office raised the quality-of-life in Staten Island and the City at-large. Few have gone as far as him to make sure that the “Forgotten Borough” was remembered in City Hall. Rudy formed a special relationship with the people of Staten Island based on shared values and a dogged commitment to making our New York livable again. Rudy’s leadership on 9/11 brought calm and resolve to a shaken city. His strength and courage during that dark day shepherded us through our worst crisis. This alone would be sufficient for this man to receive this honor. I ask again that you name one of our new ferries after Rudy Giuliani. Sincerely, Michael G. Grimm Member of Congress MG/dc
09.07.2012	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on today’s State Supreme Court ruling that the Port Authority must release its economic impact study on the effect of commercial tolls on the New York Container Terminal (NYCT): “Today, the court ruled on behalf of the tollpayers and taxpayers of Staten Island – putting an end to the PA’s days of stall tactics and delays. I applaud Assemblywoman Nicole Malliotakis for her leadership on this effort and I’m proud to call her a colleague. We both have repeatedly called for the release of the study’s results, yet the PA refused time and time again. It is unfortunate that our request had to reach the level of a court decision, but the people of Staten Island deserve to see the results. This study was partially paid for with taxpayer money, which means it belongs to us. “We already know that the commercial toll hikes will cost us hundreds of local jobs and drive business out of Staten Island, but we have a right to know the full scope of the impact. I am calling on the PA to move swiftly to meet the Tuesday deadline and ultimately reach a prompt decision on commercial toll relief. The people of Staten Island have had it with the PA’s ongoing song and dance over tolls! If we have to wait any longer on an agreement, there may not be any jobs left to save.” ###
09.07.2012	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on today’s jobs report: “Today’s jobs report is simply another play on numbers. The reality is that many people have simply given up. Roughly 368,000 Americans stopped looking for work in August making them unaccounted for in the report, and only 96,000 jobs were created. The labor force participation rate has hit 63.5% - a low point we haven’t seen since 1981, and last quarter’s GDP growth slowed to a tepid 1.7% - not nearly high enough to indicate a recovery. “This report is another reminder of President Obama’s broken promises to get our economy back on track. Unemployment has remained above 8% for 43 consecutive months, the president failed to keep his promise to cut the deficit in half, gas prices are through the roof, and our national debt just topped $16 trillion. These numbers do not paint a picture of a recovering economy, and in fact, they are rather dismal. When it comes to job creation, America deserves better, and we can do better! “As our economy approaches the precipice of a fiscal cliff, there isn’t a more crucial time than now for tough decisions and strong leadership. In the House, I have voted to stop the tax hikes on the middle class and small businesses; voted to protect our troops by replacing the automatic sequester cuts with responsible, targeted cuts; and supported a budget that would reduce spending and preserve Medicare along with other critical programs. “America is starving for leadership to lift us out of our economic slump – something we have yet to see from this president. We cannot afford to wait any longer, which is why I urge President Obama and Senate Democrats to put politics aside and put the American people first, by working together on a solution that tackles our debt and creates an environment for economic recovery and job creation.” ###
09.04.2012	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the national debt reaching $16 trillion: “Today our national debt reached an unprecedented level. In just over three and a half years, President Obama’s borrow-and-spend policies have increased our national debt by over 50 percent – raising it from $10.6 trillion to $16 trillion. That’s more money than the first 41 presidents combined! “If President Obama believes that Americans are better off than we were four years ago, he clearly hasn’t read the facts. Our national debt has just topped $16 trillion; gas prices have more than doubled; we have seen four straight years of trillion dollar deficits; and unemployment has remained above 8% for 42 consecutive months with millions of Americans still out of work. “It is unbelievable that after spending so much time touring the country on the campaign trail, President Obama still cannot see that America is worse off than when he took office. The reality is that this president has failed to lead, failed to keep his promise to cut spending, and failed to change the course of our nation; and it is the hard-working American people who are paying the price. “We are approaching a fiscal cliff, and we need prompt action and decisive leadership before we push ourselves over the edge. I remain committed to putting forth real solutions that put our nation back on the right track to get our debt under control, stop the looming tax hike on the middle class, and put Americans back to work. Let’s make no mistake about it, this is an American challenge, not a partisan issue, which we must tackle together as a unified nation and thus it’s time for the entire Congress to put politics aside and work together to secure a prosperous future for the next generation.” ###
09.04.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) applauded the U.S. Department of Transportation’s announcement to award a $1 million grant for the Staten Island Ferry for maintenance and repairs. This grant will use the funding to maintain the Staten Island Ferry System (SIFS) assets which include: the eight ferry vessels, St. George Ferry and Whitehall terminals. The grant also will be used for maintenance of the ferry infrastructure both structural and sub-structural to keep them in a state of good repair. “When New York City puts out its budget, Staten Island always seems to get the short end of the stick - especially when it comes to public transportation,” said Rep. Grimm. “This grant will help offset the costs incurred by the city and ensure that Staten Island’s ferry system gets the maintenance funding it needs to keep its vessels and equipment running smoothly and safely. While this is welcomed news for our local ferry commuters, the transportation battle is far from over. Lowering the commercial toll hikes that continue to threaten local jobs and plague Staten Island’s economy is another fight we need to win while increasing transportation options for all Staten Islanders.” On July 30, 2012, Rep. Grimm announced an additional grant of $2.4 million grant for the Staten Island ferry maintenance facility pier utilities upgrade, which will help upgrade the electric facility allowing the newer class of ferries to plug into shore power, decreasing the wear-and-tear on generators and reducing emissions at times when the ferries are out of service – at night or at other times – but cannot be turned off. View the grant announcement here: http://grants.ost.dot.gov/public/ViewMessage.cfm?MsgID=lo2wotxc6n
08.10.2012	BROOKLYN, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-Brooklyn/S.I.) sent the following letter to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers raising concerns over the waste transfer station proposed at the foot of Bay 41st Street in Brooklyn. The proposal has come under scrutiny over dangers surrounding unexploded ammunition that fell to the bottom of the harbor from the USS Bennington in 1954. Rep. Grimm is requesting more information pertaining to any possible dangers surrounding the dredging. “Safety should always remain a top priority when moving forward with any project, and the presence of unexploded munitions certainly raises strong concerns among members of the southwest Brooklyn community. Before any action begins on the proposed waste transfer station, I am seeking assurance from the Army Corps of Engineers that any dredging will not compromise the safety of the residents, their property, or the bay. No project is worth jeopardizing public safety, and I look forward to working with the Corps to receive its full assurance that the dredging will be 100% safe,” said Rep. Grimm. ### Text of the letter is below: August 9, 2012 Colonel John R. Boulé U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Jacob K. Javits Federal Building 26 Federal Plaza, Room 2109 New York, NY 10278-0090 Dear Colonel Boulé: I am writing in regard to the City of New York’s proposed waste transfer station at the foot of Bay 41st Street in Brooklyn, NY, and the dredging of Gravesend Bay required by the proposal. As you are well aware, opposition to this plan is largely based on the potential danger caused by disturbing the unexploded ammunition which fell to the bottom of the harbor from the USS Bennington in 1954. A spokesman for the Army Corps of Engineers has assured that “the area has been dredged several times over the years, and it’s unlikely that dredging there again would present any hazards.” However, The Army Corps of Engineers and the City of New York owe the residents of southwest Brooklyn more thorough substantiation before moving forward. With hundreds of explosive shells of anti-aircraft ammunition unaccounted for, it would be well worth the extra effort to achieve more certainty in the claim that no hazards would be presented by this project. In the interest of my constituency, I would like to formally request the release of any information pertaining to previous dredging of Gravesend Bay. It is imperative that public safety concerns of this degree be exhaustively addressed before any new dredging begins. The taxpayers deserves a comprehensive explanation of how the Army Corps of Engineers can be so certain that future dredging will cause no harm to the residents, their property, or the Bay itself. I would appreciate your cooperation in providing this information, so the affected population may be fully assured that any new dredging will indeed pose no danger. Thank you for your attention and understanding. I look forward to moving forward in this matter together. Sincerely, Michael G. Grimm Member of Congress
08.01.2012	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Representatives Michael Grimm (R-SI/Brooklyn) and Gregory Meeks (D-Queens) helped safeguard the current toll discounts for New York residents with this evening’s House passage of their bill, the Residential and Commuter Toll Fairness Act (H.R. 897). This bipartisan bill would allow state and municipal governments to offer discounted rates to residents for trips taken on roads, bridges, rail, bus, ferry, or other transportation systems. This legislation is in response to a 2009 case, Selevan v. New York Thruway Authority, in which the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit questioned the constitutionality of the discounts for residents of towns bordering the New York Thruway. “On Staten Island, we have fought tirelessly to reach an agreement on residential toll discounts, which is why this legislation is crucial to ensure that the new rates are never called into question again by the courts,” said Grimm. “I thank Chairman Mica – who visited Staten Island last year and saw firsthand the devastating impact of tolls on our community - for his support in moving this bill forward. Today’s passage of this bill is a small victory for the people of New York, particularly my constituents who commute over the Verrazano or the three PA bridges connecting us to New Jersey. However, the fight is not over until immediate toll relief is brought to the businesses and jobs that are suffering as the result of the PA’s outrageous toll hikes on commercial vehicles.” Transportation toll discount programs that are based on residential status do not discriminate against those individuals who do not receive these discounts, but instead address actual unequal and undue financial burdens placed on residents of certain jurisdictions that have no other way of accessing those areas other than through a means that requires them to pay a toll. The Residential and Commuter Toll Fairness Act provides clarification of the existing authority of local governments to issue or grant transportation toll, user fee or fare discount programs based on residential status. It also provides Congressional authorization for discount programs. The costs add up for residents paying tolls on a daily basis, especially for New Yorkers who pay the highest tolls in the country. This legislation would protect the current discount programs offered to residents traveling across the Verrazano-Narrows, Cross Bay, Goethals, and Bayonne Bridges and the Outerbridge Crossing. Residents across the country benefit from the financial relief provided by residential discount programs. It will allow the current policies to continue, as well as provide the opportunity for new residential discount programs to be created. For more information on current toll rates and discounts on MTA bridges, please visit: http://www.mta.info/bandt/traffic/btmain.html#cars. For information on PANYNJ tolls, please visit: http://www.panynj.gov/bridges-tunnels/tolls.html. Last month the PA announced a new $4.75 rate for Staten Island residential E-Z Pass holders who take more than two trips over the Goethals Bridge, Bayonne Bridge, and Outerbridge Crossing during a 30-day period. ###
07.30.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) applauded the U.S. Department of Transportation’s announcement to award a $2.4 million grant for the Staten Island ferry maintenance facility pier utilities upgrade with federal funding from the Ferry Boat Discretionary Program. This will help upgrade the electric facility allowing the newer class of ferries to plug into shore power, decreasing the wear-and-tear on generators and reducing emissions at times when the ferries are out of service – at night or at other times – but cannot be turned off. “On Staten Island everything is a fight, especially when it comes to improving public transportation,” said Rep. Grimm. “I have fought hard to ensure that Staten Island gets its fair share from the federal Ferry Boat Discretionary Program, and today we learned that we have not been forgotten. This funding is essential to the maintenance of the Staten Island Ferry and to improving the quality of the public transportation available to those who commute between Staten Island and Manhattan. Even though we had a victory we can be proud of, I will continue to fight for lower tolls and more transportation that Staten Island deserves.” In July 2011, Rep. Grimm joined colleagues in sending a letter to House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman John L. Mica (R-FL) urging him to maintain the federal ferry program as a critical part of the U.S. transportation system, at a time when ferry systems struggle to meet growing demand and replace aging vessels, terminals and other facilities. View the Grant Notification: http://grants.ost.dot.gov/public/ViewMessage.cfm?MsgID=3kyatb50up ###
07.25.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) voted for the “Audit the Fed” bill (H.R. 459), which allows for a full audit of the Federal Reserve. It passed the House with a bipartisan vote of 327 to 98. “The ‘Audit the Fed’ bill will allow us to bring more transparency to the Federal Reserve and gain a clearer understanding of how its decisions impact average American citizens,” said Rep. Grimm. “As the central bank of the United States, the Fed has great influence over our economy and markets by exercising its power to adjust long and short-term interest rates; and its monetary policies over the last several years have even been linked to high energy and food prices. I believe the American people have a right to know how the Fed’s actions affect their daily lives and that Congress must take its oversight role seriously. It is for these reasons that I strongly support the ‘Audit the Fed’ bill and was proud to join my colleagues in passing it through the House with bipartisan support.” H.R. 459 would allow GAO to conduct a full audit within 12 months of enactment, by removing four restrictions on GAO audits of the Federal Reserve which pertain to monetary policy. Currently the GAO cannot audit: 1) Transactions for or with foreign central banks, governments, and international organizations 2) Deliberations, decisions, or actions on monetary policy matters; 3) Transactions made under the direction of the Federal Open Market Committee; 4) Discussions or communications of the Fed related to 1-3. Congress has constitutional authority over the nation’s money, which it has delegated to the Fed, but Congress is prohibited under current law from looking into how the Fed manages that delegated authority. Since the 2008 financial crisis, the Fed has tripled its balance sheet to $3 trillion, equivalent to 20% of the economy, through an unprecedented series of bailouts and economic interventions. Rep. Grimm is a cosponsor of H.R. 459, which was authored by Rep. Ron Paul (R-TX). ###
07.24.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Reps. Michael Grimm (R-NY) and Bob Turner (R-NY) sent the following letter to the NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene Commissioner, Dr. Thomas Farley, expressing concerns with the proposed ban on sodas larger than 16 ounces. “This is another example of the government treating American citizens as though they’re too stupid to make decisions on their own,” said Rep. Grimm. “I find this proposal preposterous, not only because it chooses a nanny-state mentality over individual responsibility, but because it will have a devastating impact on New York’s food and beverage industry and hardly gets to the root of the obesity issue. We all know that obesity is a growing problem that must be addressed, but singling out soda is hardly a panacea. The majority of New Yorkers oppose this proposal, and I’m calling on the Board of Health to do the same.” “It’s time for us to take a stand -- We can decide what’s best for our families without government help,” Liz Berman, President of Continental Food and Beverage, and member of New Yorkers for Beverage Choices, said. “We know we’re playing against a stacked deck and we face an uphill climb, but we are here to make our voices heard. The question is, will the Board of Health listen to us?” The Board of Health held a public hearing today at 1pm. The text of the letter is below: July 24, 2012 Dr. Thomas Farley Commissioner New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene 125 Worth Street New York, NY 10013 Dear Commissioner Farley: While we support New York City’s efforts to address the obesity issue, we are concerned that singling out soda – or any food – as a unique contributor to obesity is misleading and actually does more harm than good. People suffering from overweight and obesity need to understand that there is no silver bullet or quick fix to achieving a healthy weight. Obesity is a complex issue, and as policy leaders, we must be careful not to send mixed messages about the solutions and remedies. The city is not going to address the obesity issue by attacking the soda industry alone because soda is not driving the obesity rates. In fact, sugar-sweetened beverages play a small and declining portion of the American diet – just 7 percent of total calories. With 93 percent of the average American’s calories coming from other foods and beverages, the city has failed to look at the bigger picture. Not only are we concerned about the health of individuals struggling with their weight, New York City’s proposal would also have a devastating impact on food and beverage industry jobs. This proposal targets an industry that is responsible for creating more jobs than any other during this very difficult economic time. In May 2012, the food and beverage industry alone drove 37 percent of economic growth in the United States. We simply cannot afford to risk American jobs, especially on a proposal that the Mayor himself has said may not work to achieve the desired goal. In addition, we live in a time when people of all political persuasions are losing confidence in government institutions to act in their best interest. Such distrust is harmful to a democratic society. When public policy solutions become fodder for late-night comedians, that trust is further eroded. A majority of New Yorkers believe that what they eat and drink should be their choice – not the government’s. A NY1/Marist poll (June 2012) found that 53 percent of New Yorkers oppose this proposal, and a Rasmussen Reports poll (June 2012) found that 65 percent of American adults oppose a law that would ban the sale of any cup or bottle of sweetened drink larger than 16 ounces. Just 24 percent favor a law like the one New York City has proposed as a way to fight obesity. Certainly the government has played an important role over the years of educating the public about healthy eating and lifestyle choices, and we believe that is a more effective way to change public opinion and behavior. We are a representative democracy, and our constituents have sent us a strong message: they do not want this. We agree that the government has a vested interest in having healthy citizens and we support a comprehensive plan for achieving that goal. However, we believe that the issue at hand is not whether the government is doing enough to address obesity, but whether we are doing all that we can as effectively as we can. We do not believe that this proposal is a means to that end. It is our hope that moving forward, you will consider our concerns and the concerns of your constituents. Sincerely, Rep. Michael Grimm Rep. Robert Turner
07.17.2012	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s speech yesterday in which he said, “If you’ve got a business — you didn’t build that. Somebody else made that happen.�?: “It is insulting and arguably one of the most outlandish things I have ever heard a President of the United States say. Every immigrant and entrepreneur who has ever built a business should be outraged and insulted, as clearly this is evidence that the President is out of touch with reality. His ideology couldn’t be further from the values shared by the hard-working Americans who are the true backbone of our country. “So many immigrants came to this country without a penny in their pockets and it was their hard work and entrepreneurial spirit that has created jobs and built a strong U.S. economy. Entrepreneurs who have started their own businesses are the bedrock of this nation – whether it’s a local family-run restaurant or a startup that becomes a multi-billion dollar company, each is crucial and successful in its own right. I have news for this President: Hard work does pay off, as the people of New York have demonstrated time and time again. “The President’s remarks also provide further evidence of his plan to divide our country: workers against bosses, the haves and the have-nots, the 1% vs. the 99%. This is the type of class warfare rhetoric that will, without a doubt, unravel the greatness and unity of our country. When workers are led to believe that they should hold bosses in contempt instead of working harder to someday rise through the ranks and become one, it is a sad day in America. “This President has already created an economy in which it’s more difficult to live the American Dream, but yesterday’s speech made it clear that he plans to kill that dream entirely.�? ###
07.12.2012	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement in response to today’s news that two shipping firms are leaving Staten Island’s NYCT: “Today’s news that two shipping firms are leaving the NYCT brings further urgency to the need for the Port Authority (PA) to release its toll study. For whatever reason these two firms are leaving, the bottom line is that businesses and jobs are leaving Staten Island, and the toll hike will - without a doubt - cause other companies to follow suit. “Staten Islanders are supposed to be jumping up and down over residential toll relief, but why should we celebrate the reversal of toll hikes that should have never happened in the first place? Staten Island was forgotten as usual and held hostage by the PA’s outrageous toll hikes. We should have never been put in a position to have to beg for mercy or express our gratitude for the PA partially undoing such a devastating blow to our quality of life. “As we go through the same song and dance over commercial toll relief, it is typical and reprehensible that the PA still has not released the raw data or results of its study. Time is of the essence, and we cannot afford any more of the PA’s stall tactics and delays. “Without a prompt agreement on commercial relief, we will continue to watch our local jobs and economy decline, and our small businesses shut down or relocate to New Jersey. I will not stand idly by and allow this to happen, but will continue the fight until toll relief is brought to everyone on Staten Island. The people of Staten Island have been used as the bailout for the PA’s debt and mismanagement for far too long with very little in return, and I remain committed to putting an end to it once and for all!” ###
07.11.2012	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) voted for H.R. 6079, the Repeal of Obamacare Act, a bill to fully repeal the health care law. This is the 31st time the congressman has voted to fully or partially repeal or defund Obamacare. Rep. Grimm is a cosponsor of the bill which passed the House today with a bipartisan vote of 244-185. “I have consistently opposed the health care law because of its economy-crushing taxes and steep price tag, which harm our businesses and do little to address the core issue facing our healthcare system – increasing costs,” said Rep. Grimm. “This law hurts our seniors with steep cuts to Medicare, does nothing to create jobs, and jeopardizes the care that many of New York’s families and individuals rely on. It is imperative that we repeal Obamacare and start fresh in order to work together on a bipartisan step-by-step solution with common-sense reforms that increase access to high-quality, affordable, and patient-centered care.” Click here for Rep. Grimm’s July 10, 2012 floor speech in support of repealing Obamacare. ### The Impact of Obamacare Raises Taxes: The health care law imposes 21 new taxes on individuals and small businesses, totaling $813 billion in new taxes. Twelve of these taxes will directly hurt middle class families making under $250,000 per year. Kills Jobs and Hurts Small Businesses: The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has found that the law will reduce the labor supply by 800,000 people due to new taxes and other incentives. A National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) study estimates that the multi-billion dollar tax on insurers will reduce private-sector employment in New York by 2,000 jobs by 2021 (1,600 in small business) and $1.9 billion in lost sales for small businesses. Finally, under the law, businesses with over 50 employees will potentially face devastating fees that could keep them from hiring new employees or reducing staff to fewer than 50. In fact, a recent Gallop poll found that half of small businesses are not hiring due to concerns with increased costs from Obamacare and government regulations. Hurts New York’s Seniors: In Rep. Grimm’s district, there are 107,000 people eligible for Medicare, and of that number, 38,000 (36%) chose a Medicare Advantage (MA) Plan. Obamacare cuts $500 billion from Medicare, with a large portion of those cuts coming from MA. As a result, an estimated 56% of New York’s MA beneficiaries will lose their coverage by 2017 and those remaining will see a $4,500 reduction in benefits. If You Like Your Coverage, You May NOT be Able to Keep it: President Obama promised Americans that if you like your health plan, you could keep it under his law; yet, this is not the case. The CBO has estimated that 20 million Americans may lose their current health insurance coverage under the law and other estimates place that figure closer to 88 million. Further, nearly 170 million Americans received their health insurance through their employer in 2010, making employer-sponsored insurance the largest single source of health insurance in the nation. Over half of those are women and nearly a quarter are children under 18. A recent survey of employers by the McKinsey Group showed that 30 percent of employers said they will definitely or probably stop offering health care coverage after 2014. Raises the Cost of Coverage: A study released by the Kaiser Family Foundation in March 2012 found that average premiums for families have risen over $2,200 since Obama became president. This is a clear violation of the president’s promise that his plan would decrease premiums by $2,500. In addition, CBO predicts that health insurance premiums for individuals buying health coverage on their own will increase by $2,100 in 2016 when compared to what the premiums would have been without the law. Cuts New York Hospital Funding: In total, New York hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, home health agencies, and hospices will be hit with a $16 billion reduction in Medicare and Medicaid payments over ten years. Roughly $3 billion of those cuts will be in the form of disproportionate share hospital payment reductions.
07.09.2012	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement: “Today’s announcement is further evidence of just how out-of-touch this president is with reality. President Obama recently stated that the private sector is doing fine. The fact is that it’s not doing fine, and a tax hike on America’s hard-working families and businesses couldn’t be farther from the solution. “Numbers don’t lie. Our country has just had the worst quarter for job growth in two years with millions of Americans still out of work, yet this president insists on raising taxes on those who create roughly 70% of all new jobs in America today. Continuing failed policies, like this tax hike, hurts our small businesses and families, and creates an unprecedented level of uncertainty that has stifled economic growth and quelled job creation. “As a nation, we are already plagued by overbearing taxes and burdensome regulations that continue to oppress our ability to recover. In New York, when you add in rising property taxes, the price of tolls and mass transit, water rates, and all the other direct and indirect taxes and fees imposed in NYC; those making $250,000 are a far cry from the wealthy billionaires that President Obama claims to be targeting. They are hard-working families with mortgage payments and tuition bills for their children’s education. “This entire debate is nothing more than a diversion by the president to confuse people on the issues, and it’s our families and small business owners who are going to pay the hefty price. The real issue at hand is that this country has a spending problem, not a tax problem. Enough is enough! It’s time for President Obama to face reality and recognize that his tax, borrow, and spend policies are destroying our economy and our country.�? ###
07.04.2012	STATEN ISLAND, NY - Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement: "Today we gather with our friends, families, and neighbors on this Independence Day to celebrate 236 years of our nation's freedom. Let us thank those who worked so hard to make our country the strong nation that it is today - from our founding fathers who signed the Declaration of Independence, to our brave men and women in uniform who have fought and continue to fight for our freedom, to you and me. We are all a part of what makes America a great nation, and I am honored to celebrate today with the people of Staten Island in the 102nd Travis Fourth of July Parade. On Staten Island, we are fortunate to be a part of our nation's early history. The Conference House in Tottenville served as the site for the only peace talks during the Revolutionary War. On September 11, 1776, when Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, and Edward Rutledge met with General Howe, they refused his offer for amnesty in exchange for withdrawing the Declaration of Independence. They would not back down on what they believed were the unalienable rights of men, and it is because of their belief in this country, that we continue to enjoy these freedoms today. I am proud to be an American and believe we truly live in the greatest nation on earth. As Americans, we must never take for granted our freedoms or the men and women who fought hard to maintain them. It is their sacrifices that have given us all the opportunity to pursue the American dream and make a better life for ourselves and future generations to come." ###
06.28.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the SCOTUS’s healthcare ruling on Obamacare, which upholds the individual mandate as a tax: “I am extremely disappointed in today’s Supreme Court decision, but I am far more disturbed by the fact that the President willfully misled the nation by saying the individual mandate was not a tax. Time and time again he sought to assure the American people that this bill would not raise taxes on the middle class, yet this is the very argument the President’s team used to uphold the law. “President Obama has pulled the wool over the eyes of the American people and broke a fundamental promise by imposing on us one of the largest middle class tax increases in the history of the country. He cannot have it both ways. At a time when millions of American are out of work, he and the Democrats who fought hard for this economy-crushing tax, must be held accountable. “In light of this decision, I’m more resolute than ever in my commitment to fully repeal this tax on our nation’s hard-working families and the small businesses that we need to grow and create jobs. The last thing our fragile economy needs is another devastating tax in the form of an unsustainable healthcare reform law which has already increased premiums, limited access, and reduced the quality of care for patients. “I remain committed to reforming our nation’s healthcare system the correct way, by taking a patient-based, step-by-step approach to lower costs, expand access, and preserve the highest quality of care possible.” ###
06.22.2012	BROOKLYN, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) is encouraging his staff and others to participate in take your dog to work day, which falls on June 22nd. First celebrated in 1999, TYDTW Day was created to celebrate the great companions dog make and to encourage their adoption from humane societies, animal shelters and breed rescue clubs. The annual event asks pet lovers to celebrate the humane-canine bond and promote pet adoption. “Every day is Take Your Dog to Work Day in my office!” said Rep. Grimm. “Congress is a fast-paced, high-stress environment. Having Sebastian around helps lighten the mood for me and my staff and makes those long hours in the office a little more bearable. Today, I’m encouraging my staff to bring their dogs to work today to celebrate the joy they bring us and to show our support for pet adoption.” Rep. Grimm drives back and forth from New York to Washington, DC which makes it easy for his Yorkshire Terrier Sebastian to be with him in his DC and NY offices. Tomorrow, in Rep. Grimm’s Brooklyn office, a member of his staff will be bringing her Yorkie, Valentina, to the office. In DC, a staffer will be brining in her new Cavalier King Charles, Monkey, who has become a regular playmate for Sebastian. For more information on TYDTW Day, visit: http://www.takeyourdog.com/
06.20.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee’s 23-17 vote to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress for failing to turnover necessary documents in the Operation Fast and Furious investigation and in President Obama’s offer of executive privilege: “It is a sad day for America when the President of the United States intervenes in an act of obstructing truth and justice. As a Congress, we have a responsibility to get to the bottom of Fast and Furious, and bring full transparency to the situation. We owe it to the American people to see this through, and most importantly we owe it to the family of fallen Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry. “It causes me grave concern that the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee has to hold our top law enforcement officer, Attorney General Eric Holder, in contempt for failing to provide information about our government’s role in allowing guns to fall into the hands of Mexican drug cartels leading to the demise of our own agent. “Unfortunately, this act of defiance by the Attorney General, coupled with the President’s assertion of executive privilege, is merely a continuation of a larger pattern by this administration to flout the U.S. Constitution and arrogantly discount the role of the Congress. “Regardless of party affiliation, all Americans should be concerned that the limitations our Constitution places on the President of the United States, the separation of powers, and the checks and balances that preserve our democracy are all at risk.” Rep. Michael G. Grimm served over a decade as a special agent in the FBI. ###
06.18.2012	BROOKLYN, NY – Last week, Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-S.I./Brooklyn) sent a request to NYC Department of Education’s Chancellor Dennis M. Walcott and P.S. 90’s Principal Greta Hawkins asking to meet with the kindergarten class this morning to congratulate the students, speak about his experience serving our nation, and give them all a copy of a book by Lee Greenwood, the artist who sings “God Bless the USA.” P.S. 90’s principal refused to respond to the congressman’s request, so the books will be delivered to the students and parents at today’s 3pm afterschool rally. “It is unfortunate that the principal of P.S. 90 fails to see the value in sharing a song or a story about American patriotism. As a Marine combat veteran, a former FBI agent, and member of Congress, I have dedicated my life to serving this country and defending our flag. These are experiences I had hoped to share with the students of P.S. 90,” said Rep. Grimm. “We should never ever apologize for being Americans, and we should certainly never ask our children to hide or silence their pride. It is reassuring to know that so many Americans, including Lee Greenwood, share my sentiments. ‘God Bless the USA’ is a testimony to the strength and resilience of our nation, and served as inspiration to all of us in times of conflict, particularly in the aftermath of 9/11. I thank Lee Greenwood and Tate Publishing for their generosity in donating these books to the students of P.S. 90’s kindergarten class. They are true patriots and I am proud to partner with them in this effort to right a terrible wrong,” Rep. Grimm added. “I congratulate Congressman Grimm for standing with the children of P.S. 90 on Coney Island,” said Lee Greenwood. “I have sang ‘God Bless the USA’ thousands of times, for children of all ages. Never have I been told by teachers, principals, parents or students that my lyrics were in any way inappropriate.” “We're honored to stand alongside Congressman Grimm and Mr. Greenwood in the effort to protect the rights of these children,” said Ryan Tate, President and CEO of Tate Publishing and Enterprises. “The song is a perfect representation of our culture and teaches kids that being an American is something to be very proud of.” The school received attention last week after the principal nixed a student performance of Greenwood’s patriotic song, “God Bless the USA,” seeking to replace it with Justin Bieber’s “Baby.” After hearing of Rep. Grimm’s strong opposition to that decision, artist Lee Greenwood and Tate Publishing contacted the congressman stating they would help the cause by donating 115 copies of the artist’s book “Does God Still Bless the USA?” with a link to download the song, “God Bless the USA” for all the kindergarten students and parents of P.S. 90. A Rep. Grimm representative will deliver the books to the students and parents at a 3pm rally outside the school. Today, the House of Representatives is in session and the congressman will be en route to Washington at the time of the rally. ###
06.11.2012	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) sent a letter to Governor Andrew Cuomo urging him to stand with him in demanding the release of a study on the impact of the toll hikes on the viability of Staten Island’s New York Container Terminal. He also expressed his shared views opposing the use of tolls to pay for the Port Authority’s debt and mismanagement. ### The letter is attached and the text is as follows: June 11, 2012 The Honorable Andrew Cuomo Governor of the State of New York New York State Capitol Building Albany, NY 12224 Dear Governor Cuomo, I read with great interest your recent comments that attributed the increase in Port Authority tolls to wasteful and over-budget spending at the World Trade Center. I fully agree with your statement that "the toll payer is not an endless, bottomless well for government to dip into to cure their incompetence." And it is extremely problematic that, as you note, toll revenue is being directed towards projects unrelated to transportation improvements. In fact, this diversion of funds was a chief consideration for me when I filed an amicus brief supporting the lawsuit filed against the Port Authority by the American Automobile Association (AAA). As you likely know, this lawsuit persuasively argues that the Port Authority’s diversion of toll-generated funds violates the “just and reasonable” standard established by federal code, which dictates that toll increases must be closely related to transportation infrastructure improvements. As Governor of New York, you play an influential role in wielding 50% of the decision making power behind increasing toll hikes on Port Authority bridges. Considering your recent statements I would strongly and respectfully urge you to exercise this power to provide toll relief to the residents and businesses of Staten Island who are being crushed by tolls hikes that, as you stated, are being directed towards projects unrelated to transportation improvements. In an effort to provide this much needed relief I would also ask that you join me in demanding that the Port Authority release the data and findings from their much delayed study on the impacts these toll hikes will have on the commercial viability of the Staten Island Container Terminal. While I understand the study may be subject to a confidentiality agreement, the raw data could be a critical tool for policy makers as we work to address this very serious issue. Further, I would ask that you require the Port Authority to release an authoritative list of any subsidies, benefits or tax relief provided to the ports and businesses of New Jersey to ensure that our state is not being placed at a competitive disadvantage. Let there be no doubt, these tolls pose a severe and deliberate threat to the future viability of Staten Island’s economy. As we move forward, your partnership is going to be crucial in fighting the crippling, unfair toll hikes which have left Staten Islanders paying more in tolls than the entire state of Texas. We must act now to address this problem. I respectfully request the opportunity to discuss this critical matter with you at your earliest convenience. Sincerely, Michael G. Grimm MEMBER OF CONGRESS
06.11.2012	BROOKLYN, NY – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-S.I/Brooklyn) issued the following statement in response to the decision by the principal of Brooklyn’s PS 90 to pull the song “Proud to be an American” from the kindergarten commencement ceremony on June 20th and replace it with Justin Bieber’s “Baby,” so as not to “offend other cultures”: “I am outraged that NYC’s Department of Education is standing by the decision of PS 90’s principal to pull the song ‘Proud to be an American’ from the upcoming kindergarten ceremony, for fear of offending other cultures. The fact that the principal nixed the performance of this patriotic, G-rated song while permitting an inane and age-inappropriate Justin Bieber song about teenage romance only underscores my concern about the skewed views being forced on these students. “I have just one question for this principal: ‘Who exactly are we offending?’ The only thing offensive about any of this is the anti-American message being engrained in our youth. We all should be proud to be American and we should never ever apologize for it! “‘Proud to be an American’ is a song that brought many of us together in the aftermath of 9/11 and during the war in Iraq and Afghanistan. It represents the strength and resilience of our great nation, the freedoms we hold dear, the sacrifices made by those to defend them, and the limitless opportunities provided to citizens and immigrants who have come to our country for generations in search of a better life for their children and grandchildren. It represents the American Dream and the potential we all have to succeed. No matter what our age or backgrounds, this is what America is all about, and it’s something for which we can all stand up and be proud. “When a Justin Bieber song is deemed an appropriate substitute for a song about patriotism and love of country, what message are we sending our youth? It’s time we stop letting our political correctness destroy our values and American traditions, and start embracing the exceptional people and cultures that make our country great. God Bless America.”
06.11.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – On Friday, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) joined Rep. Nydia Velazquez (D-NY) in introducing the Next Steps for Credit Availability Act (H.R. 5929). This bipartisan bill helps Business Development Companies (BDCs) increase their capital pool, which in turn gives them more money to invest in start-up companies and small to mid-sized businesses. The objective is achieved by safely increasing leverage ratios, modifying reporting practices that give the appearance of greater debt, and simplifying redundant government-imposed filing requirements, making them consistent with requirements for similar entities in the industry. “This bill helps turn a business idea into an achievable reality by providing start-ups and businesses with greater access to capital – allowing them to remain innovative, expand, and create American jobs. Traditional funding options are not always available to start-up firms, so by modernizing the BDC regulatory framework, we can provide financial fuel for young, rapidly growing companies. If the United States wants to be the home of the next Apple or Google, passing this bill is another important step in the right direction,” said Rep. Grimm. A BDC is a publicly traded firm that acts in many of the same ways a private equity firm does. Namely, it provides funding to small and mid-size firms, as well as start-ups, that do not have easy access to more traditional capital markets. The Velazquez-Grimm bill makes several modifications to increase the lending capacity of BDCs, and thus increases access to capital by firms and start-ups. First, the bill would amend the Investment Company Act of 1940 to permit BDCs to own investment adviser subsidiaries. Currently, the 1940 Act prohibits a BDC from making investments in a wholly owned subsidiary that is an investment adviser registered under the Advisers Act. Secondly, H.R. 5929 allows reasonable leverage for reasonable investments. Currently BDCs have a leverage cap of $2 of assets for every $1 of debt (200%), meaning that for every $1 they borrow to lend to small businesses, they must hold $2. H.R. 5929 would increase their leverage slightly, allowing them to make $2 in loans for every $3 in assets. When compared to other financial firms, including commercial banks, this new leverage limit would still be very low and conservative. H.R. 5929 also would allow preferred stock to be counted as equity rather than debt, freeing up more cap room for firm borrowing. This will increase their ability to raise funds and lend them to small and mid-size firms. Finally, the legislation would streamline SEC registration and reporting so that more start-ups and mid-sized American companies can benefit from BDCs. Currently BDCs have a more onerous process for offering new securities than do other Exchange Act Registrants. Instead of continuing the current policy of registering their securities via form N-2, which does not allow the firm to cite by reference information that is regularly disclosed in their quarterly and annual filings, H.R. 5929 would allow these firms to instead using a filing similar to form S-3, which does allow filing by reference. This will allow these firms to move quickly when opportunities arise to take a registration “from the shelf” and offer it to the capital markets - accessing windows of opportunity that they would otherwise miss. Making it easier for these firms to raise equity capital will increase their ability to fund other firms and help them fulfill their role in growing small and mid-sized business and creating U.S. jobs. ###
06.06.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night, Reps. Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) and Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), introduced the Startup Act 2.0 (H.R. 5893) in the House of Representatives, with Reps. Robert Dold (R-IL), Jared Polis (D-CO), Kevin Yoder (R-KS), Russ Carnahan (D-MO), and Devin Nunes (R-CA). The Startup Act 2.0 is a bill to create and keep jobs in America; increase America’s access to talent in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) by reforming high-skilled visa policies; and create opportunities for startup businesses with tax incentives and access to resources for innovation. “Startup 2.0 is about creating American jobs. Too often we educate the world’s best and brightest in STEM fields, only to send them back to countries like India and China to open businesses and compete against us. This bill will keep top talent here in the U.S. to build businesses that hire Americans, and drive U.S. innovation and competitiveness. I thank Senator Moran for his leadership on this legislation in the Senate and thank my colleagues in the House for working together across the aisle for the greater good of the American people and the U.S. economy,” said Rep. Grimm. “I’m proud to lead Startup 2.0 in the House. U.S. immigration policy should help, not hurt, the ability of U.S. companies to attract top talent. As our economy continues to recover, we must further enable our entrepreneurs to grow and to create jobs. Startup 2.0 legislation is a natural follow-up to our efforts to jumpstart the economy and it is exactly the kind of legislation the United States needs to keep up with India, China and the rest of the global market,” said Rep. Sanchez. “The one thing we can all agree on is the need to jumpstart our economy and create jobs here at home. Startup Act 2.0 is a bipartisan, commonsense bill that will help to spur the economy and empower job creators by recognizing the importance of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education, empowering small businesses, and rethinking burdensome regulations that prevent job growth,” said Rep. Dold. “Americans need more jobs now, which means we should be doing everything possible to encourage the launch of great new American companies. By helping startups grow and succeed, we unleash the creative energies of entrepreneurs and innovators to take their great ideas and turn them into new job creating businesses. This is exactly the kind of bipartisan, job-creating legislation that Congress should act on immediately,” said Rep. Polis “The Startup Act 2.0 is a great example of Congress working in a bipartisan manner to put Americans back to work. This legislation will help keep America a global leader in the science, technology, engineering and mathematics fields, and in the competition for the brightest minds of future generations. Additionally, it will give small businesses much-needed support to stay afloat and add employees. I’m glad to be a part of this team working to move the Startup Act 2.0 through the House,” said Rep. Yoder. “The Startup Act will encourage investors who want their money to grow American jobs and it will put funding for research and development right on the cutting edge of discovery, at our colleges and universities. It will give the men and women who are educated in America, who want to innovate and invent in America, a chance to do exactly that. We can create jobs in America that can never be sent overseas. We can build products that lead the world. We can do what we have always done in this nation; invent, innovate and deliver on our potential. The Startup Act will help make that happen,” said Rep. Carnahan. “America has always attracted the best and brightest entrepreneurs. If we are to continue building on this legacy, we must act now. The Startup Act represents a powerful bipartisan approach in this regard,” said Rep. Nunes. Startup 2.0 helps increase America’s access to talent by creating a new set of conditional visas for 75,000 immigrant entrepreneurs and 50,000 foreign STEM graduate students, that are linked to the creation of American jobs. Research has demonstrated the positive impact of immigrants on American job creation: More than 40 percent of all Fortune 500 companies were founded by an immigrant or the child of an immigrant, and each foreign-born advanced degree holder who stays in the U.S. to work in a STEM occupation created an estimated 2.6 American jobs. The bill also creates tax incentives for the creation of new businesses. Research shows that startups create 3 million jobs per year, on average. In addition, over the past 30 years, companies less than five years old have created almost all the new net jobs in America. The bill has received industry support from Microsoft, Google, National Small Business Association (NSBA), CTIA, Consumer Electronics Association (CEA), Financial Services Forum, Computer and Communications Industry Association (CCIA), TechAmercia, Information Technology Industry (ITI), Compete America, Silicon Valley Leadership Group, and TechNet. "Technology companies are driving vital job growth and opportunity that is crucial to America's economic recovery. To sustain this growth, companies like Microsoft need to be able to recruit and retain the world's brightest minds, enabling them to work with our large number of American employees. We applaud Representatives Grimm and Sanchez for introducing this critical legislation that will help fuel innovation and create more jobs in this country. We urge Congress to pass this bipartisan legislation quickly,” said Brad Smith, General Counsel and Executive Vice President of Microsoft. “Now is the time to give America’s small businesses every tool possible to help them grow and create jobs. The Startup Act 2.0 does just that, including requiring cost-benefit analyses of federal regulations, bolstering research and innovation through tax credits and much more. I applaud Reps. Grimm and Sanchez for their leadership on this legislation,” stated NSBA President and CEO Todd McCracken. “This legislation consists of common sense approaches that will spur innovation, entrepreneurship and job creation. It is imperative that we allow foreign-born, U.S.-educated immigrants to remain in America and use their training to build businesses and create domestic jobs. Startup Act 2.0 makes it easier for innovators to raise funds, and clears away a variety of anachronistic regulations that have made it difficult for small businesses to expand and thrive. This bill is a slam-dunk. We applaud the introduction of this legislation and urge both the Senate and House of Representatives to pass these bills expeditiously,” said Michael Petricone, Senior VP of Government Affairs, Consumer Electronics Association (CEA). “As CornellNYC Tech proves, New York is well on its way to becoming a global leader in the tech sector. But for the tech companies in New York – and across America – to compete on a global stage, we need to make sure the world’s most talented people are welcomed to our shores, rather than turned away by an antiquated and self-destructive immigration system. Around the world, competing economies recognize that immigration policy should be approached as a key driver of economic prosperity – just like education, infrastructure or research and development – and are changing their policies to attract talent. The introduction of Startup 2.0 shows bipartisan agreement that America can no longer afford to wait – we must make every effort to attract and keep the world’s best minds, regardless of where they come from,” said NYC Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. The Startup Act 2.0 was also introduced in the Senate on May 22, 2012 by Senators Jerry Moran (R-KS), Mark Warner (D-VA), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Christopher Coons (D-DE). “To get America’s economic engine roaring once again, entrepreneurs must be free to pursue their ideas, start businesses in the United States, and create American jobs. These ideas have bipartisan support, and I am pleased my colleagues in the House are joining me in the effort to prove the critics wrong: Congress can get something done during an election year by coming together to strengthen the economy and create jobs,” said Senator Moran. “Startup 2.0 provides commonsense steps to support and encourage America’s innovators and entrepreneurs. Working together, we have come up with bipartisan proposals to help us compete and win in the global contest for talent, and this legislation is the logical follow-up to passage of the bipartisan JOBS Act earlier this year,” said Senator Warner. “There are so many ideas for strengthening our economy that Democrats and Republicans agree on, but Congress seems to focus obsessively on the areas we don’t. Startup Act 2.0, like the AGREE Act I was proud to introduce with Senator Rubio last fall, is about finding common ground and moving forward on it. I’m proud that this common ground now reaches into the House, thanks to Reps. Grimm and Sanchez, and look forward to working with them to help the bill pass in both chambers,” said Senator Coons. ###
06.06.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night, Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R-NYC) introduced the Startup Act 2.0 (H.R. 5893) in the House of Representatives. The Startup Act 2.0 is a bipartisan bill to create and keep jobs in NYC and the U.S.; increase America’s access to talent in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) by reforming high-skilled visa policies; and create opportunities for startup businesses with tax incentives and access to resources for innovation. “Startup 2.0 is about creating jobs here in NYC and throughout the county. Too often we educate the world’s best and brightest in STEM fields, only to send them back to nations like India and China to open businesses and compete against us. Startup 2.0 can help jumpstart NYC’s economy now by bringing high-tech training and jobs to our city, so that we can create our own Silicon Valley right here in New York, and ultimately emerge as a global leader in technology. I will continue to do all I can to work with my colleagues in the House and Senate to ensure that this bill swiftly becomes law,” said Rep. Michael Grimm. “As CornellNYC Tech proves, New York is well on its way to becoming a global leader in the tech sector. But for the tech companies in New York – and across America – to compete on a global stage, we need to make sure the world’s most talented people are welcomed to our shores, rather than turned away by an antiquated and self-destructive immigration system. Around the world, competing economies recognize that immigration policy should be approached as a key driver of economic prosperity – just like education, infrastructure or research and development – and are changing their policies to attract talent. The introduction of Startup 2.0 shows bipartisan agreement that America can no longer afford to wait – we must make every effort to attract and keep the world’s best minds, regardless of where they come from,” said NYC Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. Startup 2.0 helps increase America’s access to talent by creating a new set of conditional visas for 75,000 immigrant entrepreneurs and 50,000 foreign STEM graduate students, that are linked to the creation of American jobs. Research has demonstrated the positive impact of immigrants on American job creation: More than 40 percent of all Fortune 500 companies were founded by an immigrant or the child of an immigrant, and each foreign-born advanced degree holder who stays in the U.S. to work in a STEM occupation created an estimated 2.6 American jobs. The bill also creates tax incentives for the creation of new businesses. Research shows that startups create 3 million jobs per year, on average. In addition, over the past 30 years, companies less than five years old have created almost all the new net jobs in America. The bill has received industry support from Microsoft, Google, National Small Business Association (NSBA), CTIA, Consumer Electronics Association (CEA), Financial Services Forum, Computer and Communications Industry Association (CCIA), TechAmercia, Information Technology Industry (ITI), Compete America, Silicon Valley Leadership Group, and TechNet. "Technology companies are driving vital job growth and opportunity that is crucial to America's economic recovery. To sustain this growth, companies like Microsoft need to be able to recruit and retain the world's brightest minds, enabling them to work with our large number of American employees. We applaud Representatives Grimm and Sanchez for introducing this critical legislation that will help fuel innovation and create more jobs in this country. We urge Congress to pass this bipartisan legislation quickly,” said Brad Smith, General Counsel and Executive Vice President of Microsoft. “Now is the time to give America’s small businesses every tool possible to help them grow and create jobs. The Startup Act 2.0 does just that, including requiring cost-benefit analyses of federal regulations, bolstering research and innovation through tax credits and much more. I applaud Reps. Grimm and Sanchez for their leadership on this legislation,” stated NSBA President and CEO Todd McCracken. “This legislation consists of common sense approaches that will spur innovation, entrepreneurship and job creation. It is imperative that we allow foreign-born, U.S.-educated immigrants to remain in America and use their training to build businesses and create domestic jobs. Startup Act 2.0 makes it easier for innovators to raise funds, and clears away a variety of anachronistic regulations that have made it difficult for small businesses to expand and thrive. This bill is a slam-dunk. We applaud the introduction of this legislation and urge both the Senate and House of Representatives to pass these bills expeditiously,” said Michael Petricone, Senior VP of Government Affairs, Consumer Electronics Association (CEA). The House bill was introduced with original cosponsors: Reps. Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), Robert Dold (R-IL), Jared Polis (D-CO), Kevin Yoder (R-KS), Russ Carnahan (D-MO), and Devin Nunes (R-CA). The Startup Act 2.0 was also introduced in the Senate on May 22, 2012 by Senators Jerry Moran (R-KS), Mark Warner (D-VA), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Christopher Coons (D-DE).
06.01.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement expressing outrage by the failure of the House yesterday to pass H.R. 3541, the Prenatal Nondiscrimination Act (PRENDA), which would outlaw abortions performed solely because of the unborn infant’s gender, also known as “sex-selective abortions”: “I find it disappointing that legislation to outlaw the barbaric practice of sex-selective abortions failed to pass the House of Representatives. Beyond my religious and pro-life views, I believe to end the life of an unborn baby girl simply because her parents were hoping for a boy is absolutely disgusting and horrific, not to mention the ultimate betrayal of women’s rights. “This is more than a pro-life issue; this is a human rights issue. Gender-based abortions are the kind of terrible acts we hear about in nations abroad. As Americans, we are better than that. I will continue to work with my colleagues to garner more support to outlaw this reprehensible practice in the future.” ###
05.31.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the passage of his legislation, H.R. 3128, by the House Financial Services Committee which provides a technical correction to the Dodd-Frank Act that unintentionally placed New York’s Emigrant Bank in a position that would restrict billions of dollars in lending capacity, stifling business growth and job creation: “I am very proud of the legislation I sponsored that passed the Financial Services Committee today with bipartisan support. This is sound policy and good for the hard-working families and businesses in New York. This legislation fixes a problem that should have never needed to be fixed, but was an unintended consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act. “Failing to rectify such an unintended consequence would not only punish a local bank that took prudent and responsible measures during the financial crisis, but more importantly would drastically reduce lending to those on Main Street who need it most. At a time when hard-working families and businesses of New York are struggling to survive, reducing the bank’s lending capacity to our community by up to $4.5 billion would be reprehensible. “The fact that the media wants to distort the intentions of this sound legislation is of no consequence. I ran for office to be a leader and to do the right thing, and this legislation continues to accomplish those goals. Beyond being sound, responsible legislation that will help the residents in New York that need it most, I am proud of the overwhelming bipartisan support that shows how Congress can work together for the benefit of the local communities we represent.” Rep. Grimm’s H.R. 3128 passed the House Financial Services Committee by a vote of 35-15 with supporting votes from both Chairman Spencer Bachus (R-AL) and Ranking Member Barney Frank (D-MA). ###
05.17.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm’s (R,C-NY) amendment to save Brooklyn’s 24th National Guard Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Support Team (WMD-CST) from proposed cuts was voted unanimously to be included in the House’s FY 2013 National Defense Authorization Act. The Defense Department recommended disestablishing two of the 57 CSTs in FY13, specifically in New York and Florida. Rep. Grimm’s amendment introduced with Reps. Paul Tonko (D-NY), Gus Bilirakis (R-FL), and Kathy Castor (D-FL) would ensure that all 57 CSTs remain authorized. “At a time when New York City remains the number one terror target in the nation, it is completely nonsensical to cut such an essential asset to our safety and security. The 24th National Guard Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Support Team (WMD-CST) located at Fort Hamilton is highly-trained to respond to high-risk situations and assist the NYPD, first responders, and other agencies in response efforts. Preserving this team is crucial to New York’s security, and I thank my colleagues for lending their support to the passage of my amendment,” said Rep. Michael Grimm. “The unique assets and vulnerabilities of New York necessitate two WMD-CST teams on the ground here to keep our communities safe. I am proud to cast my vote in support of the ongoing mission at Stratton Air National Guard Base. Working across the aisle with my colleague, Congressman Michael Grimm, as well as our bipartisan colleagues from Florida, we achieved a victory today in the name of security and protection for all New Yorkers,” said Rep. Paul Tonko. The CST provides important assessment and guidance in the event of a WMD attack, emergency, or disaster. They work closely with NYC, the NYPD, the FDNY, and other agencies to keep New York safe. The 24th CST was established in a 2007 in a defense appropriations bill. By 2008, the team was hired, equipped, and individual-level trained. In 2009, it started team-level training and became fully certified in 2010. The CST is charged with providing support to U.S. civil authorities in the event of a chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, or high-yield explosive incident. Since 2010, the 24th WMD-CST has executed over 175 missions in support of local, state, and federal first responders’ crisis response, contingency operations preparation, and training exercises. The final passage of the House NDAA is expected tomorrow. The bill must also pass the Senate. ###
05.16.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Reps. Michael G. Grimm (R-NY), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Dave Reichert (R-WA), and Pedro Pierluisi (D-PR) hosted a bipartisan Police Week press conference thanking members of law enforcement for their daily commitment to keeping our communities safe and highlighting last night’s passage of the Grimm-Pierluisi National Blue Alert Act. Members also highlighted their support for the COPS, Regional Information Sharing Systems (RISS), and Byrne-JAG Programs. “As a former FBI special agent, it is a privilege to stand with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle in support of law enforcement, especially during Police Week. I am extremely grateful for the brave men and women of the NYPD who serve New York City under Commissioner Ray Kelly, and for all our nation’s law enforcement officers and agents. It is for this reason that I proudly introduced the National Blue Alert Act, which passed the House last night, and fought for the full funding of the COPS hiring program and the Regional Information Sharing Systems. Our law enforcement agents are the true heroes of our communities, and not only do they deserve our sincerest gratitude, but our unwavering support to ensure they have the tools and resources they need to keep our cities and our country safe,” said Rep. Michael Grimm (R-NY). "When it comes to our police officers and public safety, we’re all on the same side. I’m proud we’ve been able to come together, Democrats and Republicans, to stop these foolish cuts to the COPS hiring program, Regional Information Sharing Systems and Byrne Justice Assistance Grants. We’re going to stand up and protect our cops the way they stand up and protect our communities every day,” said Rep. Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), co-chair of the Congressional Law Enforcement Caucus. “Creating the National Blue Alert system is a crucial step forward in protecting our communities and preventing further tragedy. When a criminal murders a law enforcement officer, speedy apprehension is essential to protecting the public, preventing further loss of life and returning peace to communities. By creating a system to quickly disseminate crucial information, we empower ordinary citizens and public safety officers, increasing the speed of justice. It is my honor to add to the tools that officers at every level will use to keep America safe,” said Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA), co-chair of the Congressional Law Enforcement Caucus. “I am very pleased that the National Blue Act passed the House yesterday. This demonstrates that Republicans and Democrats can stake out common ground and identity solutions to the problems that confront us. In Congressman Grimm, a former FBI agent, I have found a partner to advance legislation to promote security and combat crime. I want to again thank our nation’s law enforcement officers for their service and their sacrifice. Please be assured that you can continue to count on me and my colleagues here today to stand with you and to make sure you have the tools you need to complete your critical mission,” said Rep. Pedro Pierluisi (D-PR), former Puerto Rico Attorney General (1993-1997). "I would like to commend Congressman Grimm, a true law enforcement leader, House Law Enforcement Caucus Co-Chairs Pascrell and Reichert, and other congressional leaders for demonstrating their unwavering support for America's Finest by creating the National Blue Alert Act," stated Jon Adler, FLEOA National President. "The need for Congress to invest in the law enforcement community is now more critical than ever before. Public safety, the lives of our families and friends, is being adversely affected by the cuts to funding brought upon by budget reductions and shortfalls. Funding for the COPS Hiring Program goes directly to law enforcement departments and can immediately be used to hire police officers," Tony Wieners, New Jersey State PBA, a member of the National Association of Police Organizations (NAPO). “Law Enforcement personnel are vital to our Nation’s security. Certainly with the new Homeland Security risks we face, the job of law enforcement has only become tougher and yet they take the oath and become the true front line in our war to defeat terror. During this week and every week I hope we remember the commitment and sacrifice that law enforcement officers have made on our behalf,” said Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX). “In honor of National Police Week, I am proud to be part of this bipartisan effort to support our law enforcement. In Upstate New York, our police officers keep our communities safe every day. It is imperative that we ensure they have the resources they need to do their job most effectively, and it was for that reason I was pleased to support additional funding for the COPS Hiring Grants as well National Blue Alert Act,” said Rep. Chris Gibson (R-NY). “When I served as mayor, I saw the commitment and dedication of law enforcement professionals every day. Law enforcement officers go to work not knowing if they will return home at the end of their shift. They put their lives on the line every day to protect our communities and to keep our neighborhoods safe. We owe our law enforcement professionals a tremendous debt of gratitude, so we in Congress are working to support them with the resources they need to keep people safe and return home safely,” said Rep. Lou Barletta (R-PA). “As we celebrate National Police Week, I am pleased to join with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to honor our law enforcement and thank them for all they do each and every day to protect our communities. An important part of honoring our law enforcement is ensuring they have the federal support they need to do their jobs. COPS Hiring Grants provide critical funds to local law enforcement, keeping more police on the beat and making our streets safer, and I will continue working to see the COPS program gets adequate funding,” said Rep. Doris Matsui (D-CA). In addition to thanking members of the law enforcement community, press conference attendees touted recent efforts in Congress, specifically the House passage of the Grimm-Pierluisi National Blue Alert Act (H.R. 365), which creates a national “Blue Alert” communications network to disseminate information on suspects sought in connection with the death or injury of a law enforcement officer. Similar to the nationwide AMBER Alert system for missing children, the Blue Alert would rapidly notify law enforcement agencies, the media, and the public to help aid in the apprehension of these violent criminals. Members also touted successful efforts to fully fund programs that support law enforcement, such as the COPS hiring program, which helps adequately staff our nation’s police forces; the Regional Information Sharing Systems (RISS) Program, which helps different levels of law enforcement share information to fight crime and terrorism; and the Byrne-JAG Program, which supports state and local government programs to fight crime and improve criminal justice. Rep. Grimm offered a special thanks to the Sergeant’s Benevolent Association, the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association (FLEOA), the National Association of Police Officers, the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Sheriff's Association, & the International Brotherhood of Police Officers. ###
05.15.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm’s (R,C-NY) legislation, the National Blue Alert Act (H.R. 365) passed the House. This bipartisan bill, introduced with Rep. Pedro Pierluisi (D-PR) would encourage and integrate a “Blue Alert” system throughout the United States in order to quickly disseminate information when a law enforcement officer is seriously injured or killed in the line of duty. This is Congressman Grimm’s fifth bill to pass the House. It passed with a vote of 394-1. “As a former FBI special agent, it is a privilege to have the House pass this important legislation, especially during Police Week,” said Rep. Grimm. “I am extremely grateful for the brave men and women of the NYPD who serve our great city under Commissioner Ray Kelly, and for all our nation’s law enforcement officers and agents. It is for this reason that I proudly introduced the National Blue Alert Act, which will allow us to act quickly in apprehending suspects and make it clear to anyone who chooses to harm our nation’s law enforcement officers that they will be caught. Our law enforcement agents are the true heroes of our communities, and I applaud my colleagues for passing this important bill and urge the Senate to quickly do the same.” “I am very pleased that this bill passed the House today. This demonstrates that Republicans and Democrats can stake out common ground and identity solutions to the problems that confront us. In Congressman Grimm, a former FBI agent, I have found a partner to advance legislation to promote security and combat crime,” said Rep. Pierluisi. "The National Blue Alert Act is a profound declaration of support for America's Finest, and I commend Congressman Grimm for his leadership to the law enforcement community," stated Jon Adler, FLEOA National President. The Blue Alert system would work in a similar fashion to the “Amber Alert” system currently used to locate abducted children. It would be implemented by law enforcement agencies, and state and local governments to speed up the apprehension of criminals who seriously injure or kill local, state, or federal law enforcement officers. Currently, there is no national alert system to disseminate information to other law enforcement, the media, or the general public in regards to officers who have been injured or killed; however, many states have created a state-level blue alert system in an effort to better inform their local communities. Rep. Grimm is a former FBI agent. The bill was introduced with Rep. Pedro Pierluisi (D-PR) who is a former Attorney General of Puerto Rico. The National Blue Alert Act (H.R. 365) has been endorsed by the Fraternal Order of Police, the Sergeant’s Benevolent Association, the National Sheriff's Association, the National Association of Police Officers, & the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association (FLEOA).
05.14.2012	BROOKLYN, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) held a press conference in response to the Department of Defense’s plan to eliminate the 24th National Guard Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Support Team (WMD-CST), located at Fort Hamilton, Brooklyn. The cuts were announced as part of the Administration’s FY13 budget proposal, which recommends disestablishing two of the 57 CSTs, specifically in New York and Florida. The CST provides important assessment and guidance in the event of a WMD attack, emergency, or disaster. They work closely with NYC, the NYPD, the FDNY, and other agencies to keep New York safe. “At a time when New York City remains the number one terror target in the nation, it is completely nonsensical to cut such an essential asset to our safety and security. The 24th National Guard Weapons of Mass Destruction Civil Support Team (WMD-CST) located at Fort Hamilton plays a crucial role in assisting our NYPD, first responders, and other agencies in the event high-risk situations. Shutting down NYC’s only CST would be a tremendous loss and could leave our city more vulnerable to attack. That is why I am fighting in Congress to ensure that it remains open,” said Rep. Michael Grimm. "It is unbelievable that a bureaucrat in Washington would want to eliminate such a necessary team such as this, especially in the wake of 9-11. I would challenge that faceless bureaucrat by introducing him to the families and taking him to Ground Zero and saying �?Now tell us that we don't need this CST here!’” said Army Reserves Major David Ryan, Iraq War Veteran and member of the Fort Hamilton Citizens Action Committee. "This unit was proud when they were founded just seven years ago because they knew, as the military knew, that they had a vital mission. The congressman is doing everything necessary and appropriate. There is no better friend to NYC,” said Jerry Kassar, Chief of Staff to State Senator Marty Golden. The 24th CST was established in a 2007 in a defense appropriations bill. By 2008, the team was hired, equipped, and individual-level trained. In 2009, it started team-level training and became fully certified in 2010. The CST is charged with providing support to U.S. civil authorities in the event of a chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, or high-yield explosive incident. Since 2010, the 24th WMD-CST has executed over 175 missions in support of local, state, and federal first responders’ crisis response, contingency operations preparation, and training exercises. Rep. Michael Grimm is fighting to preserve this important security asset for NYC, and is working with House colleagues to ensure that they are included in the upcoming FY 2013 National Defense Authorization Act. The congressman was joined at the press conference by members of the Dyker Heights Civic Association, Bay Ridge Community Council, Fort Hamilton Citizens Action Committee, the Neighborhood Improvement Association, Community Board Ten, and veterans of the Iraq War. ###
05.14.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representative Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) led 64 of his House colleagues in sending a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder, asking him to appoint an independent or special counsel to investigate MF Global. Many unanswered questions remain regarding what caused the massive shortfall in segregated customer accounts prior to MF Global’s bankruptcy. There are concerns that special treatment was granted to MF Global due to CEO Jon Corzine’s relationships with regulators. In addition, Jon Corzine has recently bundled over $500,000 for President Obama’s re-election campaign. At a time when the administration is under fire for the handling of Operation Fast and Furious, Solyndra, and the GSA scandal, a special counsel would remove even the perception of political favoritism by bringing in an outside special counsel. “I’d like to thank my colleagues who joined me in sending an important message to Attorney General Holder that a special counsel is essential in the MF Global investigation. Given the perception of special treatment of CEO Jon Corzine and this administration’s record of waste, fraud and abuse; I believe that a special counsel is needed to restore public confidence in our government and in the integrity of our markets. It is in the best interest of the Obama administration to show the American people and the many victims of MF Global, that when it comes to justice, there will be no playing favorites and everyone will be treated equally under the law,” said Rep. Grimm. “This issue has conflict of interest written all over it. It just doesn’t pass the smell test. Jon Corzine’s relationship with the President and his administration severely complicates this case. Attorney General Holder should do what is right for the victims of this massive bankruptcy and appoint a special counsel immediately. Those who were affected by MF Global’s collapse deserve and investigation that is free of conflict and speculation,” said Rep. Bob Turner (R-NY). "At a time when Americans' confidence in their government has been tested time and again by stories of waste and misconduct by government officials, it is vital to demonstrate that Congress is taking the appropriate steps to ensure the public's faith has not been misplaced. Concerns have been raised that special treatment was given to MF Global because of former CEO Jon Corzine’s relationships with regulators, the outcome of which led to thousands of hard working Americans feeling cheated by MF Global's actions. Bringing in an independent counsel would remove any perception of favoritism and help ensure a thorough investigation of the claims made against MF Global," Rep. Bill Huizenga (R-MI), member of the House Financial Services Committee. “The CCC salutes Rep. Grimm for spearheading his initiative to appoint an Independent Counsel in the MF Global case. It is paramount that lawmakers on both side of the aisle to support his proposition to bring about justice to the 38,000 customers of MF Global who have had over $1.6B of their property taken from them and to restore some much-needed integrity to the American financial system,” said James Koutoulas, President of the Commodity Customers Coalition (CCC). “I appreciate the efforts of the members of Congress, particularly Congressman Michael Grimm, who have taken an interest in righting this wrong. A wide cross-section of the economy has suffered as a result of MF Global’s bankruptcy, including farmers, ranchers, private investors, small business owners, as well as major corporations and financial institutions. Perhaps more importantly, it has called into question the confidence that everyone needs to have in the integrity of the financial markets and the regulatory system, which is supposed to be in place to protect the public,” said Stanley Haar, Senior Advisor to the Commodity Customers Coalition (CCC). The letter was signed by GOP Representatives Michael Grimm, Bill Posey, Stevan Pearce, Scott Garrett, Timothy Johnson, Edward Royce, Pete Sessions, Peter Roskam, Donald Mazullo, Walter Jones, Patrick McHenry, Michele Bachman, Thaddeus McCotter, Lynn Westmoreland, Blaine Luetkemeyer, Bill Huizenga, Sean Duffy, James Renacci, Thomas Rooney, Bob Gibbs, Stephen Fincher, Scott Tipton, Martha Roby, Tim Huelskamp, Randy Hultgren, Vicky Hartzler, Robert Schilling, Michael Turner, Ann Marie Buerkle, Joe Walsh, Trey Gowdy, Dennis Ross, Mike Kelly, Steve Chabot, J. Randy Forbes, Trent Franks, Jim Jordan, Sandy Adams, Benjamin Quayle, Sam Graves, Jeff Miller, Denny Rehberg, Joe Wilson, Marsha Blackburn, Mario Diaz-Balart, Jim Gerlach, Phil Gingrey, Charles Boustany, Gus Bilirakis, Paul Broun, Lynn Jenkins, Leonard Lance, Aaron Schock, Mark Amodei, Lou Barletta, Charles Fleischmann, Cory Gardner, Bill Johnson, Adam Kinzinger, Jeffrey Landry, Alan Nunnelee, Jon Runyan, Robert Turner, Allen West, and Kevin Yoder. ### The text of the letter is below: May 14, 2012 The Honorable Eric Holder Attorney General of the United States U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 Dear Attorney General Holder, We are writing to request the appointment of a special counsel to take over the investigation into possible criminal wrongdoing surrounding the collapse of MF Global. At a time when the American people’s confidence in government has been badly eroded by repeated examples of waste, fraud and professional misconduct by government officials and agencies, even the perception of impropriety and special treatment of certain individuals must be avoided at all costs. This is especially important in regard to the case of MF Global. The firm’s CEO at the time of the firm’s bankruptcy was Jon Corzine, a former United States Senator and Governor of New Jersey. Due to Mr. Corzine’s long tenure in both the financial services industry and as an elected official, he naturally developed many relationships with highly placed individuals in the government who are very close to the investigation of the MF Global collapse. For example, Mr. Corzine was a former colleague of the Honorable Gary Gensler, the current chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), the agency that had primary responsibility for regulating MF Global, a Futures Commission Merchant (FCM), prior to its bankruptcy as well as investigating what went wrong post-bankruptcy, particularly with respect to violations of the Commodity Exchange Act that are designed to protect customer funds. We have learned through various investigations, including the one being lead by the House Financial Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, that there has been a pattern of regulatory behavior beginning in the summer of 2011, and continuing to this day, which afforded preferential treatment to MF Global at the expense of parties who are to be protected by governmental agencies, such as the CFTC and SEC. Those parties include customers, shareholders and bondholders, and the general public. Prior to the demise of MF Global, as the result of the direct lobbying efforts of Mr. Corzine and other high level executives, the CFTC delayed certain regulatory changes that would have enhanced customer protections. Specifically, CFTC records show that Mr. Corzine had phone meetings with CFTC Chairman Gensler and Commissioner Chilton on July 20, 2011 regarding changes to rule 1.25. This rule change had been unresolved since being proposed on November 3, 2010, which would have restricted the allowable investments that customer funds could be placed in. These changes, which would become known as the "MF Global Rule," were hastily enacted only after the firm failed. Further, the SEC delayed the release of information regarding the dire financial situation at MF Global, the material disclosure of which would have been of great value to investors and customers, and could have mitigated their losses. In addition, it was revealed on Friday April 21, 2012 that Mr. Corzine was listed as a “first quarter volunteer fundraiser” by President Obama’s campaign, having raised over $500,000 for the President’s re-election. Clearly it would not strain credulity for the American people to perceive a conflict of interest when an individual raises such large sums of money for the President’s re-election campaign and who is at the same time possibly under investigation by an agency or agencies controlled by the administration for possible criminal wrongdoing. In fact, the special counsel provisions in the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 28 Chapter VI Part 600.1, provide for the Attorney General to appoint a special counsel in cases where “(a) that investigation or prosecution of that person or matter by a United States Attorney’s Office or litigating Division of the Department of Justice would present a conflict of interest for the Department or other extraordinary circumstances; and (b) that under the circumstances, it would be in the public interest to appoint an outside special counsel to assume responsibility for the matter.” Clearly the case of MF Global and Mr. Corzine falls under this section. We wish to be clear that, at this time, we have no direct evidence that either your office or the Department of Justice is providing special treatment in this case. However, as we previously stated, perception matters a great deal in times such as this, especially in light of the fact that the SEC and the CFTC structured this bankruptcy in a manner that many experts agree puts the customers of MF Global at a disadvantage, as well as conducted a series of questionable actions that may have resulted in direct harm to the public interest, we believe that an independent investigation is urgently needed. In order to begin the long and difficult process of restoring the trust and confidence of the American people in their government, and to reaffirm that every American is treated equally under the law, we are calling on you to appoint a special counsel for the investigation regarding MF Global. We look forward to your prompt reply. Sincerely,
05.08.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – This evening, Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) successfully amended the House Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Act (H.R. 5326) with language to fully fund the Regional Information Sharing Systems (RISS) Program, which helps different levels of law enforcement share information to fight crime and terrorism, and with additional language to fund the COPS hiring program. “Our law enforcement officers put their lives on the line each and every day to keep our communities safe from crime and violence, so it is imperative that our local police are fully staffed and equipped with the all the tools they need,” said Grimm. “I support making responsible budget decisions, and that is why these amendments were drafted to be budget neutral and don’t add a dime to government spending. I am proud to stand up for our city’s heroes and am pleased that my colleagues joined me in doing the same to pass these important amendments.” The RISS amendment, introduced with Reps. Peter King (R-NY) and Lou Barletta (R-PA), restores funding for regional information sharing activities to the FY2011 funding level of $45 million, and is fully offset by reducing funding for NOAA climate research. RISS is a valuable tool that helps nearly 9,000 federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and U.S. territories share information more effectively in order to combat terrorism, dangerous criminals, gangs, and sex offenders. Since 2000, RISS support has yielded $942.5 million in narcotics, property and case seizures alone (a 223% return on federal investment) and contributed to more than 57,360 arrests. The amendment passed with a vote of 209-199. The COPS amendment, introduced with Reps. Pedro Pierluisi (D-PR), Peter King (R-NY), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), and Lou Barletta (R-PA), would fund the COPS Program at the Fiscal Year 2012 level of $166 million, which is $122 million above the amount provided in the base bill. This amendment will help ensure that we have sufficient police officers on our streets to prevent and respond to crime and to keep our neighborhoods safe. It is supported by of the International Brotherhood of Police Officers. The amendment passed the House with a vote of 206-204. ###
05.01.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the 1-year anniversary of the death of Osama Bin Laden: “Last year’s death of Osama Bin Laden brought long-awaited justice for the American people and the fulfillment of a promise made in the wreckage of the World Trade Center. However, one year later, we are no safer than we were that day from the looming threat of terrorism, and thus we must remain vigilant. “The death of Bin Laden united our nation a year ago and as we move forward in the war on terror, it is important that that unity remains. Unfortunately, our president has used this as an opportunity to politicize the issue, instead of bringing us together and leading us forward as a strong force against those who wish to do us harm. The security of the United States isn’t a Republican or Democratic issue. It’s an American issue. “As the terrorists become more creative and sophisticated, we must remain one step ahead of them. Our law enforcement and intelligence officers must continue to receive the tools and training they need, and our citizens must remain vigilant. Our troops must continue to receive our support and appreciation for their bravery and relentless commitment to fighting the war on terror throughout the globe. “Today is not a day for celebration. Instead, today we should remember our loved ones lost on 9/11 and show our unwavering gratitude to those who brought a bit of justice to us one year ago, and to those who continue to put their lives on the line for the safety and security of our great nation. God Bless America.” Rep. Michael Grimm served as a U.S. Marine in the Gulf War and was a first responder on 9/11. ###
04.25.2012	WASHINGTON, DC –Rep. Michael G. Grimm’s (R,C-NY) legislation, the National Blue Alert Blue Alert Act (H.R. 365) cleared a key hurdle today by passing unanimously through the House Judiciary Committee, putting it on a path to consideration by the full House. “I am thrilled that the House Judiciary Committee has given its unanimous support to move this bill swiftly through the committee and to the House floor for a vote,” said Rep. Grimm. “The National Blue Alert Act will allow us to act quickly in apprehending suspects and make it clear to anyone who chooses to harm our nation’s law enforcement officers that they will be caught. Our law enforcement officers put their lives on the line every day for our safety and protection. They are the true heroes of our communities, and I am proud that the members of the committee see the value in their work and the need for swift passage of this legislation.” This bipartisan bill would encourage and integrate a “Blue Alert” system throughout the United States in order to quickly disseminate information when a law enforcement officer is seriously injured or killed in the line of duty. The Blue Alert system would work in a similar fashion to the “Amber Alert” system currently used to locate abducted children. It would be implemented by law enforcement agencies, and state and local governments to speed up the apprehension of criminals who seriously injure or kill local, state, or federal law enforcement officers. Currently, there is no national alert system to disseminate information to other law enforcement, the media, or the general public in regards to officers who have been injured or killed; however, many states have created a state-level blue alert system in an effort to better inform their local communities. H.R. 365 creates the national Blue Alert Program within the Department of Justice. Each year Congress authorizes funds under the COPS Technology Program, for technology and automated systems that help state and local law enforcement agencies prevent, respond to, and investigate crime. This bill authorizes $10 million of already budgeted funds from the COPS Program to be appropriated for the creation of Blue Alert systems throughout the country. It also directs the Department of Justice to designate a national coordinator for the program who will encourage states to develop Blue Alert plans, establish voluntary guidelines, and develop protocols for suspect apprehension. Rep. Grimm is a former FBI agent. The bill was introduced with Rep. Pedro Pierluisi (D-PR) who is a former Attorney General of Puerto Rico. The National Blue Alert Act (H.R. 365) has been endorsed by the Fraternal Order of Police, the Sergeant’s Benevolent Association, the National Sheriff's Association, the National Association of Police Officers, & the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association (FLEOA).
04.17.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on Tax Day: “Today is Tax Day – a day dreaded by many, as individuals, families and businesses make a last minute dash to file their taxes. As we file, we are reminded of the dire need to reform our broken and over-complicated tax code. I fully support the Republican plan that closes loopholes for special interests, lowers rates, and broadens the base – making our tax structure flatter, simpler, and fairer. This will allow our businesses to become more competitive and our families to receive some much-needed relief. It’s time the government stops taking all our money to fund Washington’s reckless spending addiction and puts it back into the hands of hard-working Americans. “Unfortunately, the president’s misguided policies seek to do the opposite. In his latest political gimmick – the president has proposed the Buffett Rule, which only adds another layer of taxes to our already complex code. This is nothing more than politics as usual from the latest chapter in President Obama’s book of class warfare rhetoric. In reality, this new tax hardly puts a dent in our growing deficit, fails to provide relief to America’s working families, and won’t create a single job. Even the Democratic-led Senate couldn’t muster up enough support to pass this sham of a policy in yesterday’s vote. “I remain committed to working towards a solution that simplifies our tax code and provides real relief to the hard-working people of Staten Island and Brooklyn. We have been taxed and tolled to death and we have had enough. It’s time for a common-sense plan that keeps more of our hard-earned money in our own pockets, not another presidential gimmick.” ###
04.12.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-S.I./Brooklyn) led a ceremony to rename the post office at 45 Bay Street on Staten Island the “Sergeant Angel Mendez Post Office,” after a fallen local Marine who was killed in combat during the Vietnam War while saving the life of his Platoon Commander Lieutenant Ronald D. Castille. The post office renaming is the direct result of legislation (H.R. 2422) authored by Rep. Grimm and signed into law on January 3, 2012 by President Obama. This is the congressman’s first bill to become law and he was joined today at the ceremony by local officials, members of the Mendez family, USPS officials, and local veterans. “I wanted my first bill signed into law to be meaningful to our community. The ‘Sergeant Angel Mendez Post Office’ will memorialize the heroism of a local fallen Marine, Sgt. Angel Mendez, and serve as a constant reminder of the sacrifices that he and all our nation’s heroes have made for our country and for others. It is only fitting that this building, located in the St. George neighborhood, also houses an armed forces recruiting center – where our future military heroes can reflect on Sgt. Mendez’s service to our nation. As a fellow Marine, I was honored to lead this successful effort, ensuring that Sgt. Mendez’s legacy will live on in his native Staten Island and continue to inspire us all. Semper Fi,” said Congressman Michael Grimm. “Today we’re renaming the St. George Post Office in honor of a native son and brave Vietnam veteran who laid down his life to save his commander and protect the freedoms of all Americans. I am proud to stand with Congressman Grimm at this dedication and hope that when young people walk through the doors of the ‘Sergeant Angel Mendez Post Office,’ they will be inspired by his heroism and truly understand what it really means to be a Marine and an American,” said Staten Island Borough President James P. Molinaro. Angel Mendez was born to Puerto Rican-American parents, but was raised in the Mission of the Immaculate Virgin, an orphanage located in Mount Loretto in Staten Island. After graduating high school in 1964 Angel volunteered to join the Marine Corps during the Vietnam War, and was assigned to Company F, 2nd Battalion, 7th Marines, 1st Marine Division as a Corporal. During a search and destroy mission on March 16, 1967, Mendez and his company were engaged in an intense firefight with the Viet Cong. With half of his platoon trapped under enemy fire and Platoon Commander, Lieutenant Ronald D. Castille seriously wounded and unable to move to safety, Mendez volunteered to lead a squad to help his fellow Marines. Mendez shielded Lt. Castille with his own body as he dressed the wound and attempted to carry the Platoon Commander to safety when he was shot in the shoulder. Mendez was shielding Castille and the other Marines with his own body when he was shot again and mortally wounded. Lt. Castille survived the attack and became district attorney of Philadelphia and later Chief Justice of the Pennsylvania Supreme Court. Mendez was posthumously promoted to Sergeant and awarded the Navy Cross. Rep. Grimm has been involved in an ongoing effort to posthumously reward Mendez’s heroism with the Medal of Honor - a request that has been denied by the Navy. The bill was cosponsored by every House member of the New York congressional delegation and was supported by Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand.
03.26.2012	WASHINGTON, DC –Today, Representative Michael G. Grimm’s (R,C-NY) Business Risk Mitigation and Price Stabilization Act of 2011 (H.R. 2682) passed the House of Representatives 370-24 with overwhelming bipartisan support. This bill can help save over 100,000 U.S. jobs, free up capital for job creation, and keep prices stable for consumers by exempting true end-users (companies or firms) that use derivatives to hedge legitimate business risk from the margin requirements imposed by Dodd-Frank. “Although this is a technical bill, it boils down to two specific objectives: 1) Keeping prices stable and as low as possible for consumers and 2) Creating and saving jobs in the U.S., instead of sending them overseas,” said Grimm. “At a time when the residents of Staten Island and Brooklyn are struggling with sky high tolls and rising gas prices, they simply cannot afford to pay more for items they rely on every day, from food to energy. My legislation helps keep prices low at a time when many families cannot afford to spend a penny more on the items they need to survive.” True end-users are companies that use derivatives to manage an actual business risk - generally to hedge against fluctuating prices, currency rates, or interest rates - and not to speculate. If true end-users were required to post margin, their hedging costs may become so high that they could abandon the practice, leading to great price variations for raw materials, and ultimately an increase in consumer prices for a whole host of products, from food to energy. For example, a chocolate company may use derivatives to hedge against fluctuating cocoa prices, in order to keep purchasing cocoa at the same price. If the company is forced to abandon the use of derivatives due to these costly regulations and if the price of cocoa increases, consumers will then pay more for hot chocolate or candy bars. The same applies to other consumer goods, such as groceries or energy. “I am proud of the fact that at a time when most Americans perceive Congress as a broken institution where Democrats and Republicans cannot work together, I passed a bill with overwhelming bipartisan support,” said Grimm. “Where there’s a will, there’s a way and I will not abandon my conviction to fight for a Congress that works together. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to do the same.” The bill was initially introduced on July 28, 2011 by Rep. Grimm with Reps. Gary Peters (D-MI), Austin Scott (R-GA), and Bill Owens (D-NY) as original cosponsors. ###
03.22.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement after the House, in a bipartisan vote, passed H.R. 5, the "Protecting Access to Health Care Act,” which repeals the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB): “Today, I voted to repeal one of the most contentious pieces of Obamacare, the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB). This panel of 15 unelected and unaccountable bureaucrats has been tasked with cutting Medicare and given the power to ration care for our seniors. The Board’s decisions cannot be challenged in courts, and its members are accountable to no one – not to Congress, not to our seniors, and not to the American people. “Putting the health and well-being of our nation’s seniors in the hands of Washington bureaucrats with essentially limitless power is unacceptable. In addition, simply making cuts to Medicare without sustainable reforms, will limit our seniors’ access to care, as doctors will no longer be able to afford to see patients with cuts to reimbursements. In order to preserve the level of care for our current and future seniors, Medicare must be reformed, not cut by the IPAB. “I believe that healthcare decisions must be made by the patients and their healthcare providers, not the federal government, which is why I have been a strong advocate for eliminating IPAB. Today’s vote is one that helps empower our seniors, protects the doctor-patient relationship, and ensures access to high quality, affordable care.”
03.22.2012	WASHINGTON, DC - Yesterday, a resolution, H.Con.Res.108, introduced by Reps. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) and Patrick Meehan (R-PA) unanimously passed the House to authorize the use of the Capitol rotunda on April 19, 2012, for a ceremony as part of the commemoration of the days of remembrance of victims of the Holocaust. “As horrific as the events of the Holocaust were, it is important that we do not forget the atrocities of the past, so that we never again allow them to be repeated,” said Rep. Grimm. “This April 19th, members of Congress will join millions throughout our nation for a somber reflection on the events of the Holocaust, as we retell the stories of the Jewish and non-Jewish people whose lives were taken at the hands of Nazi tyranny, as well as of those who survived. The U.S. Holocaust Museum is tasked with leading the nation in commemorating the Days of Remembrance, and as a member the Museum’s Holocaust Memorial Council, I am pleased that I could facilitate the use of the U.S. Capitol rotunda for such an important remembrance ceremony.” On April 18, 2011, House Speaker John Boehner announced the appointment of Congressman Michael G. Grimm to the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum’s Holocaust Memorial Council. The Meehan-Grimm resolution was cosponsored by all five House members on the Council, which includes Rep. Meehan. Rep. Grimm also serves a co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus.
03.21.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) sent a letter to U.S. Maritime Administrator David Matsuda asking that the Global Maritime and Transportation School (GMATS) at Kings Point be relocated to the Seaman’s Institute at Snug Harbor on Staten Island. The school is slated to close after 17 years of operation at the US Merchant Marine Academy. Relocating its courses to Staten Island ensures that this job training opportunity stays in the Northeast and will continue to serve the New York City area. “The maritime industry is at the heart of the economic vitality of our region. In order for that to continue, we must preserve opportunities to receive top-notch maritime job training in the NYC area. That is why I am calling upon the U.S. Maritime Administration to relocate the GMATS courses and equipment to the Seaman’s Institute, so that we may keep our region’s ports competitive in a global marketplace. This is an incredible opportunity to bring new jobs to Staten Island and an opportune moment to see Snug Harbor return in part to its historic mission – to be a haven for sailors and merchant marines,” said Rep. Grimm "Congressman Grimm is working to preserve hundreds of existing jobs and is creating thousands of new job opportunities for New Yorkers by preserving and relocating the maritime training courses and equipment from Kings Point GMATS to Snug Harbor on Staten Island. Mr. Grimm will be keeping the cost of continuing education affordable for over 7,000 mariners working in NY Harbor, and will make training accessible and affordable for entry-level Staten Islanders so that they too can find work in their home port. The Seaman’s Institute and the maritime industry are grateful to Congressman Grimm and his staff for their efforts. We stand ready to assume the new responsibilities and pledge to make the entry-level training available as soon as possible.” said Captain Curt Ward of the Seaman's Institute, a 501c (3) located on the grounds of Snug Harbor and already approved by the United States Coast Guard as a training facility. "On behalf of Community Board 1, I want to thank Congressman Grimm for his support of the maritime industry. The availability of certified maritime training courses in the New York City area will help to insure that our working waterfront continues to operate," said Laticia Remauro, Community Board 1. The primary mission of the Global Maritime and Transportation School (GMATS) at Kings Point is to offer leading edge education and training programs that will benefit professionals from the maritime and transportation. It also seeks to encourage worldwide trade by providing mariners and business professionals with the requisite skills needed to operate intermodal transportation systems in the worldwide economy that are safe, efficient, and environmentally compliant. Rep. Grimm seeks to bring these courses to Staten Island once the GMATS at Kings Point closes. ### A copy of the letter is posted below and attached: March 21, 2012 David T. Matsuda Maritime Administrator US Maritime Administration US Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE Washington, DC 20590 Dear Administrator Matsuda, I am writing to you about the impending closure of the Global Maritime and Transportation School (GMATS) at Kings Point. It is my understanding that this school will close its doors after 17 years of providing education to individuals at the US Merchant Marine Academy. While I understand that improprieties discovered at the program may necessitate its termination, it is of paramount importance to the vitality of the maritime industry of the Northeast that these courses continue to remain available to the region. The Seaman’s Institute at Snug Harbor on Staten Island would make an excellent site for these courses to continue to be offered. The Institute is an established 501c(3) organization that already offers many of the educational opportunities that GMATS once did and has the space to accommodate future growth in the program. The Port of New York is one of the great economic engines of our region, and New Yorkers deserve to have the opportunities to train to become a part of an industry that calls our state and region its home. The Seaman’s Institute has the facilities, the faculty, and the expertise to prevent the important training that GMATS once did from disappearing from the Northeast. I ask that the Institute be considered as the repository for the intellectual property and equipment held by GMATS that it is fully prepared to take. Sincerely, Michael G. Grimm
03.20.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the House Republican budget introduced this morning by Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan: “I applaud Budget Chairman Paul Ryan on the release of the House Republicans’ ‘Path to Prosperity’ budget for FY2013. This budget comes a time when President Obama has failed to take action to stop our looming debt and when Senate Democrats have – for over 1,000 days - refused to pass a budget of their own. Since taking office, President Obama has added $5 trillion to our deficit, with no end in sight to the out-of-control spending and reckless borrowing. This must end. “The GOP budget restores spending discipline, reforms our broken tax code, strengthens our health and retirement security, and promotes an all-of-the-above energy approach that will help lower gas prices. By building on bipartisan solutions, this budget will get Americans back to work, reduce our debt, and preserve Medicare for current and future seniors. “Our country is at a crossroads. We can continue down President Obama’s path of debt and decline, or we can change course towards a future of economic freedom. I believe we must change course if we want to create a brighter future for our children and grandchildren, and that is why I support the House Republican budget.” ###
03.13.2012	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Today, Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) joined Raj Patel of Boy Scout Troop 77 in folding the 911th pocket-sized American flag, which will be sent to those serving overseas. As part of his Eagle Scout service project, Raj Patel is coordinating with fellow Scouts, borough veterans and Project Homefront to fold and package at least 911 pocket-sized American flags to send to troops. Eagle Scout is the highest rank in Boy Scouting, and earning this rank includes organizing and executing a project that benefits the community. Rep. Grimm, a Marine combat veteran, knows what it’s like to be on the frontlines and receive something from back home. “I’m excited for them because I know what it’s going to do,” said Grimm. “It’s going to bring an instant smile to their face. For some it’s going to choke them up, bring a tear to their eye. And I guarantee they will keep that flag for as long as they possibly can. This little flag is a reminder for them that we haven’t forgotten, that we are praying for them, that we love them, and we appreciate so much their sacrifice and all that they’re enduring for the sake of liberty and freedom.” Rep. Michael Grimm praised Patel saying, “This is a young man who ‘gets it’ and exemplifies what we want to see in the future of America.” On folding the 911th flag, he added, “It’s truly an honor for me just to be a part of this project.” Raj Patel picked the flag project because he felt it would be a “great morale booster” for the troops. He himself wants to attend the Naval Academy and become a Marine officer. “When I become a Marine officer, I know that I would want to be appreciated for what I’m doing,” said Patel. “I put myself in the troops’ shoes” in deciding to do the flag project. He also picked the project because “every citizen should know how to fold a flag.” For the project, Patel will send at least 911 flags – commemorating the 10th anniversary of 9/11 – to troops, through Project Homefront, the New Dorp-based organization that sends packages of food and supplies overseas. Patel got the idea for the project online, when reading about the Pocket Flag Project, which also supplied the 8”x12” American-made flags. Patel sought assistance from local veterans from the Marine Corps League, Sunnyside, and the Veterans of Foreign Wars – the Richmond County, Brian F. Wallace, Blazing Star, Oakwood Heights and North Shore posts. The veterans contributed more than $500 toward the purchase of the flags and mailing costs. Patel, 16, is a junior at Xaverian High School in Brooklyn, but lives in West Brighton. Raj Patel has been in the Scouts since 3rd grade and joined because he liked “they way they do service and give back to the community.”
03.08.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) voted for the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act (H.R. 3606), a legislative package designed to jumpstart our economy by restoring opportunities for small businesses and entrepreneurs, which passed the House today. The JOBS Act includes six pieces of pro-jobs legislation that have all received bipartisan support. “With recent toll hikes and rising gas prices, Staten Islanders are badly in need of new economic opportunities,” said Grimm. “The JOBS Act cuts the red tape and over-regulation, creating a more viable environment for our entrepreneurs and small businesses to grow and create jobs. By getting big government out of the way, this bill will increase access to capital and reduce the uncertainty from Washington that has been stifling economic growth. The JOBS Act sends the message that ‘America is open for business,’ and I am proud to support it. ” The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (JOBS Act) removes government barriers to job creation and economic activity. The JOBS Act, comprised of six bills previously approved by the Financial Services Committee, of which Rep. Grimm is a member, is designed to help startups and entrepreneurs get off the ground, access capital and create jobs. These initiatives have all received strong bipartisan support in Congress and from the President’s Jobs Council and the business community. On March 6, 2011, the Obama Administration issued a statement of support. The following six bills are part of the JOBS Act: H.R. 3606, the Reopening American Capital Markets to Emerging Growth Companies Act of 2011, introduced by Reps. Stephen Fincher and John Carney, makes it easier for more small and medium size companies to access the capital markets by reducing the cost of going public. H.R. 2940, introduced by Rep. Kevin McCarthy, removes the regulatory ban that prevents small, privately held companies from using advertisements to solicit accredited investors across the country. H.R. 2930, introduced by Rep. Patrick McHenry, removes SEC restrictions that prevent “crowdfunding” so entrepreneurs can raise equity capital from a large pool of small investors who may or may not be considered “accredited” by the SEC. H.R. 1070, the “Small Company Capital Formation Act,” which was introduced by Rep. David Schweikert, makes it easier for small businesses to go public by increasing the offering threshold for companies exempted from SEC registration from $5 million to $50 million. H.R. 2167, the “Private Company Flexibility and Growth Act,” which was introduced by Rep. Schweikert, removes an impediment to capital formation for small companies by raising the shareholder threshold for mandatory registration with the SEC from 500 to 1,000 shareholders. H.R. 4088, the “Capital Expansion Act,” which was introduced by Representative Ben Quayle, is a modified version of legislation previously approved by the House. It raises the threshold for mandatory registration under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 from 500 shareholders to 2,000 shareholders for all banks and bank holding companies and raises the shareholder deregistration threshold from 300 shareholders to 1,200 shareholders.
03.01.2012	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-NY) voted for H.R. 1837, the Sacramento-San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act, which would restore water supplies to key farmland, provide job certainty and decrease reliance on foreign food sources. The bill modifies an over-reaching federal regulation that led to the deliberate diversion of over 300 billion gallons of water away from farmers and cost thousands of farm workers their jobs, to protect a 3-inch fish – the Delta smelt. “This is a responsible bill that overturns an irresponsible regulation,” said Grimm. “As the regulation stands, it not only kills American jobs, but puts our national food supply at risk – driving up prices for consumers across the nation and increasing our dependence on imports- all to protect a 3-inch fish. This bill would provide relief from over-regulation while protecting jobs and saving the American taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars. This is the type of common-sense, pro-jobs bill that I am proud to support.” California’s San Joaquin Valley provides the majority of fruits vegetables for the entire nation. The 2009 regulation puts the region at risk of facing a man-made drought and becoming a dust bowl. The bill provides a comprehensive solution that would restore water deliveries that have been cut-off due to federal regulations and environmental lawsuits, ensure a reliable water supply for people and fish, secure water rights, and save taxpayer money by ending unnecessary and dubious government projects. The bill would protect up to 30,000 jobs, generate up to $300 million in expedited federal revenue, and save American taxpayers and ratepayers hundreds of millions of dollars. The bill passed the House today by a vote of 246-175. ###
02.24.2012	NEW YORK, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-S.I./Brooklyn) applauded the decision of the Port Authority’s Executive Director Patrick Foye to light One World Trade Center in red to honor the elevation of Archbishop Dolan to cardinal. After Rep. Grimm’s request to light up the Empire State Building - which is traditionally lit to honor various causes and individuals - was denied yesterday by the building’s Lighting Partner Committee, the congressman made a similar request to the Port Authority. The Port Authority has agreed to light One World Trade Center – at no cost to the agency - beginning tonight, February 24th, for one week. “Giving up is not in my DNA. Where there is a will there is a way, and One WTC is even more appropriate as a symbol of hope, courage and the bright future of New York, all of which Cardinal Dolan exemplifies,” said Grimm. “I applaud the Port Authority’s decision to step up and honor our hometown hero by lighting One Word Trade Center in cardinal red. This illumination will not just serve as a celebration of Cardinal Dolan, but of all our city’s heroes. It is an opportunity for all of us to honor the lives and bravery of those we lost, and to show our pride for a local leader who has given so much to the people of New York with his faith and charity.” Upon its completion, One World Trade Center will become the tallest building in New York City, standing at 1,776 feet. It will have a public observation deck on the 100th and 101st floors for all to enjoy the view of city. The building’s construction has been moving at a pace of about a floor a week, and the steel construction has been completed to the 92nd floor as of today. ###
02.23.2012	NEW YORK, NY – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-S.I./Brooklyn) issued the following statement in response to the letter he received from the Empire State Building’s Lighting Partnership Committee denying his request to light the top of the building red in honor of Archbishop Dolan’s elevation to cardinal: “I am disappointed that the Empire State Building’s Lighting Partner Committee has declined the opportunity to honor New York’s Cardinal Dolan, and I strongly encourage them to reconsider their position. Cardinal Dolan is more than just a man of faith, he’s a beloved leader in our community and a hometown hero. His new role is something all New Yorkers can be proud of, which is why I couldn’t think of a better way to show our pride than by lighting the top of the Empire State Building ‘cardinal red.’” To see what causes were deemed light-worthy by the committee, please visit: http://www.esbnyc.com/current_events_tower_lights.asp
02.22.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the proposed dividends tax hikes in President Obama’s FY 2013 Budget Proposal: “It’s clear from President Obama’s FY2013 Budget Proposal that he only wants to punish the American people – particularly our seniors – to continue his addiction to spending on more big government and wasting it on failed policies like Solyndra. “If President Obama has his way, tax rates on dividends could reach 44.8% next year – that’s triple our current 15% rate. Some of the increase comes from the phase-out of exemptions and deductions. Another comes from the 3.8% investment tax surcharge imposed on earnings to pay for Obamacare, which I am fighting to repeal with legislation I’ve introduced in the House. “Disguised as another ‘tax the rich’ proposal, it’s our nation’s seniors who will really take a hit. Almost 75% of dividend payments are to recipients over the age of 55, and more than half go to those older than 65, according to the IRS. Historically, when tax rates on dividends go up, we see lower payouts, which means less money in everyone’s pockets and less available to inject back into our struggling economy. Higher taxes are also not a surefire way to raise revenue. We’re seeing this now in the UK, where attempts to raise revenue have failed miserably after the government imposed a 50% tax rate on Britain’s highest earners. “When our ancestors came to this country, they came here with the hope of creating a better life and brighter future for themselves and their children. They fought for our nation, they worked hard, and they invested in their future. Now that this generation has reached its prime, President Obama has darkened their rosy dreams of retirement. Whether it be this proposed tax hike or the president’s refusal to address the inevitable bankruptcy of Medicare, one thing remains clear: At a time when America’s seniors need us more than ever, the Obama Administration has turned its back on them.” On April 14, 2011, Rep. Grimm introduced H.R. 1549 to amend the Internal Revenue Code to repeal the 3.8% Medicare contribution tax on net investment income.
02.17.2012	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C)-NY issued the following statement: "Based on the president’s own measures, the president’s so-called “stimulus” bill has been a complete and utter failure. The Obama Administration took over at trillion dollars from hardworking taxpayers and promised that this enormous expenditure of borrowed money would “save or create” four million jobs, and keep unemployment below eight percent. As we sit on the 36th consecutive month of unemployment above eight percent, the stimulus is checkered with broken promises, failed projects, millions of Americans still out of work, and has failed on its own terms. "The president incessantly trumpeted the promise of countless “shovel ready” projects to the sell the public on the stimulus. Such projects gave priority to special interest carve outs like Solyndra. As the administration and Congressional Democrats eagerly experimented with taxpayer dollars for countless failed projects and bankruptcies, President Obama continues to sit idly on the Keystone XL Pipeline- a project that is important for our energy security and would create 20,000 direct, private sector jobs. "With 1.1 million jobs lost since the stimulus was enacted, the stimulus spent more than $1 million for every job America lost since it was enacted. After four years of trillion dollar deficits and more that $15 trillion of debt, the president shows no sign of changing his tax and spend policies that simply fail to deliver. We cannot keep spending money we don’t have on jobs we never get. "House Republicans are providing a pathway out of same failed stimulus proposals coming out the White House. We have passed nearly thirty bipartisan jobs bills that are growing cobwebs on Majority Leader Harry Reid’s desk. On this unhappy three year anniversary of the failed stimulus, I urge president to implore action by the Senate Democrat leadership and demand that they not continue to sit on these bipartisan proposals and do nothing. The time for action and leadership is now."
02.17.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the FBI’s arrest of a Moroccan man planning a suicide attack on the U.S. Capitol: “As a former FBI agent, I want to applaud my fellow agents for another outstanding job. This foiled plot to launch an attack on our nation’s capital serves as a reminder to us all that we must remain vigilant. The unfortunate reality is that America and its big cities, like New York and Washington, DC, remain prime targets for those who wish to do us harm. This is why I fully support efforts to keep our military strong and our law enforcement agents well-equipped with the tools they need to protect the American people. “The U.S. Capitol building stands as the ultimate symbol of our freedom and liberty, and as a member of Congress, this terror plot hits close to home. However, we must remember not to hold all Moroccans responsible for the acts of a few radical individuals. As the co-chair of the House Morocco Caucus, I am proud of our close relationship with Morocco and the values they share with the United States. They remain a vital strategic and economic partner and we should not allow the actions of a few extremists to keep us from strengthening our strong, long-standing friendship.” Rep. Grimm served as a Special Agent in the FBI for over a decade and is the co-chair of the House Morocco Caucus.
02.13.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on President Obama’s FY 2013 Budget: “President Obama has once again given us more of the same: record levels of new spending, tax hikes, and debt. He has chosen to ignore real long-term solutions for economic growth in exchange for short-term political gains. In doing so, he has broken his promise to cut the deficit in half by the end of his first term and given us a fourth straight year of $1 trillion-plus deficits. “This budget reiterates this president’s failure to lead. We have a record high debt, unemployment over 8% for 36 consecutive months, and unsustainable entitlement programs that are quickly going bankrupt. We need tough, bold leadership if we are going to create jobs and preserve our safety nets so that they can continue to care for our growing senior population. Unfortunately, the president’s budget fails to deliver. “On our current trajectory, we are not far off from becoming the next Italy or Greece. With this budget, the president has missed an opportunity to change our path and make America a stronger global leader by sending a message that we are serious about reducing our debt and strengthening our economy. “The American people deserve better than a plan that gives us more of the same failed policies clouded with campaign rhetoric. We deserve a strong, sustainable plan that creates jobs, reduces our debt, and secures the care of our nation’s seniors and future generations to come. President Obama had an opportunity to change the course of our nation, and his budget falls short on all accounts.” Federal law stipulates that the budget is to be released no later than the first Monday in February. President Obama released his today, one week after the deadline. ###
02.12.2012	STATEN ISLAND, NY - Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) applauds the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ (CMS) announcement of Medicare residency cap increases, which has awarded Richmond University Medical Center (RUMC) over 30 new residency slots to train more physicians on Staten Island. “As the only borough without a public hospital, Staten Island has been dealt a tough hand when it comes to funding,” said Grimm. “It is not without the bold leadership and tough decision- making at RUMC that this institution has been able to overcome adverse circumstances and continue to deliver Staten Islanders with high quality health care. By redeeming these residency slots lost, the hospital has taken a much-needed step forward in its ability to serve a rapidly growing community. I have worked tirelessly, from day one, to address the issue of a looming physician shortage, and this announcement to reward RUMC with additional residency slots is welcomed news.” “We are pleased that RUMC will be able to continue its commitment to providing graduate medical residencies for those displaced by the closure of Caritas,” stated Richard Murphy, President & CEO of RUMC. “We are appreciative of all the efforts by Congressman Grimm in championing our cause and that of similar institutions. It is vitally important to our community and our patients that RUMC’s role as a teaching hospital be recognized and supported.” RUMC’s award could result in an estimated increase of over $3 million in Graduate Medical Education (GME) funding, and will help offset spending cuts from the state and federal level. The health care law alone cut over $11 billion on Medicare payments to New York hospitals. RUMC is one of only 300 teaching hospitals in the nation that offers a full residency program, offering a full range of specialties. RUMC and the physicians they train provide vital support for highly specialized care to the most medically complex patients, while delivering critical services such as trauma and burn care. In 2008, RUMC lost 24 slots and now it has gained 31. New York teaching hospitals train 1 out of every 7 physicians in America, making these funds not only essential for New York hospitals, but also an indispensable component for ensuring physician access and availability throughout the United States. The U.S. will be faced with a physician shortage of 90,000 physicians by the end of the decade, and currently 22 states have reported physician workforce shortages. With this CMS award of over 30 residency slots, Staten Island will continue the long standing tradition of training our nation’s best and brightest physicians. Rep. Grimm has been a leader in the fight to protect funding for New York’s teaching hospitals and has introduced H.R. 2224, the Improving Physician Access in Teaching Hospitals (PATH) Act. His bill seeks to prevent a doctor shortage by phasing in additional residency slots to participating teaching hospitals, as well as give tax incentives for practicing physicians who provide opportunities for resident rotations in their practices. ###
02.06.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the New York City Natural Gas Supply Enhancement Act (H.R. 2606) introduced by Representatives Michael G. Grimm (R-S.I./Brooklyn), Gregory Meeks (D-Queens), and Robert Turner (R-Brooklyn/Queens) passed the House. The bill authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to allow for the construction and operation of natural gas pipeline facilities in the New York portion of the Gateway National Recreation Area, creating up to 300 local construction jobs, generating revenue, and bringing clean energy to New York City. “This bill is the perfect example of how the government should work,�? said Rep. Grimm. “It allows for the private sector to create local jobs – without any federal spending – while bringing clean, affordable energy to New York City’s residents and businesses. I have been working with Senator Schumer to ensure this bill gains enough support to pass quickly through the Senate and become law.�? “I am pleased to support this bipartisan piece of legislation which will help to create jobs and raise revenue in and around Gateway National Recreation Center,�? said Rep. Meeks. “This bill will provide a new natural gas infrastructure to meet growing energy demands for residents in Queens. These much needed improvements will help support economic development and provide support for restoration of one of Floyd Bennett Field’s historically significant airplane hangars.�? “The New York City Natural Gas Supply Enhancement Act will not only bring a needed source of energy to Brooklyn and the Rockaways, but will also create jobs and serve as a revenue source for the Gateway National Park,�? said Rep. Turner. “This is a great opportunity to be part of a bi-partisan bill that will ensure the people of New York have an economical source of natural gas while restoring one of New York’s national treasures.�? “If H.R. 2606 becomes law, it will ensure that New York City’s future energy needs are met in a way that assures system reliability,�? said NYC Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. “This legislation is not just about the construction and operation of a natural gas pipeline and the jobs that will be created – it is also critical to building a stable, clean-energy future for New York City and improving the health of all New Yorkers. I want to thank all the members of the House that supported the bill and hope to see the same action in the Senate in the near future.�? H.R. 2606 allows for a joint effort between the private sector and all levels of governments, greatly benefitting New York City without any additional federal spending. The project is estimated to generate approximately $265 million in construction activity, almost 300 local construction jobs, and about $8 million in annual local property taxes. It will also help bring additional economical natural gas to New York City and will restore the hangers at Floyd Bennett Field to historical standards at no cost to the government. The current pipeline system serving the Brooklyn and Queens portion of NYC was built 40 to 60 years ago and can no longer meet current demand. H.R. 2606 will allow for a new pipeline to be built off the existing Williams pipeline that currently brings natural gas from New Jersey to Long Island. The new pipeline will pass underneath Jacob Riis Park in the Rockaways portion of Queens and under Jamaica Bay to a new meter and regulator station on Floyd Bennett Field in Brooklyn. The planned route will avoid residential, commercial, and environmentally sensitive areas. This project was included in the PlaNYC2030 report and is supported by the City of New York, the National Parks Service, and the Regional Plan Association. ###
02.06.2012	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-NY) joined colleagues in sending a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius strongly opposing the rule mandating religious-affiliated organizations that offer health insurance to cover contraceptives, sterilizations, abortificacients, even it is a clear violation of their beliefs and conscience rights. “As a Roman Catholic, I strongly believe in preserving the sanctity of human life, and this mandate completely violates that belief. I will not tolerate the Obama Administration’s efforts to challenge the conscience and reproductive rights of the Catholic Church, and will do all I can to ensure that this mandate is overturned. As Americans, we are fortunate to have the right to exercise our religious beliefs free of government intervention, and this case is no exception.” Recently, Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius recently announced that, beginning in 2013, any organization that offers health insurance to its employees will be forced to cover contraceptives, sterilizations and abortifacients regardless of their objections. During the public comment period, HHS received over 200,000 comments on the rule. Many of the comments cited clear objections to this mandate, and yet, no additional conscience protections were provided when the final decision was made. This decision raises concerns about the level of effort involved in the reading and evaluating of the comments submitted. Although there is a “religious exemption,” religious-affiliated organizations, such as schools, hospitals, and charities, do not meet the narrow criteria. In response to Secretary Sebelius’s decision, Cardinal-designate Timothy Dolan, president of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, stated, “Never before has the federal government forced individuals and organizations to go out into the marketplace and buy a product that violates their conscience. This shouldn’t happen in a land where free exercise of religion ranks first in the Bill of Rights.” This mandate violates the conscience rights of any organization or individual that, for moral reasons, opposes abortion due to the mandatory coverage of drugs such as Plan B and Ella. The text of the letter is below: February 6, 2012 Secretary Kathleen Sebelius United States Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20201 Dear Secretary Sebelius: As pro-life Members of Congress, we are writing to voice our strong opposition to your final decision on the rule for mandatory contraceptive, sterilization, and abortifacients coverage in the individual and group health insurance market. This mandate will force religious-affiliated organizations that offer health insurance to cover contraceptives, sterilizations, and abortifacients, even if it is a clear violation of their conscience rights. During the public comment period, HHS received over 200,000 comments on the rule with many citing that the narrow scope of the religious exemption issued on August 1, 2011, would only apply to places of worship. Countless other religious-affiliated organizations, such as schools, hospitals and even religious charities, are not protected under this exemption. Furthermore, although the new decision grants religious-affiliated organizations a one-year extension in order to comply with the mandate, this extension only delays the inevitable violation of conscience. In reference to the extension, Cardinal-designate Timothy Dolan, president of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, stated, "In effect, the President is saying we have a year to figure out how to violate our consciences." HHS’s latest decision to mandate contraceptive, sterilization, and abortifacients coverage is an unprecedented overreach by the federal government that infringes upon rights guaranteed by the First Amendment. This decision also will violate the conscience rights of those who, for moral or religious reasons, oppose abortion. The reason is, as you know, the rule mandates coverage for FDA approved drugs and devices that can function as abortifacients, including certain IUDs and drugs such as Plan B and Ella. As pro-life Members of Congress, we urge you to reconsider the final rule as it applies to any employer or individual that opposes coverage of such services based on moral or religious reasons. In your response to this letter, we request that you provide us specific details on the process followed in the reading and evaluating of the public comments submitted. Additionally, in light of the concerns mentioned, we respectfully request that you suspend the final rule until you can ensure that both employers and individuals are afforded their constitutionally protected conscience rights. Sincerely,
02.02.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) sent a letter to CFTC Chair Gary Gensler questioning a bankruptcy decision made in a meeting that has disadvantaged MF Global customers in recovering missing segregated funds, by giving equal standing to big banks. “This decision raises serious red flags and a lot of questions regarding who was in this meeting, who pulled the trigger, and who’s really going to benefit,” said Grimm. “The questions also include why the CFTC did not freeze all assets and stop all trading in the holding company to prevent it from operating under Chapter 11, which resulted in the vast majority of assets being traded overseas, and thus making them exponentially more difficult to recover. The CFTC and SEC have a lot of explaining to do, and I’m calling on them for answers.” The decision was made in an October 31, 2011 meeting attended by the SEC, CFTC, and allegedly members of the financial industry, including representatives from big banks. The decision was made for MF Global to file under SIPA (Securities Exchange Investment Act), instead of filing under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code and the Commodity Exchange Act. “Given that the overwhelming majority of MF Global’s business is commodities accounts, the bankruptcy should not have been filed under SIPA,” said Grimm. “It should have been filed under the Commodity Exchange Act and Chapter 7, which would give the victims of MF Global priority standing to recover stolen funds and make their accounts whole.” By filing under SIPA, creditors who lent money to MF Global and customers with missing money are put under the same legal framework. However, as commodities customers, they are not covered by SIPA insurance, generally known as SIPC. Had they filed under the Commodities Exchange Act and Chapter 7, the customers would be in a position of priority standing to recover their stolen funds. Rep. Grimm also raised similar questions in today’s House Financial Services Oversight and Investigation Subcommittee hearing on MF Global. ### The text of the letter is attached and below: February 2, 2012 The Honorable Gary Gensler Chairman Commodity Futures Trading Commission Three Lafayette Centre 1155 21st Street, NW Washington, DC 20581 Dear Chairman Gensler, I am writing today in regard to the continuing investigation into the collapse of MF Global. While I understand that since November 5, 2011 you have recused yourself from this investigation, the main questions contained in this letter are related to the events of October 31, 2011, prior to your recusal. There are many questions surrounding the events that lead to the bankruptcy of MF Global being treated as a Chapter 11 bankruptcy under the Securities Investor Protection Act (SIPA) rather than as a Chapter 7 bankruptcy under the Commodity Exchange Act. It is my understanding that approximately 99 percent of MF Global customer accounts were commodities and futures accounts. Therefore I find it difficult to comprehend why this bankruptcy was structured as it was. It is also my understanding that if this bankruptcy was structured as a Chapter 7 bankruptcy that commodities and futures holders of segregated accounts would have received full restitution for their missing funds since the entire firm and its holdings would have been liquidated and the customers of the Futures Commission Merchant would have been in priority position over all other creditors. In a House Financial Services Oversight and Investigations Sub-Committee hearing held today, Michael Stockman, the Global Chief Risk Officer of MF Global Holdings testified that he was aware of a meeting (other reports also indicate there were conference calls) that took place on October 31, 2011 where the course of the MF Global bankruptcy was determined. Mr. Stockman testified that he was not aware of what occurred in the meeting or who was present since he was not in attendance. Based on his acknowledgement of this meetings occurrence, I have several questions: 1. What Commissioners and/or employees of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) were involved directly or indirectly with the meetings and conference calls on October 31, 2011? 2. Was CFTC Commissioner Jill Sommers present at this meeting? If so, does her continued role leading the investigation pose a serious conflict of interest? 3. It is my understanding that Robert Cook, Director of Trading Markets for the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), may have been present at this meeting. Are you or your staff aware of what Commissioners or employees of the SEC were involved in this meeting? 4. In addition, it has been relayed to me that representatives of private sector financial institutions were involved in these discussions as well. If that is the case, which firms were involved and what are the names of the employees who participated? 5. To your knowledge which, if any, Directors, Executives, employees and/or outside counsel to MF Global were involved in these discussions? 6. At this meeting, or at any other meeting, was there a discussion of whether the CFTC should freeze all assets and halt all trading in MF Global Holdings to prevent the firm from operating under Chapter 11? It is my understanding that these continued operations allowed a significant amount of the firm’s assets to be transferred overseas, thus making the task of recovering them exponentially more difficult. I believe we all agree that this is a very serious matter. If this is not resolved quickly, with the clients of MF Global who had funds stolen from their segregated accounts made whole, nothing less than the future viability of the futures market in the United States is at stake. As you stated before a hearing of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations on November 3, 2011 “Segregation must be maintained at all times. Simply put, that’s every moment of every day, down to the nanosecond.” Clearly account segregation is the bedrock of the futures market. A lack of action to protect these victims could lead to various market participants losing faith in this system. Clients of other US firms would begin looking to conduct business overseas or make direct producer to supplier transactions, reducing these companies’ ability to mitigate risk and keep consumer prices stable for a wide variety of goods. I thank you in advance for your cooperation in this matter. Sincerely, ________________________________ Michael G. Grimm Member of Congress
01.31.2012	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, U.S. Representatives Michael G. Grimm (R-S.I./Brooklyn) and Brian Higgins (D-Buffalo) led New York’s Congressional delegation in sending a letter of support for New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s proposed legislation, the Internet System for Tracking Over-Prescribing Act (I-STOP). This state-led initiative would establish a program connecting doctors and pharmacists to a real-time, online database to track the prescribing and dispensing of frequently abused drugs. Prescription drug monitoring programs currently operate in 43 states, and I-STOP will help New York join the ranks with a modernized approach to combating prescription drug abuse. Twenty-four members of New York’s Congressional delegation signed the letter. “Prescription drug abuse in New York State is becoming a growing epidemic, with alarming rates in Staten Island and Brooklyn, particularly among our youth,” said Rep. Grimm. “I have been a leader on this issue at the federal level and fully support this effort to combat ‘pharmacy shopping’ at the state level. Too many lives have been taken by this problem and I encourage New York’s legislators to adopt I-STOP without delay.” “New York has long proven itself to be a leader in medical technologies,” said Rep. Higgins. “The I-STOP program is just what we need to modernize our approach to tackling prescription drug abuse and give doctors and pharmacists the best available tools for reducing this alarming trend.” I-STOP takes the following steps to combat prescription drug abuse in New York: 1) requires the Department of Health to establish and maintain an online, real-time controlled substance reporting system to track the prescription and dispensing of controlled substances; 2) requires practitioners to review a patient's controlled substance prescription history on the system prior to prescribing; 3) requires practitioners or their agents to report a prescription for such controlled substances to the system at the time of issuance; 4) requires pharmacists to review the system to confirm the person presenting such a prescription possesses a legitimate prescription prior to dispensing such substance; and 5) requires pharmacists or their agents to report dispensation of such prescriptions. For a full list of supporters and more information visit the Office of the New York State Attorney General’s website. Rep. Grimm has led this effort at the federal level by sponsoring the Fraudulent Prescription Prevention Act (H.R. 1266), which he introduced with the support of Staten Island District Attorney Dan Donovan. In the fall Rep. Higgins joined Western New York residents Avi and Julie Israel, the parents of Michael David Israel, and other local advocates to bring attention to the urgent need to fight against prescription drug abuse. The attached letter has been signed by Representatives Michael Grimm, Brian Higgins, Gary Ackerman, Timothy Bishop, Yvette Clarke, Joseph Crowley, Eliot Engel, Richard Hanna, Maurice Hinchey, Kathy Hochul, Steve Israel, Peter King, Nita Lowey, Carolyn Maloney, Carolyn McCarthy, Gregory Meeks, Jerrold Nadler, Charles Rangel, Jose Serrano, Louise Slaughter, Paul Tonko, Edolphus Towns, Bob Turner, Nydia Velazquez. ### The text of the letter is below: New York State Assembly New York State Senate Albany, New York 12248 Albany, New York 12247 Members of the New York State Legislature, We are writing to bring your attention to a dangerous and growing crisis affecting families in every corner of this state. In urban, suburban, rural, upstate and downstate New York, prescription drug abuse is an epidemic that is reshaping our definition of addiction, and one that demands the attention of our communities, law enforcement officials, and legislators. Between 2007 and 2010, the rates of admission to treatment programs for prescription drug abuse increased by 45 percent. According to the Office of National Drug Control Policy, prescription drug abuse is the country’s second most prevalent illegal drug problem, and recent reports and studies have documented corresponding data trends in New York State. For example: • Oxycodone prescriptions increased by 66 percent in New York City from 2007 to 2009; • In Buffalo, New York’s largest methadone clinic outside of New York City is reorganizing its service to accommodate an increase in care needed to treat the growing number of addicted mothers and their newborns; • On Long Island, both crisis and non-crisis admissions to drug treatment that involve opiates other than heroin and cocaine have increased at alarming rates. And between 2004 and 2009, the number of deaths due to the toxic effects of prescription opioids more than tripled in Nassau County. Given the magnitude of the problem, we urge you to support Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s proposed state legislation called the "Internet System for Tracking Over-Prescribing Act," or "I-STOP." The legislation would establish a program connecting doctors and pharmacists to a real time, online database to track the prescription and dispensing of frequently abused drugs. Prescription drug monitoring programs currently operate in 43 states, and it is time for New York to modernize its approach to addressing this metastasizing crisis for our families. In addition to providing health care providers and pharmacists with centralized information to avoid overprescribing, I-STOP will result in preventing drug trafficking as well as identifying and treat patients who seek to abuse prescription drugs. This much-needed enhancement of the state’s prescription drug monitoring program will assist in patient care, and also help crack down on ‘doctor shopping,’ the practice of frequenting several different doctors and pharmacies for prescription drugs. With real-time information, physicians and pharmacists will have the necessary tools to track potential abuses, and stop those who enable and profit off of the illegitimate use of prescribed drugs. I-STOP would also require practitioners, pharmacists and law enforcement officials to complete continuing education programs on the proper uses of the substance reporting system. The proposed legislation prohibits the disclosure of all the data collected in the online database, unless authorized by law. The Attorney General’s I-STOP legislation is the solution New York State needs to begin tackling the prescription drug epidemic head on. On behalf of families across the state, we urge you to pass this legislation before another life is lost. Sincerely,
01.25.2012	WASHINGTON, DC –Today, Representative Michael G. Grimm’s (R-NY) Business Risk Mitigation and Price Stabilization Act of 2011 (H.R. 2682) passed the House Committee on Agriculture without opposition. It has already passed the House Committee on Financial Services on November 30, 2011, and will move to the House floor for a vote. Rep. Grimm’s legislation is a bipartisan bill to clarify that true derivatives end-users are exempt from the margin requirements applied by Dodd-Frank to many derivatives contracts. The exemption will allow end-users to continue to use derivatives to maintain low and stable prices for consumers and will free up capital that can be used to create jobs and keep American companies competitive. “American companies are the backbone of our nation, which is why we must keep them strong and help them grow,” said Rep. Grimm. “At a time when reducing our nation’s unemployment rate is a top priority, it is important that we remove the unnecessary barriers to job creation that have been imposed on American businesses. My legislation removes the margin requirements on true end-users in order to free up capital to be used for job creation and to help our companies remain competitive in the global economy. I applaud the House Agriculture Committee for passing this bill with unanimous, bipartisan support and I encourage my colleagues to move it quickly through the House.” True end-users are companies that use derivatives to manage an actual business risk - generally to hedge against fluctuating prices, currency rates, or interest rates - and not to speculate. This bill clarifies that end-users employing derivatives to hedge legitimate business risk are exempt from posting margin, consistent with Congressional intent of Dodd-Frank. Forcing true end-users to post margin can have several negative consequences: 1) the costs of hedging could be become so high that they stop hedging, resulting in a detrimental rise in prices for consumers; 2) capital will be restricted that would otherwise be used for job creation or reinvestment to make American companies more competitive in the global economy; and 3) high costs of hedging could drive business overseas to foreign derivatives markets. According to the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Economic Analysis, every $1 billion in capital spending creates approximately 19,643 jobs. In a study done by Keybridge Research, a 3% margin requirement on OTC derivatives could be expected to reduce capital spending by $5.1 to $6.7 billion per year, leading to a loss of 100,000 to 130,000 jobs. The bill was initially introduced on July 28, 2011 by Rep. Grimm with Reps. Gary Peters (D-MI), Austin Scott (R-GA), and Bill Owens (D-NY) as original cosponsors. ###
01.20.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the three-year anniversary of President Obama’s inauguration: “It has been exactly three years since President Obama has taken office, and our country is worse off as a result of the failed policies and onerous regulations enacted on his watch. President Obama has failed to lead our country in the right direction, and the hard-working residents of Staten Island and Brooklyn have paid the price. “This president promised to cut the deficit in half, but instead it has more than doubled. In fact, for the first time since WWII, our national debt is greater than the size of economy. This president told us that we had to pass the stimulus to keep unemployment below 8%, yet it has been stuck above 8% for nearly three years. Since he took office gas prices have doubled and his government takeover of healthcare, combined with hundreds of new regulations, have burdened our small businesses, keeping them from creating jobs. “To make matters worse, this Tuesday marks 1,000 days since Senate Democrats have passed a budget. It is reprehensible that our federal government has operated this long without a budget. Just as every family or business must create and follow a budget, so must the federal government. I call on Senate Democrats and President Obama to pass and sign into law a sensible budget. It’s time we start acting responsibly and living within our means if we’re going to get our country back on track and get the people of New York back work.” Rep. Grimm Statement on Three-Year Anniversary of President Obama’s Inauguration
01.04.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement after President Obama made an unprecedented recess appointment without Senate consent and without Congress being adjourned: “President Obama’s announcement to make a sham recess appointment for Richard Cordray to head the controversial CFPB shows his complete disregard for the checks and balances established by the U.S. Constitution. Knowing he lacks the support from Senate Republicans to confirm Corday, he has changed the rules in his favor and sets a dangerous precedent that will give him carte blanche to appoint whomever he pleases, whenever he pleases. “This maneuver once again demonstrates his outright refusal to work with the Congress and his complete disrespect for the law of the land. Circumventing well-established procedures certainly goes against the vision laid out by our founding fathers. This appointment is no doubt a product of his arrogance and indicative of his utter disregard for the traditions and values we hold dear as citizens of this great nation.” Rep. Michael Grimm serves on the House Financial Services Committee, which has jurisdiction over the CFPB.
12.20.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s remarks today in support of the Senate’s two-month payroll tax holiday extension: “Today, President Obama took his marching orders from Harry Reid, flip-flopping on his support for a responsible one-year extension of the payroll tax holiday. Just three days ago, the president said in a speech that ‘Congress should not go home for vacation until it finds a way to avoid hitting 160 million Americans with a tax hike on January 1st’ and that it would be ‘inexcusable for Congress not to further extend this middle-class tax cut for the rest of the year.’ Today, President Obama caved to Senate Democrats, stating that the short-term deal ‘is the only viable way to prevent a tax hike on January 1st.’ Which is it Mr. President? “Not one member of the House or Senate believes that a two-month band-aid over a one-year solution is good policy. Unfortunately, this president has once again caved to partisan games and failed to lead this country in the right direction. He has abdicated his responsibilities - failing to lead and failing to act – putting what is best for his own reelection before the best interests the American people. “House Republicans put forth a smart, long-term solution that will help restore confidence and stability for our nation’s job creators and prevent a tax hike on American workers for a full year. If Senate Democrats don’t like it, we invite them to come to the negotiating table to work out the differences. Harry Reid has refused, and our president has followed his lead. “While the Senate has left to begin celebrating the holidays with their families, I remain committed to working until we get the job done. It’s time to end politics as usual. The American people have to keep working, and so should the all the members of the United States Congress until both chambers come together on an agreement that puts the American people before Washington politics.” ###
12.19.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement regarding his opposition to the Senate’s two-month extenders bill and his plans to vote no when it comes to the House floor for a vote this evening: “After passing an irresponsible two-month payroll tax extension, the Senate has already left D.C. and started celebrating the holidays with their families, putting 160 million Americans at risk of getting hit with a tax hike on January 1st. The American people have had enough of Washington’s gimmicks and short-term fixes, which are only adding more uncertainty to our economy and stifling job growth at a time when Americans are eager to get back to work. “House Republicans are willing to stay in Washington as long as it takes to get the job done and pass a long-term solution. Unfortunately, Harry Reid is so used to being a partisan attack dog, that he has long forgotten how to be reasonable. I invite him to join us in doing what’s right for the economy and sit down at the negotiating table in order to work out the differences between the House and Senate bills. “I stand firmly opposed to the Senate’s short-term bill and will continue to fight for a full one-year extension that begins to restore certainty to our markets and prevents a tax-hike on the American people. I did not come to Washington to play politics; I came here to get things done. It’s time the Senate comes back to D.C. and joins us at the table so that we can work together and come up with a real solution that puts the interests of the American people first.” ###
12.16.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-Brooklyn/S.I.) was victorious in passing legislation that will keep the Army Corps of Engineers from leaving Fort Hamilton for Manhattan. Rep. Grimm’s legislative language banning the Corps from using government funds to relocate was passed by the House of Representatives as part of a $1 trillion spending bill intended to keep the government running for another year. The bill is expected to be signed into law this evening by the president. “I meant it when I said ‘The Corps will leave Fort Hamilton over my dead body,’ and today we came through on that promise,” said Rep. Grimm. “It is an enormous victory for the people of Brooklyn and the Fort Hamilton community to solidify in law the Corps’s permanent home at the fort. I want to thank all the active community members and elected officials who stood with me in this fight. Today, we reached an important victory, and it wouldn’t have been possible without their shared passion for preserving Fort Hamilton.” "The Army Corps’ attempt to relocate from Fort Hamilton posed a serious threat to the future of a military installation that is critically important to Brooklyn and all of New York City. I applaud Congressman Grimm’s relentless commitment to securing in law this crucial language stop the Army Corps from making a move that will waste taxpayer money and seriously hamper our efforts to defend Fort Hamilton in the next BRAC. I thank the congressman on behalf of the Fort Hamilton Citizens Action Committee, as well as the entire city, for this important accomplishment,” said Bill Guarinello, President of the Fort Hamilton Citizens Action Committee. The Army Corps of Engineers has been exploring the possibility of moving its NAD headquarters to 201 Varick Street in Manhattan as soon as late 2012 or early 2013, where it will pay roughly $1 million in rent a year. It currently pays no rent at Fort Hamilton; however, it does pay operating expenses which are estimated around $130,000 a year. In addition to the cost, the move could make Fort Hamilton more likely to be selected for closure in the next round of Base Closure and Realignment (BRAC) decisions. On March 17, 2011 Rep. Michael Grimm sent a letter to General Robert L. Van Antwerp, the Chief of Engineers, urging the Army Corps of Engineers to keep its NAD headquarters at Fort Hamilton, citing unnecessary cost to taxpayers as the strongest reason for opposition. Rep. Grimm’s language first passed the House on July 13, 2011 as part of the Energy and Water Appropriations Act (H.R. 2354). Rep. Grimm fought to ensure it remained in the larger spending package passed today. ###
12.16.2011	WASHINGTON—With recent toll hikes, lack of accountability and fiscal mismanagement at the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, U.S. Sen. Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ) and U.S. Rep. Michael Grimm (R-13-NY) today announced the Commuter Protection Act to restore the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (USDOT) ability to determine whether toll hikes are fair to drivers and to give the Department authority to prescribe more reasonable tolls. Lautenberg, who chairs the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Surface Transportation that has jurisdiction over interstate transportation policy issues, said, “When it costs $12 to drive your car across a bridge in America, something is wrong. While the Port Authority and the two states are struggling to explain why these dramatic hikes were imposed, commuters are suffering. There’s a clear need for federal oversight here to make sure toll revenue is being used appropriately and not going to fund excessive salaries or political patronage jobs. Given these out of control toll hikes and the cloud of misinformation surrounding them, these federal protections for commuters need to be restored.” Grimm said, “This bipartisan legislation brings oversight of toll rates on our nation’s federally funded highway system back into the Department of Transportation where it belongs. The Port Authority has reaped the benefit from nearly unchecked control in deciding how much is ‘just and reasonable’ for commuters travelling on the federal highway system to pay. The taxpayers of New York and New Jersey shouldn’t have to face such a harsh economic burden simply to shovel billions of dollars in toll revenue into the debt-stricken and mismanaged PA. With almost no return on transportation infrastructure or mass transit for commuters it is as clear as daylight that there is little to no oversight on how or where the money is spent. I applaud Sen. Lautenberg for joining me in introducing this important legislation.” The Commuter Protection Act would restore USDOT’s ability to determine whether tolls on bridges and tunnels imposed by toll authorities are "just and reasonable." Up until 1987, USDOT had the authority to determine whether any tolls charged to drivers were "just and reasonable" upon a complaint. Under the legislation, if the tolls were deemed unfair, the Secretary could prescribe a more reasonable maximum toll that could be charged. The bill would also require Government Accountability Office (GAO) to report on and make recommendations for increasing the transparency and accountability of tolling authority budget practices. On August 19th the Port Authority approved an increase in toll hikes that will raise tolls for cars between New Jersey and New York from $8.00 to $15.00 by 2015. For cars with E-Z Pass, the toll will be raised from $8 to $12.50 over the same period of time. 5-axle trucks that currently pay $40 dollars will have to pay up to $125 by 2015. The legislation has already drawn support from AAA New York, and AAA Clubs of New Jersey, the American Trucking Association, the American Highway Users Alliance, the American Motorcyclist Association and the Owner-Operator Independent Drivers Association ###
12.15.2011	Rep. Michael Grimm Rips into Jon Corzine over MF GlobalRelies on FBI-style interrogation techniques to question witness on what caused his company’s collapse WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) today questioned Jon Corzine on the MF Global scandal in a House Financial Services Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee hearing, proving that he has not lost his touch when it comes to interrogating a witness. The former FBI Agent, who served deep undercover on Wall Street investigating financial fraud and money laundering, grilled Jon Corzine on MF Global’s missing client funds, leverage ratios, and what the CEO really knew in the final days leading up to the collapse. Watch Rep. Grimm Question Jon Corzine in the Subcommittee Hearing: Watch the post-hearing interview: Fox Business reporter Charlie Gasparino notes Rep. Grimm made “the single most honest statement coming from either a congressman or a witness” when the congressman tells Jon Corzine “I don’t believe that answer.”
12.15.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-NY) became a cosponsor of the United States Call Center Worker and Consumer Protection Act (HR 3596), a bill to publicly list all employers that relocate a call center overseas, make such companies ineligible for federal grants or guaranteed loans, and require disclosure of the physical location of customer service call centers. “In today’s tough economy, it is important that we do all we can to preserve American jobs and prevent them from moving overseas,” said Grimm. “This bill ensures that companies receiving taxpayer-funded federal aid or tax incentives don’t use those incentives to move their call centers abroad. I stand behind this legislation that not only protects American jobs but ensures that the people of Staten Island and Brooklyn have the opportunity to speak to someone based in the United States when calling for customer service assistance.” With the decimation of manufacturing in the United States, many communities have focused on creating customer service/call center jobs in their communities through the offering of tax incentives, grants and loans; however, the last decade has seen a number of those jobs now being shipped overseas. Oftentimes, calls into service centers go to countries where workers are exploited and/or human resource practices are far inferior to those in the United States. In addition, these are often linked to security problems, putting American consumers at risk for identity theft, fraudulent transactions, and general mishandling of sensitive information. This bill, if passed, would accomplish the following things: • Create a ‘bad actor’ list of U.S. Companies that make a practice of sending U.S. jobs overseas: It would require a publically available list, kept by the Department of Labor, of all employers that relocated entirely or a significant portion of their call center or customer service work overseas. These companies would be ineligible for Federal grants or guaranteed loans. Preference will be given to US employers that do not appear on the list for awarding civilian or defense-related contracts. Employers that relocate a call center will remain on the list for up to 3 years after each instance of relocating a call center. • Disclose Call Center Location to U.S. Consumers: It would require the relocated overseas call center agent to disclose their name and physical location of their operation. • Right to Transfer: The U.S. consumer would have the right to request the call to be transferred to a customer service agent who is physically located in the United States. This bipartisan bill to prevent American jobs from going overseas was introduced by Rep. Tim Bishop (D-NY). Rep. Grimm is an original cosponsor. The bill is endorsed by the Communications Workers Association.
12.13.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) voted for the bipartisan Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act (H.R. 3630), an important bill that creates jobs and extends a number of provisions scheduled to expire at the end of the year, including a fully paid-for extension of the 2% payroll tax holiday and a reformed unemployment insurance program, along with a two-year freeze on cuts to doctors under Medicare in order to ensure that our nation’s seniors continue to have access to the care they need. The bill passed the House with bipartisan support. “This common-sense bill extends current benefits set to expire, such as the payroll tax holiday and unemployment insurance, without raising taxes or bankrupting Social Security and Medicare to pay for it,” said. Rep. Grimm. “It is a sensible solution that encompasses a culmination of bipartisan ideas that provide short-term tax relief without a long-term tax-hike. While this is not a perfect bill, it achieves an important objective of preserving benefits to New York’s families and seniors struggling in this tough economic climate.” Jobs remain a top priority and this legislation contains several provisions that directly support the creation of private sector jobs. One provision modifies the EPA’s job-killing Boiler MACT regulations, which have put job-killing and unreasonable regulations on companies. Another requires approval of the Keystone XL pipeline within 60 days. “I fully support the pro-jobs measures in this bill, including the Keystone pipeline which is estimated to create 20,000 jobs immediately and 100,000 indirectly,” said Rep. Grimm. “It is unfortunate that President Obama has caved to the left-wing of his party by threatening to veto any legislation that contains this job-creating project. I urge President Obama and the Senate Democrats not to pander to the extremes of their own party and put the American people first by swiftly passing this important jobs bill.” The legislation also includes an important provision to help our nation’s first responders by establishing an interoperable public safety network and reserving the “D block” of the spectrum for emergency communications. Rep. Grimm has strongly supported this policy as an original cosponsor of the Broadband for First Responders Act (H.R. 607). The cost of the bill is completely offset by spending cuts. The bill is expected to save up to $1 billion.
12.07.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the passage of the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act, H.R. 10, which would require Congressional approval of all major regulations costing our economy $100 million or more: “My vote for the REINS Act represents one of the very reasons I came to Congress: to fight for the return to small government. Our country has become over-burdened with Washington bureaucrats and ‘big-government’ regulations that have killed any opportunity for our economy and businesses to grow. In fact, these job-killing regulations have cost America’s employers roughly $1.75 trillion annually, and that’s unacceptable. “Our president has misled the American people with his claims to support the reduction of these onerous regulations. The reality is that President Obama’s administration has proposed more than 200 new regulations this year alone, each of which cost our economy $100 million or more. The REINS Act targets these very rules, making them subject to Congressional approval before they can be implemented. “I have listened to the people of Staten Island and Brooklyn who constantly tell me that their top priority is jobs. More government does not create jobs, but by rolling back these onerous regulations, we can create a friendly environment for jobs. I urge the Senate to act without delay on the REINS Act and on the 25 other House-passed jobs bills that it has yet to consider. The American people want to get back to work, and we can best help them do that by reining in these job-killing regulations that have kept Americans businesses from remaining competitive and creating much needed new jobs.” ###
12.03.2011	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the PANYNJ’s toll hikes: “There is a long list of elected officials on the federal, state and local levels who have joined with me in the fight against PANYNJ’s outrageous toll hikes. While we have fought with every tool at our disposal, the reality is that the one official who has not joined with us is the only one who actually had the authority to stop the toll increases with a simple ‘no.’ Unfortunately, while we were fighting for Staten Island, Governor Cuomo sold us out and allowed the hikes to go through. “Mayor Bloomberg has been quiet throughout this debate, and now we need his support. NYC spent $700 million on a waste removal program to remove the city’s trash via the container terminal on Staten Island. If this port goes out of business – a fate that’s almost certain with the toll hikes in place - that’s a significant loss of NYC taxpayer dollars, not to mention the loss of hundreds of high-paying jobs. At a time when the state and city budgets are dying for a boost, shouldn’t we be fighting to keep businesses and tax revenue here instead of sending them out of state? I invite Mayor Bloomberg to join me in the fight to reverse the toll hikes and protect the jobs and tax revenue generated for NYC by the business at the port. “There is one clear winner in this fight, and that’s New Jersey. As the PANYNJ moves forward with plans to raise the Bayonne Bridge –without a light rail – to allow for bigger ships and more trade to our ports, the toll hikes are a surefire guarantee that Staten Island and New York City won’t be seeing any of this new business. New Jersey will, and it simply makes sense. Why would a company spend hundreds of dollars in tolls to transport goods from the port across the bridge when New Jersey is free? “‘Tis the season for giving, and New York just gave New Jersey the gift that keeps on giving. Why our very own Governor Cuomo seems to be fighting harder for New Jersey than Staten Island and New York, is a question that I ask daily and one that he has yet to answer. In the meantime, I have a message for the people of New Jersey: When you write your thank you notes for this holiday gift of more jobs and tax revenue, don’t forget to thank the people of Staten Island. After all, we’re the ones who paid for it.” ###
12.01.2011	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) and Assemblywoman Nicole Malliotakis (R,C-East Shore/Bay Ridge) issued the following joint statement on the PANYNJ’s claims that toll increases will not be used to fund the over-budgeted WTC development: “The Port Authority's current position that the toll increases will not be used to finance redevelopment of the World Trade Center is patently false. In its own press release, dated August 5, 2011, the Port Authority cited the World Trade Center project three times as justification for the proposed increases. As joint filers of a brief in support of AAA's lawsuit against the Port Authority, we perceive this as a clear attempt to dodge our argument that the Port Authority cannot increase tolls in order to fund non-essential activities. The fact that this claim was made shortly before court hearing on the Order to Show Cause is unsurprising, but unacceptable. The Port Authority needs to provide clear evidence that motorists on Port Authority bridges and tunnels are not being forced to cover their numerous and expensive real estate ventures.” In October, Congressman Grimm and Assemblywoman Malliotakis filed an amicus brief in support of the motion for a preliminary injunction submitted by the American Automobile Association (AAA) against the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey’s (PANYNJ) recent decision to increase the tolls on the Outerbridge Crossing, Goethels Bridge, and Bayonne Bridge. ###
11.30.2011	WASHINGTON, DC –Today, Representative Michael G. Grimm’s (R-NY) Business Risk Mitigation and Price Stabilization Act of 2011 (H.R. 2682) passed the House Committee on Financial Services without opposition. Rep. Grimm’s legislation is a bipartisan bill to clarify that true derivatives end-users are exempt from the margin requirements applied by Dodd-Frank to many derivatives contracts. The exemption will allow end-users to continue to use derivatives to maintain low and stable prices for consumers and will free up capital that can be used to create jobs and keep American companies competitive. “American companies are the backbone of our nation, which is why we must keep them strong and help them grow,” said Rep. Grimm. “At a time when unemployment is at 9%, we must do all we can to remove the barriers to job creation, rather than put more up. My legislation removes the margin requirements on true end-users in order to free up capital to be used for job creation and to help our companies remain competitive in the global economy. I am thrilled that it has passed the Financial Services Committee and I encourage my colleagues to move it quickly through the House.” True end-users are companies that use derivatives to manage an actual business risk - generally to hedge against fluctuating prices, currency rates, or interest rates - and not to speculate. This bill clarifies that end-users employing derivatives to hedge legitimate business risk are exempt from posting margin, consistent with Congressional intent of Dodd-Frank. Forcing true end-users to post margin can have several negative consequences: 1) the costs of hedging could be become so high that they stop hedging, resulting in a detrimental rise in prices for consumers; 2) capital will be restricted that would otherwise be used for job creation or reinvestment to make American companies more competitive in the global economy; and 3) high costs of hedging could drive business overseas to foreign derivatives markets. According to the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Economic Analysis, every $1 billion in capital spending creates approximately 19,643 jobs. In a study done by Keybridge Research, a 3% margin requirement on OTC derivatives could be expected to reduce capital spending by $5.1 to $6.7 billion per year, leading to a loss of 100,000 to 130,000 jobs. The bill was initially introduced on July 28, 2011 by Rep. Grimm with Reps. Gary Peters (D-MI), Austin Scott (R-GA), and Bill Owens (D-NY) as original cosponsors. It has been sent to the House Committee on Agriculture, which it must also pass before being sent to the House floor for a vote. ###
11.29.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Representatives Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) and Pedro R. Pierluisi (D-PR) introduced the Multinational Species Conservation Funds Semipostal Stamp Reauthorization Act (H.R.3510) to extend the availability of the Save Vanishing Species stamp for an additional four years. The stamp provides an opportunity for the public to voluntarily contribute to conservation efforts by purchasing the stamp. The U.S. Postal Service then gives the proceeds from stamp sales to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to fund projects for endangered keystone wildlife species including African and Asian elephants, rhinoceros, tigers, great apes and marine sea turtles. “This cost-free and simple reauthorization allows millions of Americans to continue to have the choice to support an important cause every time they purchase this stamp,” said Rep. Grimm. “I am proud to introduce this legislation with Rep. Pierluisi to support wildlife conservation efforts while also helping our cash-strapped postal service save jobs and promoting tourism to New York’s zoos and wildlife centers.” “Keeping the highly popular Save Vanishing Species semipostal stamp for sale at post offices across our nation for four more years responds to public demand and makes sound business sense,” said Rep. Pierluisi. “The impressive number of sales to date speaks to the stamp’s value and to the public’s awareness of the need to protect the world’s most endangered wildlife species. With this stamp, the United States will continue to assert leadership in worldwide conservation efforts. I am pleased to partner with Congressman Grimm to help lead this bipartisan effort.” “The wildlife stamp is a tremendous opportunity to help save wildlife around the world in a financially responsible way,” said John Calvelli, Executive Vice President of Public Affairs of the Wildlife Conservation Society, a global conservation organization that works in more than 60 countries and manages four zoos and one aquarium in New York City including the Bronx Zoo and New York Aquarium. “With the success of the stamp in just one month, the American public is making a statement that international wildlife conservation is important to them, so we must continue this momentum by extending the stamp for another four years. I thank Rep. Michael Grimm and Rep. Pedro Pierluisi for their leadership in this effort.” “Extending the availability of the Species Conservation stamp is a simple and cost-effective way for Americans to support wildlife conservation,” said Ken Mitchell, Executive Director of the Staten Island Zoo. “The funds raised will help protect endangered species in the wild and support breeding programs and public education in our zoos and aquariums. This initiative has the Staten Island Zoo’s enthusiastic ‘stamp’ of approval, and we thank Congressman Michael Grimm and his colleagues in Congress for their leadership and strong voice on behalf of wildlife conservation.” This stamp has been highly successful, with 4 million stamps sold in the first 41 days of issuance, and it is currently available at over 35,000 post offices around the country. This legislation costs zero tax dollars, while diverting desperately needed funding to some of the most highly endangered species throughout the world. The stamp also benefits our postal service by creating new revenue for the USPS that can be used to create and save postal jobs in our local communities. Every Multinational Species Conservation Funds Semi-Postal Stamp that is collected and/or not used equals a 100% profit for USPS that would not be there without this stamp. Finally, the stamp promotes visitation to zoos and aquariums throughout the United States such as the Staten Island Zoo, the Bronx Zoo and the New York Aquarium resulting in increased tourism revenue to our local communities. Legislation to create the stamp was introduced in the previous Congress and signed into law on September 30, 2010, mandating the stamp be available for two years. Rep. Grimm’s legislation extends the stamp for an additional four years. The Grimm-Pierluisi bill was introduced with the bipartisan support of 30 original cosponsors and has been endorsed by over 25 organizations.
11.23.2011	NEW YORK, NY – Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C – S.I.) is encouraging constituents to participate in Small Business Saturday, which is this Saturday, November 26th. Small Business Saturday is a national movement encouraging consumers to shop locally and support the small businesses in their communities. It is also intended to increase awareness of locally-owned businesses and their impact on the economy. “This Small Business Saturday is a day to patronize Staten Island and Brooklyn’s small businesses on one of the busiest shopping weekends of the year,” said Rep. Grimm. “As a former small business owner, I know the important role our shops and restaurants play in serving the community and the struggles they face in a tough economy. We can make a difference by lending our support and patronage. This weekend, I encourage everyone to ‘shop small’ and support the small businesses in our community.” For more information about Small Business Saturday, please visit http://smallbusinesssaturday.com/. ### Facts about America’s Small Businesses General Facts: • 99.7% of all businesses having employees are small businesses • 50% of workers in the private sector are employed by small businesses • 44% of the total payroll of the employees in the private sector is paid by small businesses. Small Businesses are America’s Job Creators: • 65% of net new jobs created during the last 17 years were generated by small businesses • 60-80% of all new jobs generated annually come from small businesses Small Businesses Support the Community and the Community Supports Small Businesses: • $68 out of every $100 spent in locally owned, independent stores returns to the community through payroll, local taxes and other expenditures • 92 % of consumers in the U.S. agree that the success of small businesses is critical to the overall economic health of the United States • 91 % of consumers in the U.S. have small businesses in their community that the consumers would miss if the small businesses closed • 99% percent of consumers in the U.S. agree that it is important to support the small businesses in their community
11.20.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement: “Today’s arrest of Jose Pimentel for a bomb plot targeting NYC officials, police, and returning military personnel is no doubt the result of the diligent and exceptional work of the NYPD. We are fortunate to have the best and brightest police force in the nation that takes all necessary measures to keep us safe. This arrest is an unfortunate reminder that we can never underestimate the influence of al-Qaeda or the presence of those who wish to do us harm, but as New Yorkers must always remain vigilant and be proactive. I applaud the efforts of Commissioner Kelly, the NYPD, and Mayor Bloomberg for taking the necessary actions to foil this plot and safeguard us from a potentially disastrous or deadly incident.” Rep. Grimm is a former undercover FBI agent and served as a first responder on 9/11. ###
11.17.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the two-month anniversary of Occupy Wall Street: “These people have overstayed their welcome and it’s time they get the heck out of New York City. Between the filth, the smell, the incessant noise, and threat to public safety, they have done nothing but cause a nuisance to the people who work and live in Lower Manhattan. They’ve cost the city and surrounding businesses millions of dollars, and it’s time these people find a more productive use of their time. New Yorkers have had ENOUGH! “The people I represent are the hard-working ‘99%’ who simply want to go to work, do their jobs, and get home to their families without being hassled along the way. They already face one of the longest commutes in the nation without having to deal with this mob. It is reprehensible for these lowlifes to overrun the Staten Island Ferry or the subways to Brooklyn and add further hours to the trip home. “I applaud the efforts of Mayor Bloomberg, and the NYPD under Commissioner Kelly’s leadership, in cleaning up Zuccotti Park and managing a potentially violent and destructive situation. They have done a tremendous job! However, it has been two months and now it’s time for the OWS protesters to pack up their tents, buy a bar of soap, and head home.” ###
11.16.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement: “Today, our debt hit $15 trillion. This should be the red flag to all of us that failure is simply not an option. The Super Committee must ‘go big’ and take bold actions to reduce our debt. Failure to do so comes at a high cost, and the threat of another downgrade with grave consequences is very real. “When the sky didn't crash after the first S&P downgrade, it has been easy for some of my colleagues believe we can absorb another downgrade. The reality is: We cannot. I warn my fellow lawmakers not to hide behind the fact that the credibility of the ratings agencies has been called into question. We cannot assume the ratings agencies are ‘just crying wolf.’ “Another downgrade would be detrimental to our economy and job creation throughout the United States. Just as we saw in Europe, the bond market can turn on a dime and borrowing rates can escalate rapidly if the market’s attitude towards our debt were to change as quickly as it did for Greece and Italy. “It’s time for us to stop ignoring reality about the gravity of our debt. We must take the necessary actions to reach a deal by next week that gets our debt under control, sets our economy on the right track, and creates a more stable environment for the creation of jobs. With our nation’s future at stake, success is the only acceptable outcome.” ###
11.14.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm’s (R,C-NY) bill, H.R. 2422, to name the post office at 45 Bay Street on Staten Island the “Sergeant Angel Mendez Post Office” passed the House. Sgt. Mendez was serving as a U.S. Marine in the Vietnam War when he was killed in combat while saving the life of his Platoon Commander, Lieutenant Ronald D. Castille. The post office to honor the fallen Marine is appropriately located next to an Armed Forces recruiting center. “I am thrilled that the House has passed this legislation to honor Sgt. Angel Mendez - a true and selfless hero who gave his life to save another,” said Rep. Grimm. “‘The Sergeant Angel Mendez Post Office’ will memorialize his heroism and serve as constant reminder of the ultimate sacrifice that he and all our nation’s heroes have made for our country and for others. It should be noted that this building, located in the St. George neighborhood, also houses an armed forces recruiting center – where our future military heroes can reflect on Sgt. Mendez’s service to our nation. As a fellow Marine, I am honored to lead this effort to ensure that Sgt. Mendez’s legacy will live on in Staten Island, and I urge my Senate colleagues to pass it quickly so that it may be signed into law.” Angel Mendez was born to Puerto Rican-American parents, but was raised in the Mission of the Immaculate Virgin, an orphanage located in Mount Loretto in Staten Island. After graduating high school in 1964 Angel volunteered to join the Marine Corps during the Vietnam War, and was assigned to Company F, 2nd Battalion, 7th Marines, 1st Marine Division as a Corporal. During a search and destroy mission on March 16, 1967, Mendez and his company were engaged in an intense firefight with the Viet Cong. With half of his platoon trapped under enemy fire and Platoon Commander, Lieutenant Ronald D. Castille seriously wounded and unable to move to safety, Mendez volunteered to lead a squad to help his fellow Marines. Mendez shielded Lt. Castille with his own body as he dressed the wound and attempted to carry the Platoon Commander to safety when he was shot in the shoulder. Mendez was shielding Castille and the other Marines with his own body when he was shot again and mortally wounded. Lt. Castille survived the attack and became district attorney of Philadelphia and later chief justice of the Pennsylvania Supreme Court. Mendez was posthumously promoted to Sergeant and awarded the Navy Cross. Rep. Grimm has been involved in an ongoing effort to posthumously reward Mendez’s heroism with the Medal of Honor - a request that has been denied by the Navy. The bill was cosponsored by every House member of the New York congressional delegation. Rep. Grimm is working closely with New York’s two senators to swiftly pass this bill through the Senate, so that it may be signed into law as quickly as possible. ###
11.14.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement: “Today’s announcement by the U.S. Supreme Court to rule on the individual mandate in the healthcare law brings us one step closer to overturning Obamacare once and for all. I believe that requiring all Americans to buy government-approved health insurance violates the U.S. Constitution. All Americans deserve the freedom of choice when selecting a health care plan that’s best for them and their families, and they should not be forced by the federal government to purchase a plan they do not want. “Since I was sworn into Congress, House Republicans have worked to fulfill our pledge to repeal the government takeover of America’s health care system. Obamacare has shown to be a great challenge to businesses, large and small, and the Supreme Court’s announcement will offer our job creators some much needed clarity. This law is inundated with massive spending, taxes, and government driven mandates that ultimately threaten our economic recovery and access to high quality and affordable care. As the Supreme Court reviews this case, my colleagues and I will continue our strong effort to find solutions that will not only promote patient-centered healthcare, but will also avoid the costly damage that will be done to our health care system and our economy by this administration’s policies.�? ###
11.08.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s remarks overheard at the G20 summit criticizing Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu: “I find President Obama’s criticism of Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu highly offensive and call on him to issue a formal apology on behalf of the American people. Whether the microphones are on or off, the message to our allies in Israel should always remain the same: ‘We stand with you.’ “As an American, I understand the importance of the U.S.-Israel relationship to our own national security as well as to the peace and security of the Middle East. As a member of Congress, I will do all I can to ensure our alliance remains strong. “President Obama’s comments are disgraceful and inappropriate coming from someone who holds the highest office in the United States. They provide a poor and inaccurate reflection of the American people he was elected to represent, and they must be rescinded.” Rep. Michael Grimm is a co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus. ###
11.04.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement in response to the October Jobs Report. The economy created 80,000 jobs in October and the unemployment rate is 9%. “Today’s jobs numbers are a dismal reminder that we cannot waste another minute in the fight to create jobs. While President Obama has spent the last month “campaigning” on the taxpayer dime for a jobs bill that has no chance of passing, the Senate has failed to take action on any of the 20 jobs bills passed by the House. “Instead, this Democratic-led Senate repeatedly brings up bills with bipartisan opposition- knowing they’ll fail- instead of those with bipartisan support. This is yet another attempt to place blame on Republicans, but the American people aren’t falling for another one of Harry Reid’s tricks. They have had enough! “I have listened to my constituents in Staten Island and Brooklyn and agree that we must work together if we’re going to revive our economy and get people back to work. It’s time to put people before politics and start moving on areas in which we’ve reached common ground. It’s time for the Senate Democrats to stop their political posturing and start producing results. Any further inaction on their part would be shameful.” ###
11.03.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement in response to the MF Global scandal: “I fully support the FBI for launching an investigation on the collapse of MF Global. As a former FBI agent tasked with combating financial fraud, I am certain they will uncover any criminal activity responsible for the downfall, if a crime was in fact committed. “I’d like to caution my Democratic colleagues who may seek to use MF Global as an excuse to expand Dodd-Frank and impose further job-killing restrictions on the financial sector. Fraud is fraud, and stealing is stealing - whether someone’s stealing a car or money from a customer fund. If MF Global did actually steal or illegally comingle funds, they committed a criminal act that all the regulations in the world wouldn’t have stopped. “I believe that high leverage ratios and a lack of enforcement contributed to the MF Global scandal, and are ironically two of three factors at the very root of the 2008 financial meltdown – the third being the involvement of Fannie and Freddie. Because not one of these three issues has been substantially addressed by Dodd-Frank, any calls to expand the law in reaction to MF Global would be baseless.” For over a decade, Michael Grimm served in the FBI as an undercover agent fighting financial fraud and white collar crime. He is currently a member of the House Financial Services Committee. ###
10.31.2011	BROOKLYN, NY - Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement regarding the passing of State Supreme Court Justice Christopher Mega: “I am saddened to hear of the passing of State Supreme Court Justice Christopher Mega, whose distinguished career is marked with decades of public service in the state legislature, representing Brooklyn and the Eastern Shore of Staten Island, and as Chief Judge of the New York State Court of Claims. A Brooklyn native, he never abandoned his local roots and remained engaged in the community throughout his life. His dedication and commitment to our community remains evident to all and his accomplishments shall never be forgotten. Our thoughts and prayers go out to Justice Mega's wife, Madelyn, children, and grandchildren.” ###
10.31.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement in response to Operation Fast & Furious – an ATF-led gun-trafficking surveillance operation that brought roughly 1,500 guns into Mexico and led to the murder of a U.S. Border Patrol Agent: “As a former federal law enforcement agent, I take the rule of law very seriously, especially when it concerns the death of a federal agent. The mishandling of Operation Fast and Furious has not only put weapons - trafficked in from the U.S. - into the hands of Mexican drug cartels, but has cost a Border Patrol Agent his life. I find it unbelievable that Attorney General Eric Holder was unaware of the details of the operation, and even more incomprehensible that the straw purchases continued on his watch without notifying our counterparts in U.S. embassy in Mexico of the details. “Attorney General Holder has a repeated pattern of misleading members of Congress under oath, and Fast and Furious appears to be no exception. In this case, his claims don’t add up. As a consequence, I believe he has lost all credibility with Congress and the American people, which is why I am calling for his resignation.�? ###
10.27.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-S.I./ Brooklyn) issued the following statement regarding claims that an ACORN-linked group, NYCC, has paid protesters to attend Occupy Wall Street and has dishonestly raised funds for the movement by claiming donations would be used for PCB testing in schools: “It is no surprise to hear that ACORN is linked to the Occupy Wall Street movement. While everyone has the right to gather and express their views, I find it unbelievable that this group feels the need to pay people to participate and cause further disruption to the hard-working New Yorkers who live and work in downtown Manhattan. Attendance by the ACORN-backed protestors is clearly money-driven, adding to the hypocrisy of this movement, which seems to include capitalism on the list of things being protested. “Furthermore, I am disgusted by the group’s fundraising methods. Going door-to-door claiming to collect funds for PCB testing, and then using the money to pay protesters up to $100 a day is dishonest and deceitful. As someone who has taken a strong stance urging the city to remove the dangerous PCB from NYC's public schools in order to protect the safety of our children, I find this reprehensible. On the heels of their other well-publicized shenanigans, it is clear they have no shame!” ###
10.26.2011	BROOKLYN, NY - Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement regarding the arrest of several NYPD officers accused of smuggling guns, cigarettes, and slot machines into New York: “The 68th Precinct does a remarkable job keeping our community safe. The reprehensible criminal acts allegedly committed by a few individuals are an anomaly and do not reflect the high level of performance and dedication that defines the men and women of the 68th Precinct and the NYPD. We should never let a few bad apples overshadow the brave and exceptional work of these officers. Deputy Inspector Rodriguez is one of the hardest working commanding officers I have ever met, and his successor Captain DiBlasio is doing a tremendous job of continuing the 68’s strong tradition of excellence and community service. I am proud to have these officers serving southwest Brooklyn and I applaud them for their commitment to our community.” ###
10.18.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the release of Israeli Staff Sgt. Gilad Shalit who had been kidnapped by Hamas over five years ago: “I applaud Israeli President Netanyahu for his leadership in reaching an agreement to secure the safe return of Staff Sgt. Gilad Shalit. It has been over five years since Shalit was kidnapped by Hamas and today he has finally been reunited with his family and country. While his release does not make up for years of injustice, his return is certainly a cause for celebration.” Rep. Grimm is a cosponsor of Rep. Gary Ackerman’s (D-NY) resolution (H.Res.317), demanding that Hamas immediately and unconditionally release Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit. Grimm is also a co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus and the Chairman of the Republican Policy Committee’s Task Force on Foreign Policy. ###
10.14.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-NY) announces to seniors in his district that the Medicare Open Enrollment Period for Medicare Advantage and prescription drug coverage begins earlier this year on Saturday, October 15th, and will end on December 7th. Rep. Grimm encourages seniors and their families to begin reviewing drug and health plan coverage options for 2012 as soon as possible. “I encourage all seniors, family members, and caregivers to carefully review the options available to find the plan that best fits their needs,” said Rep. Grimm. “Medicare can be difficult to navigate, which is why my staff is here to help answer questions and direct seniors to available resources.” Helpful Resources: · Visit www.medicare.gov for a personalized comparison of costs and coverage of the plans available in New York City. · Call 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227) for around-the-clock assistance to find out more about coverage options. TTY users should call 1-877-486-2048. · Review the 2012 Medicare & You handbook. It is also accessible at online at: http://www.medicare.gov/publications/pubs/pdf/10050.pdf -- and it has been mailed to the homes of people with Medicare. · Get one-on-one counseling assistance from the local State Health Insurance Assistance Program (SHIP). Local SHIP contact information can be found at: http://www.medicare.gov/contacts/organization-search-criteria.aspx; on the back of the 2011 Medicare & You handbook; or by calling 1-800-MEDICARE. People with Medicare who have limited incomes and resources may qualify for Extra Help paying for their prescription drug costs. There is no cost to apply for Extra Help. Medicare beneficiaries, family members, trusted counselors or caregivers can apply online at: www.socialsecurity.gov/prescriptionhelp or by calling Social Security at 1-800-772-1213. Additional information on enrollment of Medicare Advantage plans with high star ratings is available at: http://www.cms.gov/PrescriptionDrugCovGenIn/06_PerformanceData.asp. Contact Rep. Grimm’s Office: Staten Island: 265 New Dorp Lane; 718-351-1062 Brooklyn: 7308 13th Avenue, 718-630-5277
10.12.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Representative Michael Grimm (R,C-NY) voted in favor of the three pending free trade agreements (FTAs) with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea- all of which passed the House. These trade agreements are important for American job creation and to level the playing field between the U.S. and its competitors. The three pending agreements are expected to create 250,000 jobs. They are also estimated to increase U.S. exports by $13 billion and add $10 billion to GDP. “It’s not enough to buy American; we have to sell American,” said Grimm. “These agreements level the playing field for American businesses, which have been left behind as our international competitors have been gaining. Removing these trade barriers will allow Staten Island and Brooklyn’s businesses to grow and create jobs. While I understand some may have concerns with the nations with which we are trading – specifically Colombia, I believe that the overall impact on our economy is crucial to creating jobs and turning our country around. I am hopeful that this agreement will provide an opportunity to incentivize Colombia to strengthen its protections for workers and policies on human rights.” According the U.S. Chamber of Congress, New York’s 13th Congressional District exported $2.7 billion in merchandise in 2010, which directly supported over 9,500 jobs in Staten Island and Brooklyn. Once enacted the three FTAs will remove the tariffs burdening companies, helping our local businesses expand and create more jobs. The FTAs have been negotiated years ago, but have been sitting on President Obama’s desk. From day one, House Republicans have been calling for the president to send them to Congress for consideration, and have incorporated their passage into the GOP plan for job creation. Grimm also voted for an additional bill today to extend Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA), which was a condition of the bills being sent to Congress for consideration. The TAA program provides assistance to workers who may have become unemployed due to the impact of international trade. ###
10.11.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Representative Michael G. Grimm’s (R,C-NY) Veterans Dog Training Therapy Act (H.R. 198) unanimously passed the House. It was one of six bills combined into a larger veteran’s health care bill (H.R. 2074). Grimm’s bill establishes a program that allows veterans to address post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) through therapeutic dog training and handling. The trained service dogs are then given to physically disabled veterans to help them with their daily activities. This is the first bill Rep. Grimm introduced as a member of Congress and his first bill to pass the House. “This type of program that allows veterans to help veterans could have a tremendous impact in New York,” said Grimm. “Ideally, I’d like to see this type of program established at the Brooklyn VA Hospital, which currently provides care for many of the veterans in my district. As a veteran, and an American, I am thrilled that this legislation has passed the House, and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to pass it without delay, so that it can be signed into law and allow us to begin providing assistance to our returning veterans.” Grimm’s legislation establishes a pilot program in VA medical centers for educating veterans with mental health conditions in the art and science of assistance dog training and handling. It also calls for an assessment of the benefits of addressing the symptoms of PTSD through a therapeutic medium of dog training, and it encourages the use of shelter dogs, when appropriate. The program’s combined approach creates an opportunity to save money by offering an alternative treatment to PTSD while at the same time benefitting physically disabled veterans in need of assistance. In addition, with veteran suicide rates so high and more servicemen and women developing PTSD, this bill meets a crucial need for additional treatment methods. Congressman Michael Grimm is a Marine combat veteran of Operation Desert Storm. ###
10.04.2011	STATEN ISLAND, NY - Today, Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-Staten Island/Brooklyn) and Assemblywoman Nicole Malliotakis (R,C-Staten Island/Brooklyn) filed an amicus brief in support of the motion for a preliminary injunction submitted by the American Automobile Association (AAA) against the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (PANYNJ)’s recent decision to increase the tolls on the Outerbridge Crossing, Goethels Bridge, and Bayonne Bridge. “This toll hike is the straw that breaks the camel’s back,” said Grimm. “At a time when many families are struggling to put food on the table, this toll increase will not just empty the pockets of every hard-working resident of Staten Island, but kill our jobs and businesses. Companies are already planning to leave the New York Container Terminal for New Jersey’s ports in order to avoid the toll, putting thousands of high-paying jobs at risk. I will not standby and allow the residents of Staten Island to be used as a bailout for the Port Authority’s debt and overspending. Years of mismanagement at the Port Authority have led us down this path and it’s time we said ‘Enough!’” "At a time when so many Staten Island residents are suffering financially, we need to fight these toll increases at every opportunity,” said Malliotakis. “AAA's arguments regarding the legality of the Port Authority's actions have significant merit and I am proud to join Congressman Grimm in lending support to their lawsuit. We will continue to work as a team to fight these outrageous toll hikes and urge the Port Authority to search for other sources of revenue before coming to our constituents and asking them to pay more." Three of the four bridges on which the tolls were imposed are on Staten Island and many residents use them daily in their commutes. The brief argues that Staten Island residents are more affected by the toll hike than anywhere else, yet receive little in return. Furthermore, the brief argues that the tolls could cost the New York Container Terminal business, leading to direct and indirect job loss. Overall, without relief, the toll hikes could cause irreparable damage to the people of Staten Island. AAA brought up a similar case in 1989 in the Automobile Club of New York v. Port Authority, which argued that toll revenue to pay for the PATH train was illegal; however, the court ruled that the toll was “just and reasonable” given the “close relationship” between the PATH rail and PANYNJ’s mission of developing transportation infrastructure. In regards to the current AAA case, Grimm and Malliotakis’ brief supports the argument that there is not a “close relationship” in charging bridge tolls to pay for the $11 billion World Trade Center development. In addition, former Staten Island Congressman Guy V. Molinari illustrated in 1987, while engaged in debate on the House floor, that Congress’ intent was to allow the courts to determine whether a toll increase on bridges created under the General Bridge Act of 1906 violated the “just and reasonable” standard through an implied cause of action in § 508. The brief addresses four main points: Part I of the brief discusses the operations of the PANYNJ, Staten Island’s nexus to the litigation and the recent toll increases. Part II explains why a cause of action is implied in 33 U.S.C. § 508. Part III illustrates the violation of § 508 that would result if the PANYNJ’s toll increases are not enjoined. Finally, Part IV discusses the Commerce Clause and fundamental Right to Travel violation that results from these recent toll increases. ###
10.03.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement after President Obama sent three long-awaited free trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia, and Panama to Congress for their consideration and approval: “For months, three long-awaited free trade agreements have been sitting on President Obama’s desk, and I am pleased that he has finally made the right decision to send them to Congress for approval. These agreements are an opportunity to give a much-needed boost to the U.S. economy, adding an additional $10 billion to our GDP, as well as increasing America’s competitiveness on the global stage and creating thousands of jobs here at home. For months, Republicans have been calling for the passage of these agreements as part of our plan for job creation, and I welcome this opportunity to work together in a bipartisan manner to move them forward.” ###
09.30.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the death of al-Qaeda operative Anwar al-Awlaki today in Yemen: “The death of Anwar al-Awlaki in Yemen today is an enormous victory for the United States, and I applaud the efforts of our military and intelligence community for this success. After Bin Laden’s death, he became one of the most dangerous al-Qaeda operatives in the world, posing a grave threat to the security of the American people. While his death has moved us one step forward in our fight against global terrorism, there will be many ready to fill his shoes. We are fortunate to have a strong team of dedicated individuals – from our national intelligence officers to the NYPD - constantly working to keep us safe from those who wish to do us harm.” ###
09.27.2011	STATEN ISLAND, NY - Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) announced his support for a lawsuit against the PANYNJ’s outrageous toll hikes, and will soon file an amicus brief. AAA New York and AAA North Jersey are filing a lawsuit in Manhattan today seeking to stop the PANYNJ from raising tolls, arguing that it is in violation of federal law. AAA is also asking the court to compel the PANYNJ to turn over its Capital Plan that lays out the need for toll increases. “This toll hike is the straw that breaks the camel’s back. At a time when many families are struggling to put food on the table, this toll increase will not just empty the pockets of every hard-working resident of Staten Island, but kill our jobs and businesses. Companies are already planning to leave the New York Container Terminal for New Jersey’s ports in order to avoid the toll, putting thousands of high-paying jobs at risk. This really could be the deciding factor for a family considering leaving New York for states like Florida and North Carolina that don’t tax and toll their residents to death.” Rep. Grimm stands in support of AAA’s position that the toll hikes are in violation of the federal law which states that interstate tolls must be “just and reasonable,” pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 508. Rep. Grimm believes it is, in fact, unjust and unreasonable to mandate that Staten Islanders pay higher bridge tolls when they receive little or no direct benefits. One need only look to the PANYNJ’s annual budget last year to discover that the Port Authority bridges and tunnels yield nearly three times the amount of revenue it takes to operate them. Furthermore, the PANYNJ has stated that the hikes will be used to fund projects such as the World Trade Center site, airport improvements, and PATH train improvements – none of which directly benefit the residents of Staten Island. “The PANYNJ admits that the funds raised from the toll hikes will be used to pay for the over-budgeted World Trade Center site in lower Manhattan and the PATH train, which Staten Islanders cannot use because they don’t have a light rail to get them there,” said Grimm. “I will not standby and allow the residents of Staten Island to be used as the bailout for the Port Authority’s debt and overspending. Years of mismanagement at the Port Authority have led us down this path and it’s time we said ‘Enough!’” In addition to the amicus brief, Rep. Grimm has requested a meeting with the Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood to discuss his opposition to the toll hike and urge him to support efforts to overturn the increase. ###
09.23.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement in response to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address at the United Nations: “Today was a proud day for Israel and for the United States. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu displayed true leadership, conviction, and an unrelenting desire for peace. The Prime Minister should be applauded by the world for his bold and steady hand while clearly establishing a steadfast willingness to negotiate and compromise. “As a veteran and an American, I am proud that our most vital ally in the Middle East has laid out such an important vision for peace and the absolute need for security. Let us all hope that President Obama and his administration will move forward without hesitation to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the sovereign Jewish State of Israel and send a clear message to Iran, the Palestinian Authority and the world that America stands with Israel.” Rep. Michael Grimm is a co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus and the Chairman of the Republican Policy Committee’s Task Force on Foreign Policy. ###
09.23.2011	Washington, DC–Congressmen Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Michael Grimm, Brad Sherman (D-CA), Howard Berman (D-CA), and Nan Hayworth (R-NY)announced that they introduced H.R. 3001 in the U.S. House of Representatives on Wednesday to bestow the Congressional Gold Medal on Raoul Wallenberg, a hero who saved thousands of lives during Nazi occupation of Hungary during World War II. “As the savior of 20,000 Jews during the Holocaust, Raoul Wallenberg is certainly one of the greatest figures of the 20th Century,” said Congressman Meeks. “Many prominent Americans owe their lives to Wallenberg’s heroic actions, including my friend, the late Congressman Tom Lantos and his wife Annette. It is my hope, that through introduction and passage of this bill, Congress can help expose the truth about what happened to Wallenberg.” “Raoul Wallenbeg selflessly risked his own life to save the lives of others – offering a ray hope to tens of thousands of Jews seeking to escape the darkness of the Holocaust,” said Congressman Grimm. “He was a brave and extraordinary individual, and I am truly honored to be a part of this effort to bestow the Congressional Medal of Honor on him for his heroic actions.” “Raoul Wallenberg’s courageous actions are an inspiration to humanity, and his legacy continues to live on,” said Congressman Sherman. “He rescued thousands of Jews in Hungary from genocide at the hands of the Nazis during World War II, including the esteemed late Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Tom Lantos. I hope my House colleagues join me in awarding Raoul Wallenberg, posthumously, with the highest honor in Congress.” “I can think of no higher honor to bestow on the memory of Raoul Wallennberg,” stated Congressman Berman. “His courageous and selfless actions spared thousands from the horrors of Nazi death camps, and his legacy continues to serve as an inspiration for those seeking to end genocide and human suffering.” “Raoul Wallenberg’s courage spared tens of thousands of Jewish lives at a time when the machinery of a diabolical government was determined to destroy them and all those who stood in defiance. Mr. Wallenberg lives on today in a million descendants of the people he saved, and he richly deserves the honor of a Congressional Gold Medal. I am privileged to be a lead sponsor of this legislation,” said Congresswoman Hayworth. Wallenberg, a Swedish diplomat posted to Hungary during the Second World War, is credited with saving the lives of tens of thousands of Jews and other innocent people from the Nazis. After making contact with the Russians in order to provide support for Jews under his protection, he disappeared and his precise fate remains unknown. For his extraordinary actions, Wallenberg was made an honorary citizen of the United States in 1981. The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest civilian award Congress can confer upon an individual. A companion bill, S. 1591, was introduced Wednesday in the United States Senate by Senators Kirsten E. Gillibrand (D-NY), Mark Kirk (R-IL), Carl Levin (D-MI), and Mike Johanns (R-NE).
09.23.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the Senate vote against the House-passed continuing resolution to keep the government running through November 18, 2011: “The Senate Democrats failure to pass this bill is the perfect example of why we can’t work together. This bill doubles the President’s emergency funding request and meets the budget level Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid already agreed to in August under the Budget Control Act of 2011. As we try to keep the government running and FEMA aid flowing, Democrats in both chambers have gone back on their word and now insist on playing political games. “Earlier this week, leaders of both parties agreed to a compromise that would have passed the House with bipartisan support. Under Nancy Pelosi’s leadership, they backed out - choosing to play politics with the lives of the American people in a shameful attempt to gain a political advantage. Today, Harry Reid has pulled a sudden reversal and led Senate Democrats in doing the same. “The people of Staten Island and Brooklyn hit by Hurricane Irene cannot afford a lapse in FEMA aid. I find it reprehensible that Harry Reid has failed to put the American people before politics and rejected this bill. It is a sad day in America knowing that political posturing is a bigger priority for him than the citizens he represents.” ###
09.19.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement regarding Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas’ intent to request full membership in the United Nations later this week: “I find it disgraceful that the Palestinian Authority is pushing for UN recognition as a state in an attempt to bypass direct talks with Israel while refusing to recognize Israel’s very right to exist. Support for their request would not only undermine decades of prior UN resolutions and bilateral agreements, but would be a major setback in peace negotiations – posing a greater threat to the stability of the Middle East. The United States has an obligation to stand with Israel in strong opposition to this request. “The Obama Administration has a record of supporting policies that undermine the US-Israel relationship and has deservedly earned the harsh criticism of many Jewish and non-Jewish Americans. While President Obama has failed to consistently stand with Israel, it is important the United States remain adamantly opposed the Palestinian Authority’s request. We must make it clear that we stand firmly with Israel and only support actions that move in the direction of lasting peace.” Rep. Michael Grimm is a co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus and the chairman of the Republican Policy Committee’s Task Force on Foreign Policy. ###
09.16.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) remembers our servicemen on National POW/MIA Recognition Day, which always falls on the third Friday of every September. “In honor of National POW/MIA Recognition Day, let us remember our brave servicemembers who went into combat and never returned home,” said Grimm. “Let us also remember the families who lived in hope and uncertainty, yet never received closure. They have no gravesite to visit, just the memories of their lost love ones. It is important that the legacy of those who became prisoners of war or went missing in action live on, and I am proud that on this day they receive the national recognition they deserve.” Only in the last 20 years has Congress begun to make sure that POWs and MIAs receive national recognition. In 1990, Congress passed Public Law 101-355, recognizing the POW/MIA Flag and designating it ‘as a symbol of our Nation’s concern and commitment to resolving as fully as possible the fates of Americans still prisoner, missing and unaccounted for in Southeast Asia, thus ending the uncertainty for their families and the Nation.’ In 1998, as part of the 1998 National Defense Authorization Act, National POW/MIA Recognition Day was created. It is one of six days where the POW/MIA flag is allowed to be flown. Today, 83,580 are listed as POW/MIA. ###
09.15.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Representatives Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) and Peter T. King (R-NY) sent a letter to the Department of Defense in opposition to New York State’s recent request for a waiver to the Military and Overseas Voter Empowerment (MOVE) Act. Approval of the waiver from this requirement could prevent our servicemen and women overseas from having enough time to fully participate in the 2012 elections. “It’s shameful to think that while our troops are putting their lives on the line fighting for our rights, New York State is asking for a waiver that could keep them from exercising one of those very rights – the right to vote,” said Grimm. “If there’s one issue that Republicans and Democrats should agree on, it’s that our military deserves the chance to vote for the leaders who may send them into harm’s way. In order to ensure that they are not disenfranchised, I am urging that the waiver be denied.” “The men and women of our Armed Forces have earned and deserve an adequate amount of time to cast their ballots,” said King. “Denying New York State’s waiver request is the only way to ensure this.” The MOVE Act was signed into law in 2009. It requires that absentee ballots be sent to overseas voters no later than 45 days prior to an election for federal office. Granting a waiver from this requirement would not provide the men and women of New York State serving in uniform overseas with enough time to fully participate in the 2012 elections, thus disenfranchising them. The text of the letter is below: September 15, 2011 Mr. Robert Carey Director, Federal Voting Assistance Program Department of Defense 1155 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1155 Dear Mr. Carey, I am writing today to express my concern regarding New York State’s recent request for a waiver to the Military and Overseas Voter Empowerment (MOVE) Act and how it’s approval would unduly disenfranchise our state’s military personnel who wish to vote. The MOVE Act requires that absentee ballots be sent to overseas voters no later than 45 days prior to an election for federal office. Granting a waiver from this requirement would simply not provide the men and women of New York State serving in uniform overseas with enough time to fully participate in the 2012 elections. In its waiver request, New York State cites certain hardships in meeting the 45-day requirement, to include a late primary date and logistical problems due to redistricting. These excuses are unacceptable. Our military service members risk their lives to secure for others the right to vote. It would be shameful, if in return, we deny them the proper amount of time to cast their own ballots. They have earned the right to participate in this, the most essential civic responsibility, and should not be disadvantaged because of their service to our country. New York State has expressed its commitment to the ideal that all ballots for military and special federal voters should be received and counted. Requesting a waiver does not demonstrate that commitment. If the state is granted a waiver today, what is to prevent it from asking for another waiver in the future? We must ensure that those in our armed forces are not ignored during the 2012 elections. The brave members of our nation’s military deserve better and I respectfully request that you deny New York State’s request for a waiver. Sincerely, MICHAEL G. GRIMM PETER T. KING ###
09.14.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Representaive Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) joined House colleagues in planting a tree on the West Front of the Capitol to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks. The memorial tree is a swamp white oak, over 400 of which were recently planted on the plaza of the National September 11 Memorial and Museum at the World Trade Center. Swamp white oaks are native to eastern states from South Carolina to Maine and to states as far west as Iowa and Missouri. The tree is fast growing and has a lifespan of up to 350 years. The effort was led by Representative Jerry Nadler. Members participating in the ceremony include: House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and NY Representatives Carolyn Maloney, Nydia Velázquez, Eliot Engel, Michael Grimm, and New Jersey Representative Steve Rothman and Pennsylvania Representative Mike Kelly. ###
09.13.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) joined Foreign Affairs Committee Chair Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and other members of Congress in a press conference in support of H.R. 2829, the United Nations Transparency, Accountability, and Reform Act, which places conditions on U.S. funding to the United Nations (UN) in order to reform it. “At a time when American families are struggling to put food on the table, we cannot continue to blindly waste taxpayer dollars funding the UN’s ineffective and misguided programs,” said Grimm. “Last year, the U.S. sent $7.7 billion to the UN, which continues to push an anti-Israel agenda and puts human rights violators like Iran and Cuba in positions of power. Americans should not have to foot the bill for these programs. This legislation eliminates the ‘no strings attached’ policies of the past and brings accountability to the funding structure by letting the U.S. fund the programs it deems effective. In doing so it allows the U.S. to support programs that work, and provides an incentive for other programs to improve.” The legislation would fundamentally change the way the U.S. and other member states fund the UN. Currently, most UN activities are paid for through a general budget, funded through mandatory contributions from UN member states. However, some organizations, including UNICEF and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, are separately funded through voluntary contributions. The legislation makes all funding on a voluntary basis (rather than the current assessed basis), allowing the U.S. and other member states to choose what they fund at the UN, and what they do not. The legislation also prohibits U.S. contributions to the United Nations Human Rights Council, the Goldstone Report, and the Durban process, and would cut off contributions to any UN entity which upgrades the status of the Palestinian mission to the UN. “I find it disgraceful that the Palestinian Authority is pushing for UN recognition as a state in an attempt to bypass direct talks with Israel, and while refusing to recognize Israel’s right to exist,” said Grimm. “I believe the U.S. has a duty to stand with Israel in opposition to this maneuver and this legislation allows us to do so.” H.R. 2829 currently has 74 cosponsors and Rep. Grimm is an original cosponsor. Rep. Grimm is a co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus and chairman of the Republican Policy Committee’s Task Force on Foreign Policy. ###
09.10.2011	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) announces that FEMA has just declared Richmond and Kings Counties eligible for Individual Assistance (IA) under the Emergency Disaster Declaration issued for the State of New York in response to Hurricane Irene. This allows individuals whose homes have been damaged by the storm to apply for aid. “I am thrilled that FEMA has recognized the extent of the damage to Staten Island and granted its residents the opportunity to apply for much-needed aid to help them get back on their feet,” said Grimm. “I extensively toured the district in the aftermath of the storm and personally guided the FEMA team to the hardest hit areas in order to ensure that Richmond County would become eligible for individual assistance. I thank everyone who contacted my office to report property damage, as that helped us direct the FEMA team to areas in most need of relief. I also thank my staff, as I believe we would not have received the assistance without their dedicated work throughout the hurricane and the days that followed. I remain committed to helping the people of Staten Island recover from the storm damage and my staff is fully available to assist with any questions or problems that may arise throughout the application process.” According to FEMA, the assistance is not meant to replace everything that was damaged or lost and will be issued to those who need it most. The assistance is intended to help individuals recover from the worst of the damage. It may be issued in the form of a grant or a loan. To be eligible for FEMA funding, applicants must live in an area declared a disaster, have filed a claim with their insurance company if insured and may apply for two types of funding. That funding can include “housing needs” – temporary housing, repair or replacement or “other than housing needs – including fuel, medical costs or damaged vehicles. To apply for FEMA aid, go to www.fema.gov or www.DisasterAssistance.gov or call 1-800-621-3362. The Small Business Administration​ also offers disaster funding to business owners in the form of loan assistance. ###
09.10.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement: “As thousands of protestors launched attack on and around the Israeli Embassy in Egypt, I find it reprehensible that Egyptian authorities have not acted swiftly to stop the violence. The Egyptian government has failed to uphold its international obligations to protect the Israeli Embassy, and as one of Israel’s closest allies, I believe America must honor its obligation to provide support. At a time when the United States is remembering the deadliest attack on American soil on 9/11, we cannot turn our back on Israel when it is faced with attack. I am proud to stand with Israel against this act of violence and will do all I can to ensure the United States delivers the necessary support to keep the Israelis safe. ” ###
09.08.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement: “Today we learned of a ‘specific, credible but unconfirmed’ terror threat against New York. As this is anticipated during important dates like the 9/11 anniversary, the NYPD has already taken heightened measures to keep New Yorkers safe, and with today’s news, it has further increased security measures. Under the exceptional leadership of Commissioner Ray Kelly, we are fortunate to have the best and brightest police force in the nation that takes all necessary measures to keep us safe. All threats should be taken seriously; however, we cannot allow terrorists to dictate how we go about our daily lives or intimidate us into changing our commemoration of 9/11 this weekend. I encourage all New Yorkers to go on with their lives as usual, and to remain vigilant and be proactive by reporting any suspicious activities to law enforcement.” ###
09.08.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on President Obama’s address to a Joint Session of Congress: “The American people are tired of speeches – whether they come from Democrats, Republicans, or tonight from President Obama. Speeches don’t create jobs; actions do. This why I have been frustrated by the lack of action from Senate Democrats who refuse to consider any of the nine jobs bills passed by House Republicans. “There were things I heard tonight that I have consistently agreed with, some that I opposed, and others that I would like to review further when I receive a copy of the bill. Despite what the president said tonight, we will not turn this economy around until real actions are taken to remove the burdensome regulations that are creating barriers for our nations job creators, reduce our debt, simplify the tax code, or begin moving on a long-term plan for economic growth that allows the private sector to create jobs, not the government. “The bottom line is that the people of Staten Island and Brooklyn want and need to get back to work, and I remain committed to fighting for the passage of a common-sense plan that creates jobs and restores economic security for all Americans.” ###
09.08.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Michael G. Grimm (R-NY), Charles Rangel (D- NY), Peter King (R-NY), Gregory Meeks (D-NY) and Timothy Bishop (D-NY) introduced the 9/11 Memorial Cross National Monument Establishment Act of 2011 (H.R. 2865), which will establish the 9/11 Memorial Cross located at the 9/11 Memorial Museum in New York City as a national monument. This cross has long been seen as a symbol of hope and freedom in the aftermath of 9/11; however, it has recently become a subject of attack by the “American Atheists” group who filed a lawsuit against the inclusion of the cross in the museum. “This cross was a symbol of hope and freedom at a time when New Yorkers were coping with loss and destruction in the aftermath of the deadliest terrorist attack on American soil,” said Grimm. “I find it reprehensible that this group would disgrace the beliefs of millions of people in an effort to garner a little media attention for their cause. By establishing the 9/11 Memorial Cross as a national monument, we ensure this symbol of freedom continues to stand for all those we lost and those whose faith remains to this day.” "Freedom of religion is one of the founding principles of our great nation. We cannot take away the 9/11 cross, which has for the past decade served to honor all those who perished because of 9/11 -- the victims on the planes, the first-responders who rushed to try to save lives, those who have since fallen to health ailments related to being at Ground Zero -- and has provided solace for their families and friends," said Rangel. "While we cannot fully heal their pain and wounds, we can express our support by establishing the cross as a national symbol of hope and freedom." “As is any other religious symbol or object of hope that was recovered from that tragic site, this cross is part of the tapestry and history of that hallowed ground," said Meeks. "Therefore, I am honored to co-sponsor this legislation to commemorate this object as a national monument to be included in the 9/11 Memorial Museum.” “It is vital to preserve the artifacts that gave so many Americans solace and hope in the dark days following the September 11th attacks on our nation,” said Bishop. “The WTC Cross is an important symbol of national unity and fortitude that deserves a place of honor at the September 11th Memorial Museum.” During recovery efforts, the intact cross beam, that was believed to have come from One World Trade Center, was discovered among the debris. Throughout the recovery efforts, the 17-foot-tall cross became an icon of hope and comfort in the wake of the attacks. In October 2001, it was erected on a pedestal near St. Peter’s Church, where it continued as a shrine and tourist attraction. On July 23, 2011 the cross was transported to the WTC site and lowered into its permanent setting inside the museum, which will open to the public in 2012. Shortly after on July 27, 2011 an atheist group identified as "American Atheists" filed a lawsuit claiming the inclusion of the cross-shaped steel beams promotes Christianity over all other religions on public property and diminishes the civil rights of non-Christians. While the cross may have been the first religious symbol moved into the exhibition due to its size, it is not the only religious symbol that will be on display. Along with the cross, the exhibit will include a Star of David cut from WTC steel and a Bible fused to a piece of steel that was found during recovery efforts. The cross, however, was the only symbol singled out by the American Atheists. Rep. Grimm’s bipartisan legislation is in response to the actions of the American Atheists in order to preserve the 9/11 Memorial Cross’s place as a national symbol in the 9/11 Memorial Museum. ###
09.07.2011	New York, NY – U.S. Reps. Carolyn Maloney, Jerrold Nadler, Peter King, Charles Rangel, Nydia Velázquez, and Michael Grimm; Denis Hughes, President of the New York State AFL-CIO; Pat Lynch, President of the Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association; Al Hagan, President of the Uniformed Fire Officers Association; John Feal, President of the FealGood Foundation; and 9/11 first responders and survivors gathered at ground zero today to announce that the lawmakers have filed a petition with 9/11 Health Program Administrator Dr. John Howard that will require Dr. Howard to consider within 60 days whether or not to add coverage for cancers under the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act. A copy of the petition, which was also signed by New York Senators Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and Congresswoman Yvette Clarke, follows. The lawmakers filed their petition following the release last week in The Lancet of a peer-reviewed study by the New York City Fire Department that indicated an elevated risk of melanoma, thyroid and prostate cancer, and non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma among firefighters who served at ground zero compared to the general population, and an overall increase in cancer among firefighters exposed to toxins at the World Trade Center site compared to firefighters who weren’t exposed to those toxins. In July, Dr. Howard announced that, following a review of the available medical evidence, cancers would not yet be considered covered conditions under the Zadroga Act. However, the only peer-reviewed study of possible 9/11-related cancers available at that time was a small study showing a possible rise in multiple myeloma among 9/11 responders. “Doctors at the 9/11 health clinics have been telling us for years that cancers would likely result from the toxic dust that lingered near ground zero following the attacks. Last week’s study showing elevated cancer rates among firefighters who served at ground zero provided alarming evidence that calls for action, so we are filing a petition that requires Dr. Howard to consider covering cancers under the Zadroga Act,” Maloney said. “I believe that we should provide proper care for cancer-stricken 9/11 heroes and heroines, even if that means treating a few cancers that may not have been caused by the attacks. The benefits far outweigh the costs. It took decades for scientists to prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that smoking causes cancer. 9/11 responders and others exposed to the deadly toxins can’t wait that long.” “Many of us have known for years that exposure to Ground Zero contaminants has led -- and will continue to lead -- to increases in cancer among 9/11 responders and survivors,” said Nadler. “With last week's publication of the FDNY study in The Lancet, we believe we have sufficient scientific evidence to make the case to the medical establishment and put this question to rest. As the study shows, toxins are strongly linked to the development of melanoma, thyroid cancer, prostate cancer, and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma among responders at Ground Zero.” “It is imperative that Dr. Howard add cancer to the list of covered conditions so that these responders can get the care they so obviously need and deserve from their time at Ground Zero,” said King. Senator Gillibrand said, “Our first responders and their families continue to suffer physically and financially from deadly cancers, and the longer they have to wait on a cancer determination, the longer our 9/11 heroes will continue to suffer without proper treatment or compensation. For many responders, this is a matter of life and death and we will do everything possible to speed up this process.” “In the last ten years, so many of our first responders developed rare cancers that it is very plausible there is a link between their illnesses and the toxins they were exposed to at Ground Zero. With the release of last week’s study, we finally have new evidence,” said Senator Schumer. “I urge Dr. Howard to promptly review the study because its data argues that we should add certain cancers to the list of illnesses covered under the Zadroga Act.” "The freedom we enjoy today is not free. We have an obligation to care for those who rise to the defense of our nation. We don’t leave our injured soldiers on the battlefield, and we certainly shouldn’t leave the 9/11 first responders who are at increased risk for cancer and other ailments with no funding," said Rangel. "While we can never fully express our gratitude for their sacrifices and patriotism, we can provide them the care they need and deserve. I am proud to stand alongside my dear friends and colleagues to stand up for the heroes who now most need our help." Velázquez said, “The evidence is clear-- toxins released at Ground Zero cause cancer. It would be unconscionable to deny assistance to New York residents and first responders who contract these diseases as a result of 9/11.” “There is no doubt in my mind that the high cancer rates among 9/11 firefighters are due to their exposure to toxins from the WTC site. On 9/11, our first responders selflessly rushed into the toxic dust cloud to save the lives of others, and now we have a responsibility to save theirs. We cannot turn our backs on these brave heroes, which is why I proudly stand with my colleagues in urging that cancer be added to the list of ailments covered by the Zadroga Act,” said Grimm. “I applaud U.S. Reps. Carolyn Maloney, Jerrold Nadler and Peter King for taking the lead in filing a petition requiring federal health officials to consider adding cancer coverage under the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act. As a co-sponsor of this legislation, I join the voices of my colleagues and other New Yorkers to ensure that 9/11 first responders are adequately covered for the illnesses and ailments they have suffered because of their selfless acts immediately following the attacks. We owe it to these brave men and women who sacrificed their lives for the sake of so many ten years ago,” stated Clarke. “We as a nation have a moral obligation to the brave first responders who put their lives at risk to toil day and night at the World Trade Center site. This latest study suggesting an elevated risk of cancer among firefighters who served at ground zero provides a compelling case that we should expand the Zadroga Act to cover cancers. We cannot wait for endless studies to tell us what we all know: Those who were exposed to the toxic dust at the World Trade Center deserve the fullest possible healthcare coverage. They made incredible sacrifices for our community and our nation and it is past time to give them the benefits they are due,” said New York State Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver. "Recent studies have shown evidence of a rise in cancer related illnesses for 9/11 first responders. As a result, it is important that cancers be added to the list of covered conditions under the Zadroga Act. We have a responsibility to protect the long term health of our heroes. Including coverage of cancers is an important step in that direction,” said Denis Hughes, President, New York State AFL-CIO. Sec. 3312(a)(6) of the Zadroga Act states that an interested party, defined as “a representative of any organization representing WTC responders, a nationally recognized medical association, a Clinical or Data Center, a State or political subdivision, or any other interested person,” may petition the Program Administrator to add a condition to the list of WTC-related health conditions. Once the WTC Program Administrator receives a written petition, the law states that “not later than 60 days after the date of receipt of such petition the Administrator shall—(i) request a recommendation of the Advisory Committee; (ii) publish a proposed rule in the Federal Register to add such health condition…; (iii) publish in the Federal Register the Administrator’s determination not to publish such a proposed rule and the basis for such determination; or (iv) publish in the Federal Register a determination that insufficient evidence exists to take action under clauses (i) through (iii).” ### September 7, 2011 John Howard, MD Director National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health 395 E Street SW, Suite 9200 Patriots Plaza Building Washington, DC 20201 Dear Dr. Howard: As the sponsors of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, we write to file a petition pursuant to Sec. 3312(a)(6) of the Zadroga Act requesting that you conduct an immediate review of new medical evidence showing increased cancer rates among firefighters who served at ground zero and that you consider adding coverage for cancer under the Zadroga Act. We read with great concern -as we are sure you must have done- the study conducted by the New York City Fire Department and published last week in The Lancet that indicated an elevated risk of melanoma, thyroid and prostate cancer, and non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma among firefighters who served at ground zero, compared to the general population, and an overall increase in cancers among firefighters exposed to toxins at the World Trade Center site, compared to firefighters who were not exposed to those toxins. As you know, the only peer-reviewed study of possible 9/11-related cancers prior to this one was a small study showing a possible rise in multiple myeloma among 9/11 responders. On August 8, 2011, we wrote to Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius requesting that she act quickly to form the Science/Technical Advisory Committee, as required by the Zadroga Act. A copy of that letter is enclosed. Since the Zadroga Act requires you to take action on our petition within sixty days, and since this committee is charged with reviewing scientific and medical evidence to make recommendations on adding coverage for additional health conditions, we once again respectfully urge the Secretary and you to set up this panel in the next few weeks. We feel strongly that there must be a scientific basis for adding coverage for new conditions under the Zadroga Act. However, given the severity of the illnesses reported in The Lancet, we also want to make sure that this and other peer-reviewed studies linking cancers to the attacks are evaluated as expeditiously as possible. Thank you for your attention to this petition, and thank you for your work to establish a strong World Trade Center Health Program. Sincerely, CAROLYN B. MALONEY JERROLD NADLER PETER T. KING CHARLES E. SCHUMER KIRSTEN E. GILLIBRAND CHARLES RANGEL NYDIA M. VELÁZQUEZ MICHAEL GRIMM YVETTE D. CLARKE
09.05.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Representative Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) will introduce legislation this week entitled the 9/11 Memorial Cross National Monument Establishment Act of 2011, which will establish the 9/11 Memorial Cross located at the 9/11 Memorial Museum in New York City as a national monument. This cross has long been seen as a symbol of hope and freedom in the aftermath of 9/11; however, it has recently become a subject of attack by the “American Atheists” group who filed a lawsuit against the inclusion of the cross in the museum. Rep. Grimm’s legislation preserves the 9/11 cross as a national symbol, securing its place in the museum. “This cross was a symbol of hope and freedom at a time when New Yorkers were coping with loss and destruction in the aftermath of the deadliest terrorist attack on American soil,” said Grimm. “I find it reprehensible that this group would disgrace the beliefs of millions of people in an effort to garner a little media attention for their cause. By establishing the 9/11 Memorial Cross as a national monument, we ensure this symbol of freedom continues to stand for all those we lost and those whose faith remains to this day.” The cross was first discovered during search and recovery efforts. When One World Trade Center collapsed, it sent debris down on to 6 World Trade Center, and gutted the interior of the building. In the midst the debris was an intact cross beam, which its discoverer believes came from One World Trade Center. The cross was first encountered by construction worker Frank Silecchia in the vicinity of where 6 World Trade Center had stood. Throughout the recovery efforts, the 17-foot-tall cross became an icon of hope and comfort in the wake of the attacks. After a few weeks, an expedited approval from the office of New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani was granted to erect it on a pedestal on a portion of the former plaza near St. Peter’s Church. The 9/11 Memorial Cross was moved by crane on October 3, 2001 and installed on October 4, 2001 where it continued as a shrine and tourist attraction. On July 23, 2011 the cross was transported onto the WTC site and lowered into its permanent setting inside the museum, which will open to the public in 2012. Shortly after on July 27, 2011 an atheist group identified as "American Atheists" filed a lawsuit claiming the inclusion of the cross-shaped steel beams promotes Christianity over all other religions on public property and diminishes the civil rights of non-Christians. While the cross may have been the first religious symbol moved into the exhibition due to its size, it is not the only religious symbol that will be on display. Along with the cross, the exhibit will include a Star of David cut from WTC steel and a Bible fused to a piece of steel that was found during recovery efforts. The cross, however, was the only symbol singled out by the American Atheists. Rep. Grimm’s legislation is in response to the actions of the American Atheists in order to preserve the 9/11 Memorial Cross’s place as a national symbol in the 9/11 Memorial Museum. ###
09.05.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following Labor Day statement: “As we join together with family and friends to celebrate Labor Day, let us thank the hard-working men and women of our nation - from our teachers who teach our children and trade unions who build New York’s infrastructure to our doctors and nurses, cops and firefighters, and business owners. They all toil to make this nation better for us and our families. "Let us also remember those who continue to seek work. We are at a critical moment in our nation where we must get our economy back on track and create more jobs. This nation was built on hard work and opportunity, and I am committed to restoring the opportunities that allow Americans to work hard and create a better life for themselves and future generations to come.” ###
09.01.2011	BROOKLYN, NY – Today, Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-Brooklyn/Staten Island) and Brigadier General Peter DeLuca of the Army Corps of Engineers will tour the area of the Belt Parkway that flooded as a result of the damaged Brooklyn sea wall. The purpose of the tour is to assess the problem and begin identifying solutions to stop the issue of recurring flooding. “It is a pleasure to be joined by Brigadier General DeLuca to assess an ongoing problem with the sea wall. Hurricane Irene was yet another wake-up call that the recurring flooding of the Belt Parkway must be stopped before it’s too late. I am taking the lead on this issue by beginning a dialogue among the principle stakeholders – including the Army Corps of Engineers and the NYC DEP, DOT and the Parks Department – to identify a real solution to the recurring flooding problem. The Brooklyn community cannot afford another flood during a serious emergency, and I will do everything I can to get the proper governmental agencies to address this issue once and for all.” ###
08.29.2011	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement regarding recovery efforts in Staten Island: “Throughout the weekend, my staff and I were in repeated conference calls with FEMA to ensure that the proper emergency resources were available to all New Yorkers, but especially here on Staten Island which is uniquely disadvantaged due to our geographic isolation. As we recover from the aftermath of Hurricane Irene it is clear that there has been a lot of flooding, storm damage, and still thousands of Staten Islanders left without power. FEMA is still coordinating life-saving operations across the northeast including severe flooding in New Jersey and upstate New York. I am committed to working with local officials and FEMA to assess the full extent of the damage, so that Staten Island can get the federal aid it needs as quickly as possible.” ###
08.27.2011	STATEN ISLAND, NY – Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement praising efforts between NYC and Staten Island officials to quickly secure a back-up generator for Richmond University Medical Center (RUMC): “The outreach from Mayor Bloomberg’s office has been tremendous and extremely attentive to our concerns. All our officials on both sides of the aisle have worked together to compile a list of needs for Staten Islanders, and we identified the greatest need as a back-up generator for RUMC. As Staten Island’s only open hospital, this generator is essential to public safety, and I am pleased that it is currently en route and will be in place before the storm hits. This is a perfect example of the type of teamwork needed to put the safety of the public first, as we work together to prepare for the impact of the storm.” ###
08.27.2011	My Staten Island Office will serve as a command center to assist you with evacuation, emergency needs, and questions on Hurricane Irene. My staff and I are ready and available to assist you and can be reached at 718-351-1062. I urge you to prepare by stocking up on emergency supplies and to continuously monitor local TV and radio broadcasts for real-time information. If you would like to volunteer to help with emergency efforts in shelters, please contact my office. EMERGENCY INFORMATION & ASSISTANCE Rep. Grimm’s New York Office: 718-351-1062NYC Information & Assistance: 311For Life or Death Emergencies, please call 911. Emergency Resources: Register for emergency notifications by calling 311 or visiting www.NYC.gov/notifynycNYC Office of Emergency Management: www.NYC.gov/oemNY State Emergency Management Office: www.semo.state.ny.usFederal Emergency Management Agency: www.fema.gov, www.floodsmart.comDepartment of Homeland Security: www.ready.govAmerican Red Cross in Greater New York: www.nyredcross.org EVACUATION Mayor Bloomberg has announced a mandatory evacuation for residents living in Zone A, the lowest level coastal areas subject to dangerous storm damage and severe flooding. Zone A residents must be out by 5pm Saturday. If you are told to evacuate, then evacuate. Residents are encouraged to leave as soon as possible for a friend or family member’s home in a safer area outside Zone A .If you have nowhere to go, go to an evacuation center. Pets are welcome at shelters. Kosher meals will be provided at shelters, but must be requested. Neighborhoods in Evacuation Zone A: West of Arthur Kill Road: Rossville, Charleston, Travis Below Hylan Boulevard: Oakwood Beach, New Dorp Beach, Midland Beach, Ocean Breeze, South Beach, Arrochar, Bay Terrace, Great Kills, Eltingville, Annadale, Huguenot, Prince’s Bay, Pleasant Plains, Richmond Valley North of Richmond Terrace: Mariner’s Harbor, Elm Park (South to Innis between John and Treadwell), Port Richmond (South to Post between Jewett and Clove), West Brighton, Livingston, New Brighton, St. George, Tompkinsville Evacuation Centers: Curtis High School 105 Hamilton Avenue, New Brighton I.S. 51 Markham Intermediate School 20 Houston St., Graniteville Petrides Educational Complex 715 Ocean Terr., Sunnyside Susan E. Wagner High School 1200 Manor Road, Sea View Tottenville High School 100 Luten Ave., Huguenot.Evacuees are asked to come to the rear of the building. ENERGY/ POWER OUTAGES Prepare for power outages that could last days or weeks. Repairs to fallen power lines cannot occur until the flood water safely subsides. Con-Edison:Con-Ed has an emergency plan in place to address power outages as quickly as possible.Report power outages: 1-800-75-CONED (1-800-752-6633) or www.coned.com National Grid:National Grid provides gas to Staten Island and Brooklyn. If you would like to receive mobile updates from National Grid on the storm restoration efforts, Text Irene to 50101.Report gas emergencies: 718-643-4050
08.25.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-Staten Island/Brooklyn) urges constituents to prepare for Hurricane Irene, and has provided a list of resources to help residents get ready and stay alert. The storm is expected to hit New York on Sunday, and residents are encouraged to have emergency plans in place 48 hours in advance. “My staff and I are working closely with FEMA, New York State and New York City officials on preparedness and emergency procedures, and we are constantly monitoring the course and strength of Hurricane Irene,” said Grimm. “Safety remains my number one priority and I encourage all residents to take inventory of their emergency supplies and first aid kits and check in with neighbors who may need assistance, particularly the elderly and disabled.” Congressman Grimm will provide updates on procedures and storm coverage on his facebook page www.facebook.com/repmichaelgrimm and website www.grimm.house.gov, and has provided the following list of resources and tips. Residents are also encouraged to stay tuned into local TV and radio broadcasts for information on the storm and evacuation procedures. ### Emergency Hurricane Information and Preparedness Guidance Emergency Resources: Register for emergency notifications by calling 311 or visiting www.NYC.gov/notifynycNYC Office of Emergency Management: www.NYC.gov/oemNY State Emergency Management Office: www.semo.state.ny.usFederal Emergency Management Agency: www.fema.gov & www.floodsmart.comDepartment of Homeland Security: www.ready.govAmerican Red Cross in Greater New York: www.nyredcross.org Rep. Michael Grimm’s District Offices: Staten Island: 718-351-1062Brooklyn: 718-630-5277 Tracking the Storm: www.hurricane.govwww.noaa.govwww.weather.gov FEMA’s Tips for Storm Preparation: Prepare an emergency kit: www.ready.gov/hurricanes : Ready.gov is FEMA’s site for tips on creating your family emergency plan and building an emergency kit. Create an emergency plan: Know what to do if you have to evacuate. Make sure you know how to contact members of your family and have an emergency contact number for someone out of state that knows where you are in the event of an emergency. Be informed: Know evacuation routes and listen to local authorities when asked to evacuate. Whether you live in a coastal community or inland, speak with your insurance agent now about flood insurance and review your homeowner’s policy. Every state is at risk for flooding and homeowners insurance does not cover flood damage. To learn more about your risk and flood insurance, visit www.floodsmart.gov.
08.24.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement regarding the summer budget outlook released by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office: “Today the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) sent Washington another warning sign that we must get spending under control. Years of fiscal irresponsibility have put our economy on a path of slow recovery and high unemployment. Our deficit has exceeded $1 trillion for the third year in a row and the CBO predicts that unemployment will remain above 8% through 2014. We cannot continue down this road if we are going to turn the economy around and get Americans back to work. “Since day one, I have supported policies that cut spending, balance the budget, and remove government-imposed barriers to job creation. House Republicans have put forth several plans that encompass these principles, yet Washington Democrats refuse to act while continuing to repeat the mantra of more government spending as the cure. “Whether it comes from the CBO, S&P, or the people I represent in Staten Island and Brooklyn, the message is loud and clear: ‘Stop the spending!’ Now is the time to heed these warnings and take action to enact polices that grow our economy and create jobs, in order to create a stronger America for our children and grandchildren.”
08.22.2011	STATEN ISLAND – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement: “Today we celebrate the 350th anniversary of Staten Island, commemorating our borough’s rich and diverse history. On this day in 1661, Staten Island was founded by Dutch, French, and Belgian families seeking religious and economic freedom - laying the foundation to make it an epicenter for the freedom of ideas, trade, and settlement by those seeking a better life for themselves and their families. As Staten Islanders, we are fortunate to be a part of our nation's early history. The Conference House in Tottenville served as the site for the only peace talks during the Revolutionary War. On September 11, 1776, when Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, and Edward Rutledge met with General Howe, they refused his offer for amnesty in exchange for withdrawing the Declaration of Independence. They would not back down on what they believed were the unalienable rights of men, and it is because of their belief in this country, that we continue to enjoy these freedoms today. I am honored to call Staten Island my home and proud to represent the diverse residents of our great borough. I invite you all to join me in celebrating the birth of Staten Island and its invaluable contribution to the history of New York and our great nation.” ###
08.19.2011	STATEN ISLAND – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on last night’s toll hike deal: “I am outraged that Governor Cuomo and the PANYNJ have failed to listen to the voices of people of Staten Island and are moving forward with the toll hikes. As I have said from the day the tolls were announced, this toll increase will not just empty the pockets of every hard-working resident of Staten Island, but kill our jobs and businesses. The announcement that the multinational shipping line APL Limited is leaving the New York Container Terminal is proof – and at a time when the terminal has plans to expand and create more high paying jobs on the island. I refuse to let the Port Authority declare Staten Island ‘Closed for Business,’ and will continue to fight this toll hike and every proposed annual increase. Staten Islanders will not be the bailout for the Port Authority’s debt, mismanagement, and overspending. We deserve some relief.” ###
08.12.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement today after the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the individual mandate in the health care law is unconstitutional: “I applaud today’s decision by the 11th Circuit that the mandate in the Democrats’ health care law requiring all Americans to buy government-approved health insurance violates the U.S. Constitution. All Americans deserve the freedom of choice when selecting a health care plan that’s best for them and their families, and they should not be forced by the federal government to purchase a plan they do not want. This decision moves us closer to repealing the costly mandates in Obamacare that are killing jobs and burdening America’s families and small businesses. I have already voted to repeal and defund Obamacare, and I remain committed to continuing the fight to overturn the law once and for all.” ###
08.09.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Next week, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-Staten Island/Brooklyn) will travel to Israel on a week-long congressional trip to gain firsthand understanding of some of America’s most pressing foreign policy challenges. The purpose of the trip is to learn more about the U.S.-Israel relationship, the peace process, Israel’s security situation, and important political and economic trends in the region. “Israel is our closest ally in the Middle East, with whom a strong partnership is essential to the security of the region and the United States,” said Grimm. “It is one of the most experienced countries in regards to counter-terrorism, defense, and law enforcement, as well as a thriving democracy that shares the same values that define the American way of life. I eagerly look forward to this opportunity to share experiences and learn from the Israelis as part of an ongoing effort to strengthen our relationship.” The itinerary includes meetings with senior Israeli and Palestinian officials, military and religious leaders, peace negotiators, and defense experts. Members of Congress will explore opportunities for bilateral economic and technological cooperation with the Israeli business community. They will also visit various religious and cultural sites. The trip is being arranged by the American Israel Educational Foundation (AIEF), a charity affiliated with the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC). AIEF Israel seminars are considered among the most substantive, rigorous, and valuable opportunities for members of Congress to learn about the U.S.-Israel relationship. No tax dollars will be used to pay for the trip, as it is paid for by AIEF, which is privately funded by donations from American citizens. AEIF is hosting three week-long congressional trips in August, bringing a total of 84 House members to Israel this month. The congressman will be posting real-time updates throughout the trip on Facebook (Rep. Michael Grimm) and Twitter (@repmichaelgrimm). Rep. Grimm is the Co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus and the Chairman of the Republican Policy Committee’s Task Force on Foreign Policy. ###
08.07.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement: “Today, New York lost a great leader with the passing of former Governor Hugh Carey. A Brooklyn-born Irish-American, Carey dedicated his life to service, rising through the ranks to serve as a colonel in WWII, then as a member of the U.S. House of Representatives, and ultimately as governor of the State of New York. It was Carey’s smart leadership that saved NYC from an economic crisis - not unlike the one our nation faces today - with sound policies that cut taxes, stopped borrowing, and controlled spending. The tough decisions he made saved our city from bankruptcy, and over 30 years later, remain an example that Washington can live by as we fight to restore economic security in the U.S. ‘The man who saved New York’ may be gone, but his legacy will live on for ages. On behalf of the people of Staten Island and Brooklyn, I send my deepest condolences to his family and loved ones who shall remain in our thoughts and prayers.” ###
08.04.2011	WASHINGON, DC - Today, Representative Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) became a cosponsor of H.R. 2433, the Veteran Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act , which takes a comprehensive approach to getting our nation’s veterans back to work by incorporating education, training, and protections, and eliminating roadblocks in the system to finding and keeping a job. Over 1 million veterans are out of work in America, and this job legislation will help them compete in the austere economic climate. “With unemployment hovering above 9% for over 24 months, finding a job is difficult for everyone, including our nation’s veterans,” said Grimm. “I believe we have a special responsibility to take care of those who put America first to fight for our freedom. The VOW Act addresses a national need for more job placement while fulfilling an important commitment to our veterans.” The bill has several components: 1) It makes Transition Assistance Program (TAP) classes mandatory for service members who are about to be discharged, which trains them in job skills such as resume writing to help them transition into civilian life; 2) It focuses on education by allowing 100,000 unemployed veterans of past wars to access 1-year of Montgomery GI benefits as well as gives state governors the option to use 25% of the funds for direct job training for veterans; 3) It strengthens the employee protections for National Guard and Reserve serviceman – 14% of whom are unemployed - who by law must be reemployed at the jobs they have left to serve; and 4) It removes roadblocks to licensing veterans with specializations such as combat medics, truck drivers, and aircraft technicians. Unemployed Veterans Numbers:• Vietnam Era Veterans: 271,000• Cold War Era Veterans: 290,000• Persian Gulf War Era Veterans: 174,000• Iraq and Afghanistan Era Veterans: 260,000 For more information on New York State services for veterans seeking job placement, please visit: http://www.labor.state.ny.us/vets/vetintropage.shtm or call 1-888-469-7365 and ask for the Veterans Program. ###
08.01.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement: “Today, I voted for a plan to keep America from defaulting on its obligations without raising taxes and mandating spending cuts greater than the amount the debt ceiling was raised – two principles I have stood by throughout this debate. Today’s legislation is far from perfect, and the cuts do not go nearly far enough, but it’s a realistic approach that moves us in the right direction towards economic security. This vote and the preceding debate show that Washington is starting to listen to the American people - something long overdue that Americans have earned and should never be denied. Today their voices were heard. “Each day, I hear the frustration of the American people who remind me that this is not the country we grew up in. The good news is that we can, and will, get it back. The people of Staten Island and Brooklyn sent me to Congress to restore accountability and find a real solution to Washington’s spending addiction. Today’s vote was a small step towards that solution, and the beginning of many more to come as we tackle our out-of-control debt. “I still believe we live in the greatest nation on earth and with each step forward, you have my commitment we will return to the strong and vibrant country we have always been. By continuing to put the people of America before the politics of Washington, we can restore the fiscal discipline needed to get our country back on the path to economic prosperity.” ###
07.29.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on passage of the Budget Control Act: “For months, the only contribution President Obama and Senate Democrats have made towards solving our debt crisis has been a whole lot of rhetoric with very little substance. House Republicans have been working since day one to stop Washington’s reckless spending spree and deal with the debt limit. We sent the Senate the Ryan Budget that cuts $5.8 trillion. Democrats said NO. We sent them the Cut, Cap, and Balance Act which would raise the debt ceiling while cutting $3.7 trillion. Democrats said NO. “Today, we sent them the Budget Control Act, and for the sake of our nation, I urge them to stop their political posturing and say YES. I call on them to stand with the American people and say YES to stopping ‘business as usual’ in Washington, YES to securing the future for our children and grandchildren, and YES to the return of economic prosperity. “While this plan isn’t close to perfect, it’s a small step in the right direction. It encompasses elements of ‘Cut, Cap, and Balance,’ including a guaranteed vote on a Balanced Budget Amendment, which I strongly support. It avoids a default on obligations; it does not raise taxes; and it cuts more than it increases the debt limit. A $1 trillion cut may be a drop in the bucket, but change of this magnitude is never easy or immediate. The president and Senate Democrats have politicized this debate long enough and now we are out of time. I urge them to put politics aside, do what’s best for the future of our country, and vote YES on the Budget Control Act.”
07.28.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Michael G. Grimm (R-NY), Gary Peters (D-MI), Austin Scott (R-GA), and Bill Owens (D-NY) introduced the Business Risk Mitigation and Price Stabilization Act of 2011 (H.R. 2682), a bipartisan bill to clarify that true derivatives end-users are exempt from the margin requirements applied by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to many derivatives contracts. This exemption will allow end-users to continue to use derivatives to maintain low and stable prices for consumers and will free up capital that can be used to create jobs and keep American companies competitive. “American companies are the backbone of our nation, which is why we must keep them strong and help them grow,” said Rep. Grimm. “We have to remove the barriers to job creation imposed on businesses, such as the unnecessary margin posting requirements, if we want to improve the economy and create jobs. This legislation exempts them in order to free up capital that can be used to hire new employees, keep prices low for American consumers, and help our companies remain competitive in the global economy.” “During the debate over the Dodd-Frank Act last year, Democrats and Republicans agreed that the use of derivatives by commercial end-users did not pose a risk to the larger economy,” said Rep. Peters.“In states like Michigan, manufacturing companies use these contracts to lock in fixed prices and interest rates, allowing them to better plan and manage their cash flow. This narrowly crafted bill clarifies what Congress clearly intended – commercial end-users who are not engaged in harmful speculation should not be required to divert capital away from job creation.” “At the end of the day, this needs to be about jobs,” said Rep. Scott. “While we must enact measures that will lessen the chances of another financial crisis, we must also incentivize American companies to continue to use derivatives responsibly so that they can continue to provide American jobs and compete in the global market.” “Upstate New York end-users use swaps to responsibly manage risk and reduce price volatility for their customers. This legislation will ensure that community banks, agriculture co-ops and energy utilities can continue to hedge that risk,” said Rep. Owens. “Avoiding this burden and cost on Upstate job creators will free up capital that can be invested in economic development and putting people back to work.” True end-users are companies that use derivatives to manage an actual business risk - generally to hedge against fluctuating prices, currency rates, or interest rates - and not to speculate. This bill clarifies that end-users employing derivatives to hedge legitimate business risk are exempt from posting margin, consistent with Congressional intent of Dodd-Frank. Forcing true end-users to post margin can have several negative consequences: 1) the costs of hedging could be become so high that they stop hedging, resulting in a detrimental rise in prices for consumers; 2) capital will be restricted that would otherwise be used for job creation or reinvestment to make American companies more competitive in the global economy; and 3) high costs of hedging could drive business overseas to foreign derivatives markets. H.R. 2682 eliminates the margin requirement and thus helps prevent these negative consequences from occurring. ###
07.26.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) became a cosponsor of H.R. 2597, the “American-Owned Property in Occupied Cyprus Claims Act,” that would provide processes for remedies by which U.S. nationals can pursue financial restitution for the illegal use and occupation of their property located in Turkish-occupied Cyprus. In the summer of 1974 Turkey launched a two-phased invasion of the Republic of Cyprus to grab nearly 40 percent of Cyprus’s sovereign territory and force 170,000 Greek Cypriots from their homes and property. This bill puts in place a process by which the property illegally taken in the northern-occupied area of Cyprus can be returned to its rightful owners. “It is unacceptable that Turkey would exclude U.S. nationals from claiming their own property,” said Grimm. “I am proud to stand in support of the Cypriot-Americans who have suffered this grave injustice by cosponsoring this bill to help them restore the property that was illegally taken from them. I have a strong record of supporting America’s Greek/Cypriot community and will proudly continue to strengthen that record through my work in Congress.” Rep. Grimm has a strong record of supporting issues important to the people of Greece and the Republic of Cyprus. He is an active member of the Congressional Hellenic Issues Caucus and will be traveling to Cyprus in August 2011 with representatives from the Greek/Cypriot community from his district in Staten Island and Brooklyn. Rep. Grimm has also shown his support by cosponsoring the following pro-Greek/Cypriot legislation: • H.Res.306: Urging the Republic of Turkey to safeguard its Christian heritage and to return confiscated church properties.• H.Res.180: Urging Turkey to respect the rights and religious freedoms of the Ecumenical Patriarchate.• H.Res.179: Recognizing and appreciating the historical significance and the heroic human endeavor and sacrifice of the people of Crete during World War II and commending the PanCretan Association of America.• H.R. 1337: To support efforts by the Department of State to strengthen the bilateral relationship with Greece.• H.Con.Res.54: Expressing the sense of the Congress that the Parthenon Marbles should be returned to Greece. Finally, Rep. Grimm has been very active in helping New York’s Greek community rebuild St. Nicholas Church, which was destroyed in the attacks on September 11th. Earlier this year, he sent letters to New York Governor Andrew Cuomo and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie urging the governors to help facilitate negotiations to rebuild the church in lower Manhattan. ###
07.25.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Representative Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) testified before the House Veterans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health on his bill entitled the Veterans Dog Training Therapy Act (H.R. 198), clearing a key hurdle in moving the legislation forward. The bill establishes a program that allows veterans to address post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) through therapeutic dog training and handling. The trained service dogs are then given to physically disabled veterans to help them with their daily activities. “As a veteran, I have seen firsthand the mental and physical wounds inflicted on our brave men and women in combat, which is why this issue is so important to me,” said Rep. Grimm. “This type of program that allows veterans to help veterans could have a tremendous impact in New York and throughout the nation in helping our servicemen assimilate back into everyday life. It was an honor to address the members of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee today, and I look forward to working with them to move the Veterans Dog Training Therapy Act forward.” H.R. 198 establishes a pilot program in three to five VA medical centers over a five-year period to educate veterans with mental health conditions in the art and science of assistance dog training and handling. It also calls for an assessment of the benefits of addressing the symptoms of PTSD through a therapeutic medium of dog training, and it encourages the use of shelter dogs, when appropriate. The program’s combined approach creates an opportunity to save money by offering an alternative treatment to PTSD while at the same time benefitting physically disabled veterans in need of assistance. In addition, with veteran suicide rates so high and more servicemen and women developing PTSD, this bill meets a crucial need for additional treatment methods. The bill has bipartisan support with 84 cosponsors. It has been endorsed by AMVETS, VetsFirst, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Paws for Purple Hearts, the Humane Society of the United States, the Military Association of New York, and the Consortium for Citizens with Disabilities. Congressman Grimm is a U.S. Marine combat veteran who served in the Gulf War. ###
07.25.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-Staten Island/Brooklyn) issued the following statement on the death of General John M. Shalikashvili this past weekend: “I was deeply saddened to hear of the loss of General John M. Shalikashvili. As a U.S. Marine, I have the sincerest admiration for his service to our country, and as an American, I am truly inspired by his accomplishments. Polish-born, he came to America, fought in the U.S. military, rose through the ranks to become a four-star general, and ultimately became the first immigrant to be appointed as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. General Shalikashvili’s life is a true testament to all who seek to achieve the American dream. He will certainly be missed, and his accomplishments will never be forgotten. On behalf of the Polish-American community in my district of Staten Island and Brooklyn, I send my deepest condolences to the Shalikashvili family and will keep them in my thoughts and prayers.”
07.22.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the debt ceiling negotiations: “Tonight, President Obama made it clear that tax hikes and scare tactics against our nation's seniors are more important than working with Republican leaders to reach a deal on the debt crisis. It is blatantly obvious that this president is not serious about leading our nation out of debt and America’s taxpayers are going to pay the price. “President Obama and Senate Democrats should stop playing politics and rethink Cut, Cap, and Balance - the right plan for the country. From day one, I have advocated for a plan that cuts spending, balances the budget, and does not raise taxes on America’s families and job creators. I am confident that we will be able to work out a deal with the Senate encompassing those principles in order to avoid default and to put America back on the path to economic prosperity.” ###
07.20.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - The Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) has launched its 10th Anniversary Challenge that will expand and fund service activities for the September 11th Day of Service and Remembrance. In 2009, the September 11th National Day of Service and Remembrance was created, and last week CNCS launched the challenge to encourage nonprofit, faith-based, educational and business organizations to organize and participate in service projects on the 9/11 weekend. “No one knows better than New Yorkers the importance of coming together and lending a hand in a time of tragedy,” said Rep. Grimm. “As we approach the 10th anniversary of 9/11, I encourage everyone to participate in the September 11th National Day of Service and Remembrance and would like to make Staten Island and Brooklyn’s volunteer organizations aware of this opportunity through the CNCS. As we remember the loved ones lost on 9/11, we must also remember the compassion and unity that filled our communities in its aftermath as we continue to give back to those who need it most.” CNCS will award up to $500,000 through approximately 10-15 awards ranging from $10,000 to $100,000 to organizations that achieve the highest level of volunteer engagement. Service activities should honor those who died and those who have served because of the tragedies of 9/11, and include a time of reflection and remembrance. Projects should be implemented on or near September 11, 2011 and clearly be linked to the observance of the September 11th National Day of Service and Remembrance. The deadline for submissions is July 29, 2011. More information can be found at http://sept11day.challenge.gov/. ###
07.19.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the passage of the Cut, Cap, and Balance Act: “I voted for the Cut, Cap, and Balance Act because it is a sensible plan to curb our rising debt and get our economy back on track, in a way that will stimulate job growth. Everyone from the American people to Secretary Geithner to Moody’s & S&P has sent Congress an urgent warning that we must reduce our debt to avoid an economic catastrophe. House Republicans received that message loud and clear, which is why today we passed a responsible plan to cut $5.8 trillion over the next 10 years, cap spending under 20%, and balance the budget with a balanced budget amendment. For those keeping score, the House has now passed two plans to cut spending and President Obama has put forth none. Americans are sick and tired of this president’s baseless rhetoric and scare tactics against our nation’s seniors. They want and deserve leadership – leadership that will tackle the tough challenges and bring real solutions. There is no silver bullet to jump start the economy, but dealing with the nation’s debt is a big part of the answer by instilling confidence in the U.S. economy and ultimately creating more jobs.”
07.18.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-S.I./Brooklyn) issued the following statement on President Obama’s veto threat on “Cut, Cap, and Balance”: “President Obama has stated, ‘We don’t need a constitutional amendment to do our jobs.’ Why not? What’s the downside? Since President Obama has taken office, the national debt has increased by $3.7 trillion and continues to grow, yet the president has proposed no plan to stop it. Clearly, this administration is still sitting ringside to the fight on Washington’s addiction to spending. I refuse to throw in the towel just yet and that is why I have joined House Republicans in putting forth a sensible plan to ‘Cut, Cap, and Balance’ our budget. In threatening to veto the ‘Cut, Cap, Balance’ plan today, President Obama has once again shown his unwillingness to make the tough decisions needed to cut spending, shrink the size of government, and put America back on a path to economic prosperity for current and future generations to come. If President Obama is really serious about getting our fiscal crisis under control, he will stop the rhetoric that is dividing this nation and either put forth a plan of his own that can be reviewed and scored by the CBO or embrace the balanced budget amendment that this country desperately needs. If the president is sincere about avoiding a catastrophe, he will stop scaring our nation’s seniors and, in a word, lead – something Congressional Republicans have and continue to do.”
07.13.2011	BROOKLYN, NY - Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-Brooklyn, S.I.) issued the following statement on the tragic death of Leibby Kletzky: “My heart goes out to the Kletzky family for the horrific loss of their son Leibby Kletzky, whose life and innocence was tragically taken at such a young age. They have just been through every parent’s worst nightmare, and I send my deepest and sincerest condolences. It is unthinkable that we live in a world where our children cannot walk safely down the streets in their own neighborhood, but we must not let this tragedy cause us to live in fear or lose our faith in God. As a community, we must come together to mourn and grow stronger in our faith if we are to move beyond this tragedy and commemorate the joy and spirit of Leibby Kletzky. I pray for the Kletzky family and for all who have suffered from this heartbreaking loss.” ###
07.12.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) voted for H.R. 2417, the Better Use of Light Bulbs (BULB) Act. The bill protects Americans’ right to choose the light bulbs of their choice and protects consumers against government mandates that force them to use bulbs that contain mercury. “It’s no secret that the government has grown way too big, but when it starts limiting our choice in light bulbs, you’ve got to be kidding me! Americans don’t need a nanny state telling them what to put in their lamps. They’re quite capable of making that decision on their own.” The bill has two key provisions: 1) It eliminates the efficiency standards slated to take effect in 2012 that will reduce lighting options for consumers and favor certain bulb technologies; and 2) It states that no federal, state, or local lighting requirement can mandate the use of bulbs that contain mercury. The new light bulbs do increase energy efficiency, but they have been met with opposition due to their high cost, weak light, and dangers surrounding the mercury released when the bulbs break. “The government should not be picking winners and losers on this issue, especially when it comes at the expense of the taxpayer,” said Grimm. “In this economy, mandating that consumers buy expensive light bulbs is absurd. We all want to move towards energy efficient options, but it shouldn’t be through a mandate that breaks the banks of America’s hard-working taxpayers.” ###
07.12.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Representative Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) was joined by House Financial Services Capital Markets Subcommittee Chair Scott Garrett (R-NJ), Rep. John Campbell (R-CA), and Rep. Steve Stivers (R-OH) in introducing the Whistleblower Improvement Act of 2011 (H.R. 2483). The bill improves provisions in Dodd-Frank by preserving the internal reporting standards used by companies to catch criminal activity early, before it spirals out of control. “If we are serious about putting a stop to fraud and wrongdoing, we should continue encouraging companies to remain vigilant,” said Rep. Grimm. “For decades, companies have maintained effective internal reporting mechanisms to help them stop criminal activity early with the help of tips from anonymous whistleblowers. The overreaching provisions in Dodd-Frank make these internal programs obsolete, open the floodgates of claims to an already overburdened SEC, and delay action on escalating crimes within a company. The Whistleblower Improvement Act corrects these provisions in Dodd-Frank that have the potential to cause more harm than good.” When Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) was enacted in 2002, it mandated that companies have an internal mechanism to report criminal activity, such as an anonymous tip-line. These internal compliance programs are important as they protect shareholder and investor interests and can save time and money by stopping a problem before it causes excessive damage. Dodd-Frank undermines these internal programs by incentivizing whistleblowers to go directly to the SEC, so H.R. 2483 makes internal reporting a prerequisite for such a reward. The bill does carve out common sense exceptions, allowing whistleblowers to report directly to the SEC in situations when the wrongdoing is conducted by compliance officers or the highest level of management. It also makes an exception for whistleblowers reporting on activity in a company that does not have a robust internal reporting mechanism in place. These exceptions help protect the whistleblower from retaliation, as well as prevent an investigation from being compromised. Under Dodd-Frank, whistleblowers are guaranteed a payout of 10%-30% in claims that lead to successful civil or criminal penalties exceeding $1 million. This provides an incentive for whistleblowers to allow a criminal act to go unreported in order to increase the penalty to a level that would bring in a reward. It also can cause an influx of frivolous claims from those seeking financial gain, causing the SEC to become overwhelmed. This bill changes the range from 0% to 30%, and thus drops the guarantee. Lastly, Dodd-Frank allows those culpable, but not criminally charged, to receive a reward. Rep. Grimm’s bill changes the rules, so that someone guilty of wrongdoing who later becomes a whistleblower cannot benefit from his or her own malfeasants. On May 11, 2011, the House Financial Services Committee held a hearing on a draft of Rep. Grimm’s bill. The draft has been modified to incorporate concerns expressed in the hearing, and the version introduced today has eliminated the provision on contingency fees from the original draft. ###
07.08.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY ) issued the following statement in response to today’s report that unemployment has risen to 9.2%: “Today’s job numbers are a sad and upsetting reminder that President Obama’s spending-driven policies simply are not working, in fact they are failing miserably. American taxpayers are picking up the tab for a trillion dollar stimulus, our small businesses are burdened with over-regulation, and our nation is faced with massive debt. When will the administration realize this is not a formula for job creation? More government does not create jobs, just a more costly bureaucracy. My neighbors in Staten Island and Brooklyn want to get back to work, and getting government out of the way is part of the solution. That is why I remain committed to supporting job-creating policies that reduce government spending, simplify our tax code, and reduce burdensome regulations that have kept our businesses from creating jobs.The American people have made it clear that they are fed up. It is time President Obama and my Democratic colleagues also realize that business as usual is not working, and join in creating real solutions for job creation. Building a better America should not be a partisan battle. We need less politics and more common sense if we’re going save our country from financial ruin and restore a thriving economy for our children and grandchildren. We have all the tools and resources we need to grow our economy and re-build this nation: the relentless work ethic of the American workforce, innovation and the entrepreneurial spirit and courage to succeed. What America needs is leadership, leadership with the political will to do what is right above what is politically expedient.” ###
07.07.2011	Washington, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed an amendment by Congressman Jon Runyan (NJ-3) and Congressman Michael Grimm (NY-13), which seeks to exempt those soldiers who travel back and forth from theatre of operations from paying excess commercial airline baggage fees. The amendment was offered on the House floor and was submitted as part of 2012 Defense Appropriations bill (H.R. 2219). “Getting gouged by airlines while headed into combat is completely unacceptable,” said Grimm. “Every day, our brave men and women in uniform put their lives on the line on the battlefields, and they deserve our sincerest gratitude, not a bill for excessive baggage fees. As a Marine who served in combat, I personally thank Congressman Runyan for offering this amendment and I am proud to have introduced it with him.” “When I learned that soldiers returning from deployment were forced to pay for bags they were under orders to carry on a commercial airline, I was outraged,” said Runyan. “We owe it to our brave soldiers that when we deploy them and their necessary equipment, they should not worry about what it will cost to ship it. I appreciate the House’s support to clear any ambiguity and ensure this will never occur again.” The Runyan-Grimm amendment was crafted after news broke about 36 reservists returning from Afghanistan paid more than $2,800 in out-of-pocket baggage expenses because they carried a fourth bag. To correct this in the future, the amendment language states the following: “…None of the funds in this Act may be used to procure air transportation from a commercial air carrier for a member of the Armed Forces who is traveling under orders to deploy to or return from an overseas contingency operation under terms that allow the carrier to charge the member fees for checked baggage other than for bags weighing more than 80 pounds or bags in excess of four per individual.” Final passage of HR 2219 is expected later this evening. # # # #
07.06.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY), along with the entire New York House delegation, introduced legislation to name the post office at 45 Bay Street on Staten Island the “Sergeant Angel Mendez Post Office.” Sgt. Mendez was serving as a U.S. Marine in the Vietnam War when he was killed in combat while saving the life of his Platoon Commander, Lieutenant Ronald D. Castille. The post office to honor the fallen soldier is appropriately located next to an Armed Forces recruiting center. In addition to his legislation, Rep. Grimm has been involved in an ongoing effort to posthumously reward Mendez’s heroism with the Medal of Honor - a request that has been denied by the Navy. “Words cannot describe the level of selfless heroism displayed by Sgt. Angel Mendez in sacrificing his life to save another,” said Rep. Grimm. “‘The Sergeant Angel Mendez Post Office’ will memorialize his heroism and serve as constant reminder of the ultimate sacrifice that he and all our nation’s heroes have made for our country and for others. As a fellow Marine, I am honored to lead this effort, along with my New York colleagues, to ensure that Sgt. Mendez’s legacy will live on in Staten Island.” Angel Mendez was born to Puerto Rican-American parents, but was raised in the Mission of the Immaculate Virgin, an orphanage located in Mount Loretto in Staten Island. After graduating high school in 1964 Angel volunteered to join the Marine Corps during the Vietnam War, and was assigned to Company F, 2nd Battalion, 7th Marines, 1st Marine Division as a Corporal. During a search and destroy mission on March 16, 1967, Mendez and his company were engaged in an intense firefight with the Viet Cong. With half of his platoon trapped under enemy fire and Platoon Commander, Lieutenant Ronald D. Castille seriously wounded and unable to move to safety, Mendez volunteered to lead a squad to help his fellow Marines. Mendez shielded Lt. Castille with his own body as he dressed the wound and attempted to carry the Platoon Commander to safety when he was shot in the shoulder. Mendez was shielding Castille and the other Marines with his own body when he was shot again and mortally wounded. Lt. Castille survived the attack and became district attorney of Philadelphia and later chief justice of the Pennsylvania Supreme Court. Mendez was posthumously promoted to Sergeant and awarded the Navy Cross. ###
06.16.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Michael G. Grimm (R,C-S.I./Brooklyn), Joseph Crowley (D-Queens/Bronx), and Eliot Engel (D-Bronx/Rockland/Westchester) have introduced the Improving Physician Access in Teaching Hospitals (PATH) Act to prevent a looming doctor shortage. This bipartisan bill phases in much-needed residency slots to participating teaching hospitals, as well as gives tax incentives to practicing physicians who provide opportunities for resident rotations in their practices. “As more baby boomers age into Medicare, the growing physician shortage will limit access to care for New York’s seniors,” said Rep. Grimm. “Our bipartisan legislation reverses this trend, not only by increasing the number of slots in teaching hospitals for aspiring physicians, but by creating incentives for practicing physicians to take residents under their wings. America has the world’s best and brightest physicians, and we should expand that tradition for our seniors, and for all Americans, who deserve accessible, high-quality healthcare.” “With a physician shortage on our nation’s doorstep, it is critical that we take steps now to grow this essential workforce. Physician shortages put the health of New Yorkers at risk by limiting access to fundamental health care basics and preventative care measures like regular check-ups and vaccinations,” said Rep. Crowley. “That is why I have worked tirelessly to address the issue of the looming physician shortage in this country and am pleased to work with my New York colleagues, Reps. Grimm and Engel, on this latest effort. New York is home to some of the finest teaching hospitals in the world, and we must do all we can to ensure our great state and our country continue to produce the finest doctors to meet our nation’s needs.” “With the aging baby boomer population, our nation is facing a critical shortage of physicians. As a senior member of the Health Subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, I am proud to join with my colleagues Reps. Grimm and Crowley in introducing legislation to expand Medicare-supported residency slots to teaching hospitals with an emphasis on primary care,” said Rep. Engel. “This legislation will go a long way to invest critical resources in the physician workforce and preserve access to care for New Yorkers and patients across the country.” New York trains one out of every seven physicians nationwide and its hospitals are among the largest employers throughout the state, supporting 686,610 jobs statewide. Its hospitals generate $107.9 billion for state and local economies each year - 9.4% of gross state product. The Improving PATH Act will help keep New York’s hospitals on safe financial ground while training physicians, and preserve and protect a high quality workforce to serve patients in New York and throughout the country. The Improving PATH Act phases in 1,000 additional residency slots each year over three years. This “phase in” method will help address our nation’s physician shortage in a difficult fiscal climate. The bill also provides a small business tax credit for physician practices that allow residents to rotate-in their practices. The tax credit is a gesture to physicians, recognizing they are making a contribution to their profession, preventing a workforce shortage, and functioning as a small business in a difficult economic environment. Overall, twenty-two states have reported physician workforce shortages and without additional measures, the U.S. will be faced with a physician shortage of 90,000 physicians by the end of the decade. With the Medicare population growing and more people seeking care, the demand for services will increase. The Improving PATH Act addresses the problem to prevent a doctor to patient ratio that will only grow worse without action. ###
06.03.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-NY) is joined by Ways and Means Select Revenue Measures Subcommittee Chairman Patrick Tiberi (R-OH), Rep. Phil Roe, M.D. (R-TN), and twenty-two other House Republican colleagues in introducing H.R. 2092, legislation to repeal the regressive 10% tax on tanning services. The tax was enacted as part of President Obama’s healthcare reform in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA). “America’s small businesses and hard-working middle class should not have to foot the bill for Obamacare,” said Rep. Grimm. “The healthcare law unfairly imposes onerous taxes, like the tan tax, on our nation’s business owners and consumers, slowing economic growth and costing jobs. I made a promise to repeal Obamacare, which is why I’m pleased to introduce legislation to repeal the tan tax and eliminate one more job-killing and economy-crushing provision in the healthcare law.” “The Democrats’ health care law breaks President Obama’s promise to not raise taxes on those making less than $200,000 a year. During a hearing in the Ways and Means Committee a member of the Administration even joked about this measure not being a tax,” said Rep. Tiberi. “American small business owners, the drivers of our economy, don’t think it’s a laughing matter. This unfair punishment of small businesses and small businesses must be repealed.” “Placing a tax on a service to pay for a trillion dollar entitlement program is misguided policy,” said Rep. Roe. “This tax is another example of how bad the health care law actually is and why it should be repealed. No one should face another tax increase in this economic climate.” This new 10 % tax on tanning services could hit an estimated 18,000 small businesses, which employ 120,000 people nationwide. In fact, the recession paired with the tax has already taken a toll on industry, resulting in business closings and lost jobs. Since 2009, more than 3,100 businesses representing 15% of the industry have closed nationwide resulting in approximately 24,000 lost jobs in the private sector. While supporters of the government take-over of health care lash out on a campaign to tax “millionaires and billionaires,” the tanning tax clearly effects small businesses and hardworking taxpayers from all income levels and has the greatest impact on the middle class. Overall, the tan tax is one of many small business taxes jeopardizing the economic recovery of our nation’s job creators. Other original cosponsors of H.R. 2092 include Reps. Todd Young, Frank Guinta, Steve Stivers, Tim Walberg, Thaddeus McCotter, Marlin Stutzman, Marsha Blackburn, Brett Guthrie, Jason Chaffetz, Lynn Westmoreland, Tim Huelskamp, Richard Hanna, Kevin Yoder, Mike Pompeo, Lynn Jenkins, Bill Huizenga, Lee Terry, Sam Graves, Rick Crawford, Jeff Denham, and Reid Ribble. H.R. 2092 is endorsed by the National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB), the National Taxpayer Union (NTU), and Americans for Tax Reform (ATR). ###
06.03.2011	“This week the Case-Shiller Index indicated that our housing market has officially double dipped, yesterday Moody’s threatened to downgrade the U.S.’s AAA rating if Congress fails to address the looming debt crisis, and today our jobs numbers show that unemployment has risen to 9.1%. This dismal news is a red flag that President Obama’s spending-driven policies are simply not working. The snail’s pace of economic growth is not creating jobs and Americans are suffering. Republicans have put forth a strong roadmap for job creation that includes dramatic spending cuts, a simpler and fairer tax code, investment in our own energy resources, and a reduction in the burdensome regulations that have kept our businesses from creating jobs. We must change course immediately, or the consequences down the road will be far graver than the reality we’re facing now. I urge President Obama and Senate Democrats to wake up to reality, abandon their failed policies, and join House Republicans in making the tough decisions needed to turn our country around and create jobs. Our economic situation is bigger than party politics. We must work together if we’re going to save our country from financial ruin and restore a thriving economy for our children and grandchildren.” ###
05.31.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY ) issued the following statement: “Today, I joined my House Republican colleagues in successfully voting down a bill to unconditionally raise the debt ceiling. There’s no question that a failure to raise the debt limit and defaulting on our obligations could have detrimental consequences. However, it would be even more irresponsible to raise the limit on our nation’s maxed-out credit card without also putting an end to the reckless spending. We cannot allow America to continue down this road to ruin by spending money we don’t have. The out-of-control spending has got to stop. I made a promise to my constituents that I would vote to cut spending, reduce the deficit, and get our economy back on track. In honoring that promise, I will only support a debt ceiling increase if it is paired with the deep and significant spending cuts that are necessary to turn our country around and systemic reforms to stop the addiction this government has to spending. The hard-working families in Staten Island and Brooklyn have tightened their belts as far as they can and now the Congress needs to follow their lead.” ###
05.24.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY ) issued the following statement: “It was a privilege to be a part of Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu’s address to the joint session of Congress – an event that hasn’t happened since 1996. In his speech, the prime minister stressed many of our shared objectives - promoting democracy, combating terrorism, and bringing peace to the region. In doing so, he demonstrated a remarkable command of balancing the message that the hearts of Israelis desire peace, but not at the expense of their security. Despite a difference in opinion, he was respectful to President Obama, while standing decisively strong to clearly define that the peace process has clear limitations with respect to Israel's borders and the ability of the Jewish state to defend itself. He is a true statesman who rose to the occasion, having the respect of all who were present, and whom the Israelis must be honored to have as their leader. I wholeheartedly thank Prime Minister Netanyahu for addressing the Congress today, and promise always to stand with Israel in support of policies that strengthen our relationship and bring us closer to achieving our common goals of liberty, stability, and peace.” Rep. Michael Grimm is a co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus and the Chairman of the Republican Policy Committee’s Task Force on Foreign Policy. ###
05.20.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY ) issued the following statement: “Yesterday, Prime Minister Netanyahu showed true leadership in his meeting with President Obama by standing up for Israel. Like any good leader, he is willing to make concessions to achieve our shared goal of lasting peace, but not at the expense of his nation’s security. I applaud the prime minister for standing firm against a return to the �?indefensible’ 1967 borders and for his refusal to negotiate with a Hamas-backed nation. It is against U.S. policy to negotiate with terrorists, and it’s hypocritical to suggest that our allies do otherwise. As a member of Congress, I will never support any policy that renders more vulnerable or divides the sovereign Jewish state of Israel.” Rep. Michael Grimm is a co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus and the Chairman of the Republican Policy Committee’s Task Force on Foreign Policy.
05.19.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY ) issued the following statement: “Today, I was extremely disappointed that President Obama failed to take a stand for Israel in his speech. He failed to mention Israel’s right to exist as a Jewish state, and failed to explain why the U.S. continues to give aid to a Palestinian Authority now aligned with Hamas. Instead, he called on Israel to jeopardize its safety and security by returning to the 1967 borders. At a time when we need a close ally like Israel to help us stabilize and bring peace to the Middle East, I find it reprehensible to suggest a plan that makes Israel more vulnerable. We all want to see to see a peaceful resolution to the conflict, but pressuring Israel to change its borders is certainly not the way to do it. At this time of unrest throughout the region, we must not turn our backs on our friends. It is important that the U.S. stands with the Israelis, not against them. Unfortunately, President Obama’s proposal doesn’t come close.” Rep. Michael Grimm is a co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus and the Chairman of the Republican Policy Committee’s Task Force on Foreign Policy. ###
05.13.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY ) issued the following statement: “New York City Police Commissioner Ray Kelly has once again exemplified unprecedented leadership in yesterday’s arrest of two men suspected of plotting to blow up a NYC synagogue. Since 9/11 the NYPD has played and intricate role in keeping New Yorkers safe during our most dangerous times - a true testament of Commissioner Kelly's exemplary leadership and professionalism. His unique and diverse skill set, from his service in the Marine corps to his tenure in Washington to his extensive law enforcement experience, puts Ray Kelly at the top of the most elite lists of qualified candidates. As President Obama begins seeking a new FBI Director, I urge him to choose the best man for the job: Commissioner Ray Kelly. As a former FBI agent, I know that this position requires an exceptional individual in order to keep Americans safe at a time when the United States remains on high alert. Ray Kelly is tough, he’s a fighter, and he’ll get the job done better than anyone I know. Now more than ever, our country needs a strong leader in the FBI who will stand up for the safety and freedoms of all Americans. I wholeheartedly believe that the best person for that job is Commissioner Ray Kelly. ###
05.11.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Congressman Michael Grimm’s (R,C-NY) draft legislation on whistleblower reform will be the subject of a hearing in the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Capital Markets, entitled “Legislative Proposals to Address the Negative Consequences of the Dodd-Frank Whistleblower Provisions.” Rep. Grimm’s proposal seeks to improve provisions in Dodd-Frank, by preserving the internal reporting standards used by companies as mandated by Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX), to prevent those involved in wrong-doing from gaining rewards, and by removing incentives for bogus or frivolous claims to be reported to the SEC. “For decades, companies have maintained effective internal reporting mechanisms to catch criminal activity early, helping them protect shareholder and company interests,” said Rep. Grimm. “The changes in Dodd-Frank open the floodgates to frivolous claims and costly penalties by allowing whistleblowers to go directly to the SEC. Companies can’t effectively address a problem if they don’t know about it. The provisions in Dodd-Frank will certainly keep them in the dark.” When SOX was enacted in 2002, it mandated that companies have some type of mechanism to report criminal activity, such as an anonymous tip-line. However, most companies already had such procedures in place, as having an effective compliance program is not just good governance, but is recognized as a way to receive more lenient treatment by the federal government when criminal charges are brought up. Internal compliance programs are important as they protect shareholder and company interests and can save money and time by stopping a problem before it escalates out of hand, causing more damage to the company. Dodd-Frank undermines the effectiveness of these programs by incentivizing whistleblowers to go directly to the SEC, and does not require that the SEC notify the company once a claim has been made. This can lead to the escalation of a problem that could have been quickly addressed internally. Rep. Grimm’s proposal makes internal reporting a prerequisite for reward, requiring it before, or simultaneously with, reporting to the SEC. Dodd-Frank also allows those culpable, but not criminally charged, to receive a reward. The Grimm proposal changes the rules, so that someone guilty of wrong-doing who later becomes a whistleblower cannot benefit from his or her own malfeasants. Under Dodd-Frank, whistleblowers also have nothing to lose, as they are guaranteed a payout of 10%-30% in claims that lead to successful civil or criminal penalties exceeding $1 million. This can lead to potential whistleblowers allowing a criminal act to go unreported while waiting for the amount to increase to a level that would bring in a reward. It also can cause an influx of frivolous claims by those seeking financial gain, overwhelming the SEC. Rep. Grimm’s proposal addresses the incentive issue by dropping the guarantee and changing the range from 0% to 30%. Rep. Grimm’s proposal is in “draft” form and will be introduced once feedback from the hearing is considered and incorporated. ###
05.04.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, a bill introduced by Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) entitled the Business Risk Mitigation and Price Stabilization Act of 2011 (H.R. 1610) passed the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Capital Markets. The bill exempts true derivatives end-users from having to post margin as required under Dodd-Frank. True end-users are firms and companies that use derivatives to manage their risks, not to speculate. Exempting them from posting margin will free up capital that will help maintain low and stable prices for consumers, create jobs, and keep American companies competitive. One amendment offered by Subcommittee Chairman Scott Garrett (R-NJ) was accepted to clarify that the bill applies to counterparties “using swaps to hedge or mitigate commercial risk.” “This bill is about helping American companies making American products create American jobs.” said Rep. Grimm. “Dodd-Frank over-reached when it included true end-users who simply use derivatives to hedge risk and stabilize prices, and had nothing to do with the financial crisis. It imposes barriers to job creation, which is why we have to remove the onerous margin requirements imposed on companies and firms. My legislation exempts companies in order to free up capital that can be used to create jobs, keep prices low for American consumers, and keep our companies competitive in the global economy.” Forcing true end-users to post margin can have several negative consequences: 1) the costs of hedging could be become so high that they stop hedging, resulting in a detrimental rise in prices for consumers; 2) capital will be restricted that would otherwise be used for job creation or reinvestment to make American companies more competitive in the global economy; and 3) high costs of hedging could drive business overseas to foreign derivatives markets. According to the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Economic Analysis, every $1 billion in capital spending creates approximately 19,643 jobs. In a study done by Keybridge Research, a 3% margin requirement on OTC derivatives could be expected to reduce capital spending by $5.1 to $6.7 billion per year, leading to a loss of 100,000 to 130,000 jobs.The bill will have to pass both the House Financial Services Committee and the House Agriculture Committee before consideration on the House floor. ###
05.02.2011	Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the death of Osama Bin Laden: “The death of Osama Bin Laden is a long-awaited justice for the American people and the fulfillment of a promise made in the wreckage of the World Trade Center. While this may bring some closure to that horrific attack on U.S. soil, the memory and mission endures. I applaud our troops for their bravery and relentless commitment to this operation and their ongoing efforts in the war on terror throughout the globe, particularly in Afghanistan and Iraq. Today we are reminded of the resilience of the American people and the sacrifice of those lost on 9/11 and in our armed forces. Justice has been served. God Bless America." Rep. Michael Grimm served as a U.S. Marine in Operation Desert Storm and was a first responder on 9/11. ###
04.28.2011	“Poland has been a long time ally of the United States, going above and beyond the call of duty with its shared commitment to democracy and its willingness to send troops to fight alongside American soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan. In New York City, we are privileged to be the home to so many Polish immigrants and Polish-Americans whose warm culture and heritage we have welcomed and embraced. All in all, Poland has been a close friend and ally of the United States and should be afforded every opportunity available to other EU nations whose citizens travel to and from our country with ease. As the only Republican Member of Congress from New York City, I am proud to say that I am a cosponsor of the Secure Travel and Counterterrorism Partnership Act of 2011 and fully support Poland’s entry into the visa waiver program.�? ###
04.18.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - On Friday, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) introduced the Business Risk Mitigation and Price Stabilization Act of 2011 (H.R. 1610), a bill to exempt true derivatives end-users from having to post margin as required under Dodd-Frank. True end-users are firms and companies that use derivatives to manage their risks, not to speculate. Exempting them from posting margin will free up capital that will help maintain low and stable prices for consumers, create jobs, and keep American companies competitive. This exemption is a common sense example of getting government out of the way of the free market enterprise that helps make this country exceptional and emphasizes how big government and onerous regulations are the problem and not the solution. “If we want to improve the economy and create jobs, we have to remove the barriers to job creation, such as the unnecessary margin posting requirements imposed on companies and firms,” said Rep. Grimm. “Dodd-Frank over-reached when it included true end-users who simply use derivatives to hedge risk and stabilize prices, and had nothing to do with the financial crisis. My legislation exempts them in order to free up capital that can be used to create jobs, keep prices low for American consumers, and keep our companies competitive in the global economy.” Forcing true end-users to post margin can have several negative consequences: 1) the costs of hedging could be become so high that they stop hedging, resulting in a detrimental rise in prices for consumers; 2) capital will be restricted that would otherwise be used for job creation or reinvestment to make American companies more competitive in the global economy; and 3) high costs of hedging could drive business overseas to foreign derivatives markets. According to the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Economic Analysis, every $1 billion in capital spending creates approximately 19,643 jobs. In a study done by Keybridge Research, a 3% margin requirement on OTC derivatives could be expected to reduce capital spending by $5.1 to $6.7 billion per year, leading to a loss of 100,000 to 130,000 jobs. The legislation is scheduled to be marked-up on May 3 by the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Capital Markets of which Rep. Grimm is a member. ###
04.18.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) has announced the appointment of Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) to the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum’s Holocaust Memorial Council. Rep. Grimm is one of five House members selected to the council. “It is truly an honor to be selected to join the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council,” said Grimm. “As horrific as the events of the Holocaust were, it is important that we never forget the atrocities of the past, so that we do not repeat them in the future. The museum’s location among the monuments on the National Mall is a sobering reminder of the freedoms we are so fortunate to have today. I commend the efforts of the Holocaust Memorial Museum in keeping the stories and memories alive of the Jewish and non-Jewish people who have suffered at the hands of Nazi tyranny, and I look forward to my role as a member of this distinguished council.” The U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum is a public-private partnership that was established by Congress on October 7, 1980. It opened its doors in Washington, DC on April 26, 1993 with the mission to advance and disseminate knowledge about the Holocaust, preserve the memory of those who suffered, and encourage reflection upon the moral and spiritual questions raised by those events. The museum is overseen by the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. The council includes 55 private citizens appointed by the U.S. president, five members of the Senate and five members of the House of Representatives, and three ex-officio members from the Departments of State, Education, and Interior. Rep. Grimm is a co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus and Chairman of the Republican Policy Committee’s Task Force on Foreign Policy.
04.15.2011	Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the passage of Chairman Paul Ryan’s FY2012 budget proposal: “Today, I took another stand for fiscal responsibility by voting for Chairman Paul Ryan’s FY2012 budget proposal. Even though there are many details that need to be worked through to make this plan a fair and viable solution to the debt crisis this country imminently faces, it exemplifies the strong and bold leadership this nation so desperately yearns for. Since President Obama has taken office just over two years ago, our debt has gone up by over $3.6 trillion – a consequence of spending too much, not taxing too little. The Republican plan says enough is enough and puts an end to Washington’s addiction to spending, in direct contrast to President Obama’s proposal that tries to tax our way out of debt. Democrats are attempting to use scare tactics and class warfare to distract from the reality that we simply can't continue to spend money that we don't have, borrowing much of it from the Chinese. The House Republican plan provides a real solution to get our economy back on track by cutting $6.2 trillion in spending over the next 10 years and reforming Medicare and Medicaid so that they can continue providing quality care for future generations. This plan honors my word to protect today's seniors and thus the Medicare reforms do not apply to those 55 and older but preserves care for the future by avoiding bankruptcy estimated by the CBO as only 9 years away. Taxing families and businesses to pay for failing entitlement programs will only continue to stifle economic growth by sending tax dollars to the government instead of into the pockets of hard-working Americans and ultimately back into the economy. I am proud to support the Republican budget proposal that cuts trillions in spending and calls for sustainable reforms- without raising taxes – to create jobs and get our country back on a path to prosperity for our children and grandchildren.” # # #
04.11.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Representatives Michael G. Grimm (R,C-S.I./ Brooklyn) and Timothy Bishop (D-Patchogue) introduce legislation to provide tax relief to over 30 million Americans, and over 1 million homeowners throughout New York. First introduced by Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), the Homeowner Tax Fairness Act (H.R. 1399/S.22), would allow all homeowners that pay property taxes to deduct the full amount from their federal income taxes. Under current law, only taxpayers using itemized deductions may deduct the amount. This bill expands the deduction to homeowners using a standard deduction. “This bill is more than just lip service, but something that hardworking families will feel in their pockets,” said Rep. Grimm. “Property taxes in Staten Island and Brooklyn are not cheap, so it’s only fair that all homeowners have equal opportunity to benefit from savings offered by this tax deduction. I am pleased to introduce the Homeowner Tax Fairness Act and look forward to working with Congressman Bishop and Senator Gillibrand in passing this important bill for New York into law.” “All homeowners in New York and all high cost areas should benefit from a federal offset for their high property taxes,” said Rep. Bishop. “Tax policy should reflect America's vital interest in protecting and growing the middle class and I thank Rep. Grimm and Sen. Gillibrand for showing bipartisan leadership on this important issue.” “I know how hard families and seniors are struggling with the rising cost of property taxes,” said Senator Gillibrand. “Property taxes in nearly every part of New York are putting a financial strain on many families. We need to provide these families with some relief by allowing all homeowners, even those who don’t itemize deductions on their tax returns, to deduct the full cost of their property taxes. This is not a Democratic idea or a Republican idea – it is a good idea and we have to get it done this year.” The bill is estimated to save New York homeowners over $1 billion. ###
04.08.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on tonight’s agreement to prevent a government shutdown: “Tonight we prevented a government shutdown and made history by agreeing to a package that reduces more spending than ever before. I support this long-term resolution, which makes cuts, while ensuring the government stays open and our troops continue to receive the funding they deserve. We have just overcome a big hurdle that will allow us to focus on the real work we were sent here to do, such as making significant spending cuts, repealing Obamacare, reducing the deficit, and creating jobs. The short-term resolutions we’ve passed so far were simply roadblocks to a bigger end game. Now that we’ve cleared the smoke from those CRs, we can clearly and fully focus our attention on passing a budget that makes significant and measurable cuts, like the budget proposed by House Republicans to cut $6.2 trillion and reform the entitlements that are draining the economy. We made history tonight, but the fight is far from over. If we’re really going to turn our economy around and create a better future for our children and grandchildren, we must stop spending money we don’t have. I made a promise to the people of Staten Island and Brooklyn that I would cut spending and lower the deficit, and tonight’s agreement is a big step forward in honoring that promise.” ###
04.06.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on House Budget Chairman Paul Ryan’s budget proposal or “Path to Prosperity”: “Chairman Paul Ryan’s budget answers the call of the American people who sent us to Congress for a purpose: to stop the reckless spending, reduce our skyrocketing debt, and get our economy back on track by creating jobs. The Democrats have left the American people without direction for the past two years. I find it incomprehensible that they failed to put a budget together, failed to cut spending, and have failed to reduce the size of government. The only thing they’ve successfully offered the American people is more debt, doubt and despair. The “Path to Prosperity” is the kind of leadership Washington has been lacking. House Republicans will take the country in a new direction with a plan to cut $6.2 trillion over the next 10 years, making a measurable difference in the future of America. I made a promise on the campaign to take back our country for now and our future. This budget proposal fulfills that promise and repaves the road to economic prosperity for our children and grandchildren. The American people deserve the truth about our fiscal crisis and real solutions, not budget gimmicks from the Congress. They have earned the bold action taken in this budget - bold action that delivers results that matter in families’ daily lives. Grandparents should be able to look into their grandchildren’s eyes and imagine a better future. This budget restores my faith that we can all imagine a better future.”
04.04.2011	Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement: "I am completely appalled by the actions of Reverend Terry Jones, the pastor from Florida who burned the Koran. Not only is this an affront on the First Amendment rights of all Americans who wish to worship freely and peacefully, but it has now become a security threat to our troops overseas. I stand with General Petraeus in condemning this disrespectful and intolerant act that has led to violent protests in Afghanistan and the atrocious murders of at least twenty individuals, including UN employees who were there to serve the humanitarian needs of the people. My trip last month to Iraq and Afghanistan showed me that our troops are doing a phenomenal job in their efforts to rebuild these nations, so it is unfathomable that this pastor chose to commit a hateful act that tarnishes their reputation and puts a greater target on their backs. Burning a Koran is just as wrong as burning a Torah or a Bible, and I encourage us all to be tolerant and respectful of the religious beliefs of others."
04.04.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C–Brooklyn/Staten Island) is joined by Rep. Edolphus Towns (D-Brooklyn) in introducing the bipartisan H.R. 1266, the Fraudulent Prescription Prevention (FPP) Act, which will help combat the prescription drug abuse epidemic throughout Staten Island, Brooklyn and the nation. Rep. Grimm’s bill would establish a secure web portal for physicians and pharmacists across the country to properly record prescriptions electronically. This database would update in real-time to prevent “pharmacy shopping” and abuse by stolen prescription pads – a major source for drug abuse. The bill is also supported by Richmond and Kings County District Attorneys Daniel Donovan and Charles Hynes. “Abuse and addiction are on the rise and studies show there is virtually no community untouched by this problem,” said Rep. Grimm. “Unfortunately, Staten Island and Brooklyn are plagued with a huge prescription drug abuse epidemic, which is why I have become a leader in combating this growing problem. This is a big step forward to curtail a growing epidemic that has already claimed the lives of too many. I am hopeful that the FPP Act will also raise awareness of a serious problem facing the entire nation.” “I am proud to join Congressman Grimm in leading this effort to reduce the potential for abusing prescription drugs,” said Rep. Towns. “This is a growing problem in our nation and the Borough of Brooklyn, particularly among our youth. This legislation will give the DEA additional tools to help get this problem under control.” “The biggest challenge law enforcement agencies face in stemming the scourge of illegal street drugs is finding the supplier and cutting that source off,” said Richmond County D.A. Donovan. “But prescription painkillers are almost exclusively supplied by one government sanctioned institution: Pharmacies. By putting the onus on pharmacies to ensure that these highly addictive drugs do not get into the wrong hands, I believe Congressman Grimm’s legislation will help us achieve that goal.” “Prescription drug abuse, which is rising throughout the country at an alarming rate, poses a serious threat to the health and safety of our communities,” said Kings County D.A. Hynes. “It’s time for physicians, pharmacists, and law enforcement to work together to stem this pernicious tide. The Fraudulent Prescription Prevention Act of 2011, sponsored by Congressman Michael Grimm, will create a secure web portal and nationwide real-time database that will allow phony prescriptions to be accurately identified and tracked. This ‘smart-on-crime’ legislation will make cost-effective use of technology, and will ensure that prescription drug abuse crime is met with a strong, coordinated response. I applaud Rep. Grimm for this innovative effort to reduce drug crime and addiction.” "On behalf of all the families affected by drug addiction, I applaud Congressman Michael Grimm for his efforts in combating the prescription drug epidemic that is destroying so many young lives,” William Fusco, Executive Director, Dynamic Youth Community Inc. The national prescription database would update in real-time, allowing physicians and pharmacists to provide accurate information regarding a person’s purchasing of controlled substances, and specifically the pain medications like oxycodone, which is so prevalent among New York City’s youth. All DEA registered physicians and dispensers will be required to have an account on the DEA web portal, and use this web portal to record and report all prescribing and dispensing activities. The DEA administered web portal would allow them to communicate externally with other participants, including designated parties across state lines, regarding consumers purchasing of highly addictive controlled substances, while ensuring the patient’s privacy. The bill specifies that the web portal reporting requirements are only subject to schedule II and schedule III controlled substances. It also protects individual privacy by stating that personally identifiable information is only made available the Drug Enforcement Administration for the purpose of tracking abusers who purchase these drugs with a faulty prescription. In addition, this legislation authorizes existing funds to be appropriated from the Diversion Control Fee Account, making the web portal a cost-effective, deficit neutral way to detect and resolve the national drug abuse and addiction epidemic. Rep. Grimm is a member of the House Prescription Drug Abuse Caucus. ###
03.30.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C – NY) is adopting a rescue dog, with the help of the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS). The dog, named Sebastian, was one of more than 100 dogs rescued from a Missouri puppy mill by HSUS and Columbia Second Chance. Sebastian’s mother and her four young puppies were all found neglected and riddled with parasites and lice. Sebastian has since been nursed back to health and is ready to meet his new family today in Congressman Michael Grimm’s Washington, DC office. “I want to lead by example,” said Rep. Grimm. “That’s something I’ve always tried to do throughout my career in the Marine Corps, in the FBI, and as a Member of Congress. As a dog-lover who fully supports improving animal welfare, I couldn’t think of a better way to do that than by adopting a rescue dog. I thank the HSUS for all their help in making this possible and I look forward to giving Sebastian a great new home.” Rep. Grimm has already established himself as a champion for animals. His first bill Congress is the Veterans Dog Training Therapy Act (H.R. 198), which establishes a program that allows veterans to address post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) through therapeutic dog training and handling. The trained service dogs are then given to physically disabled veterans to help them with their daily activities. Rep. Grimm is former combat veteran who served as a Marine in Operation Desert Storm. The bill not only helps his fellow veterans, but is also dog-friendly by encouraging the use of shelter dogs when appropriate. In addition, Rep. Grimm is a cosponsor of Rep. Gerlach’s Puppy Uniform Protection and Safety Act (H.R. 835), a bill to crackdown on puppy mills and ensure that breeders meet standards that protect the health and safety of puppies. For more information on an animal adoption and how to stop illegal puppy mills, please visit the Humane Society’s website at: http://www.humanesociety.org/. ###
03.30.2011	Congressman Michael Grimm (R,C-NY) released the following statement on former President Jimmy Carter’s 3-day visit to Cuba: “President Carter’s trip to Cuba should have been an opportunity to denounce the atrocities carried out over almost of half a century of a dictatorship rule. Instead of trying to create a bond with Castro, Carter should be taking a stand for America and the spread of freedom and democracy to one of our most oppressed neighbors. He can start by calling for the release of U.S. government contractor Alan Gross, who is being held captive by Castro’s oppressive regime, and speak out against the reprehensible acts that have gone on for far too long. It’s disheartening that Cuba has become a symbol of everything that is anti-America. What was once a beautiful country full of life and aspiration has become a deteriorated nation, isolated from its neighbors. The limits to freedom that were imposed by Fidel Castro over a half a century ago, are now carried on in full force by his brother. I stand with all Cuban-Americans, in denouncing the Castro legacy of dictatorship that continues to suppress the freedoms, health, and livelihood of the Cuban people.�? ###
03.29.2011	Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on voting for H.R. 839 to terminate the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP): “Today, I voted for H.R. 839, which terminates another one of the Obama Administration’s failed programs, the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP). The Administration earmarked $30 billion in TARP funds, claiming it would help up to 4 million struggling homeowners keep their homes. The reality is that this program has failed to meet expectations, as only roughly 500,000 loans have been permanently modified and many of those have still gone into default. The only way we’re going to effectively revitalize our housing market and prevent foreclosures is to get our economy back on track. That is why I continue to support polices that cut wasteful spending, remove barriers to job creation, and get the people of Staten Island and Brooklyn back to work. The American taxpayers don’t want a handout in the form of another failed, government-run program. They just want jobs.” ###
03.29.2011	BROOKLYN, NY – Today, Representative Michael G. Grimm (R,C-Brooklyn/SI) is joined by Brooklyn Borough President Marty Markowitz (D-Brooklyn), elected Brooklyn officials, community leaders, and the Fort Hamilton Citizens Action Committee (FHCAC) in opposition to the Army Corps of Engineers’ proposal to move the headquarters of its North Atlantic Division (NAD) from Fort Hamilton Army Base to Manhattan. The NAD headquarters have been at Brooklyn’s Fort Hamilton since 1998. Moving them now will add unnecessary costs to taxpayers and could make the base more susceptible to closure under the next round of Base Closure and Realignment (BRAC) decisions. “With a skyrocketing debt and a nationwide need to cut back on spending, it makes absolutely no sense for the Army Corps of Engineers to move from Fort Hamilton, where it has been housed – rent free - since 1998, to Manhattan where it will pay $1 million a year in rent. Fort Hamilton is an important part of the Brooklyn community, which is why we must fight to keep it here and to prevent a costly taxpayer-funded move that could put the Army base’s future at risk. I will do whatever it takes to keep the Corp’s flag at Fort Hamilton and will not consider any conversation to the contrary,” said Congressman Michael Grimm. “At a time when creating and retaining jobs in Brooklyn is critical, the North Atlantic Division moving out of the borough would take away more than a hundred jobs and leave the Fort Hamilton Army Base more vulnerable to future closing. The North Atlantic Division has been a presence in the Fort Hamilton/Bay Ridge community for more than a decade, and a proposed relocation to Soho in Manhattan simply doesn’t make logistical or economic sense. I join Congressman Grimm and the Fort Hamilton Citizens Action Committee in opposing this ill-conceived idea, and to the Army Corps of Engineers’ plan to leave Fort Hamilton, I say—‘fort-geddaboudit!’” said Brooklyn Borough President Marty Markowitz. "The Army Corps of Engineers should remain as part of the operations at Brooklyn's Fort Hamilton Army Base. It is that simple. To incur new expenses, to move the North Atlantic Division to Manhattan, when they have been welcomed here in Brooklyn makes no sense. I join Congressman Grimm in opposing this proposal and stand as a staunch supporter of the base operations at Fort Hamilton," said Senator Marty Golden. “Moving Army resources from Fort Hamilton would greatly impact our community. The base provides not only jobs but creates significant economic activity for Bay Ridge which we cannot afford to lose during these trying times. Furthermore, such a loss could lead to the base becoming a target for closure in the future, which would be devastating for Brooklyn and New York City,” said Assemblywoman Nicole Malliotakis. “The Fort Hamilton Citizen Action Committee’s mission is to foster a strong relationship between the Fort and the surrounding community and to protect this valuable military installation from misguided attempts to close it. I believe this potential move by the Army Corps of Engineers would put the Fort at risk and deal a major blow to our efforts to defend it in the next BRAC. Not to mention, now is hardly the time for a federal agency to be spending more taxpayer funds on an ill-advised, unnecessary move. Therefore, I oppose this potential move on behalf of all the committee’s board members,” said Bill Guarinello, Chairman, FHCAC. “At a time when spending is out of control, the taxpayers would be cheated if the Army Corps of Engineers left Fort Hamilton,” Mike Long, Vice President, FHCAC. “As a former Chairman of Community Board Ten, an officer in the Fort Hamilton Civic Action Committee, and a resident of Bay Ridge for over 20 years, I have witnessed firsthand the tremendous relationship and synergy that the residents of Bay Ridge, Dyker Heights and the entire Borough have with the Fort Hamilton Army Base, and anything that could potentially weaken this relationship, including the NAD's current proposal to leave the Base, could potentially be detrimental to those residents and the entire City of New York," said Craig Eaton, Treasurer, FHCAC. “The Corps of Engineers must not move its North Atlantic Division from Ft. Hamilton. Fort Hamilton is an important part of our community. I am proud to stand with Congressman Grimm in opposing this move,” Fran Vella-Marrone, President of the Dyker Heights Civic Association. The Army Corps of Engineers has been exploring the possibility of moving its NAD headquarters to 201 Varick Street in Manhattan as early as late 2012 or early 2013, where it will pay roughly $1 million in rent a year. It currently pays no rent at Fort Hamilton; however, it does pay operating expenses which are estimated around $130,000 a year. In addition to the cost, the move could make Fort Hamilton more likely to be selected for closure in the next round of Base Closure and Realignment (BRAC) decisions. On March 17, 2011 Rep. Michael Grimm sent a letter to General Robert L. Van Antwerp, the Chief of Engineers, urging the Army Corps of Engineers to keep its NAD headquarters at Fort Hamilton, citing unnecessary cost to taxpayers as the strongest reason for opposition. ###
03.23.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C – NY) will be adopting a rescue dog, with the help of the Humane Society of the United States. The dog, named Sebastian, was saved from life on a puppy mill in Missouri and nursed back to health. He is scheduled to arrive in Washington, DC on March 30th, where Rep. Grimm will meet him for the first time in his office. Rep. Grimm has already established himself as a champion for animals. His first bill in Congress was the Veterans Dog Training Therapy Act (H.R. 198), which establishes a program that allows veterans to address post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) through therapeutic dog training and handling. The trained service dogs are then given to physically disabled veterans to help them with their daily activities. Rep. Grimm is former combat veteran who served as a Marine in Operation Desert Storm. The bill not only helps his fellow veterans, but is also dog-friendly by encouraging the use of shelter dogs when appropriate. In addition, Rep. Grimm is a cosponsor of Rep. Gerlach’s Puppy Uniform Protection and Safety Act (H.R. 835), a bill to crackdown on puppy mills and ensure that breeders meet standards that protect the health and safety of puppies. For more information on an animal adoption and how to stop puppy mills, please visit the Humane Society’s website at: http://www.humanesociety.org. ###
03.23.2011	Rep. Michael Grimm (R,C-NY) issued the following statement on the one year anniversary of Obamacare: “It has been one year since the Democrats rammed through and signed into law a $2.6 trillion overhaul of our healthcare system. Obamacare isn’t even implemented and already premiums are on the rise and Americans are losing access to their current plans. This is just the beginning. The same Administration that pushed this bill through now concedes that half of all employers – and as many as 80 percent of small businesses – will be forced to give up their current coverage within the next two years. It also admits that over 7 million seniors will lose their Medicare Advantage plans. A CBO study estimates that Obamacare will increase federal healthcare spending by half a trillion dollars over the next decade and that families will be burdened with an extra $2,100 on average per year in premium costs. Without repeal, Obamacare will add $701 billion to the deficit over the next 10 years. The American people are tired of this Administration’s broken promises. They deserve healthcare reform that provides access to high-quality, affordable care. All Obamacare does is expand the federal government’s authority, add to the national debt, and limit the freedom of Americans to choose and keep the plan they want. Obamacare must be overturned and that is why I voted to repeal it. A full repeal may not happen overnight, but I will not give up the fight to defund and eventually repeal Obamacare once and for all, and replace it with common-sense reforms that will lower costs, improve the quality of care, and protect jobs.” ###
03.17.2011	WASINGTON, DC - Reps. Michael Grimm (R-NY) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NY) invite all Americans to celebrate the 150th anniversary of the unification of Italy on March 17, 2011. The congressmen have introduced a bill, H.R. 742, to recognize the March 17, 2011 anniversary and to award posthumously a Congressional Gold Medal to Giuseppe Garibaldi, who led Italy to unification. Celebrations are expected throughout the United States celebrating Italy’s rich history and culture, as well as the long-lasting heritage that thrives throughout the Italian-American community. “I have always been proud of my Italian heritage,” said Rep. Grimm. “Our country wouldn’t be what it is today without the great Italians that passed through and left their mark, nor without those who immigrated here in search of the American dream. In New York City, the legacy of Italian influence lives on strong in our history, arts, culture, and architecture.” said Grimm. “I am honored to represent the Congressional District with the highest percentage of Italian Americans in the country, and I invite all my constituents in Staten Island and Brooklyn to join in the celebration of the 150th anniversary of Italy’s unification.” "Honoring the contributions of Garibaldi and other Italians like Christopher Columbus, scientists like Galileo, artists like Constantino Brumidi, and architects like Andrea Palladio, made the United States the great nation that it is today", said Rep. Pascrell, co-chair of the Congressional Italian-American Delegation. "Their legacy is our shared American history. This important day for Italy allows us to reinforce the deep and binding ties between the United States and Italy. I always work to promote the strong relationship between our two nations and honor our mutual heritage." “The National Italian American Foundation (NIAF) is immensely proud to work with the Italian American Congressional Delegation on this historic recognition, said John Marino, NIAF Executive Director. “NIAF has a long relationship of working closely with this bicameral and bipartisan group on issues to promote and preserve the unique legacy of Italy and the many significant contributions of Italian Americans to the fabric of our nation. NIAF was founded in 1975 and continues to give a voice to the Italian American community in our nation's capital, which could only be done through our close relationship with the Italian American Congressional delegation. We thank them all. H.R. 742 celebrates the Republic of Italy on the 150th Anniversary of its Unification and awards posthumously a Congressional Gold Medal to Giuseppe Garibaldi. Garibaldi was born in Nice on July 4, 1807. He later came to the U.S. where he learned English and applied for citizenship. In 1854, Garibaldi left Staten Island, New York and returned to Italy as a commander in the conflicts of the Risorgimento, leading the military forces that would provide for the unification of Italy. President Lincoln offered Garibaldi a command as Major General, but he declined. To honor him, the 39th New York Infantry was known as `The Garibaldi Guard'. About 150 of its 850 men were Italian. It fought in the Union Army from Bull Run to Appomattox. During his time America, he lived with inventor Antonio Meucci in his home in Staten Island, New York. The Garibaldi-Meucci Museum is a place where Italian-American heritage and culture can be celebrated as well as where the lives of Giuseppe Garibaldi and Antonio Meucci can be remembered. The Garibaldi-Meucci Museum was listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places in 1980. ###
03.16.2011	Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R,C-NY) voted for H.R. 861, the Neighborhood Stabilization Program Termination Act, which eliminates a failed program that has wasted billions of taxpayer dollars. NSP provides funds to state and local governments to purchase, renovate, rebuild, and resell abandoned and foreclosed property. This program is inefficient and ineffective and has been operating without proper reporting, oversight, and accountability since its inception. “This program is nothing more than a costly bailout for the lenders, servicers and real estate speculators, and will do nothing to keep people in their homes, said Grimm. “The American people should not have to pick up the tab for those who made risky and reckless bets on the housing market. That is why I voted for the termination of the NSP and was pleased to see it pass the House.” The Democrats allocated almost $4 billion for this program in 2008 under HERA; in 2009, they allocated another $1.93 billion through the “stimulus;” and in 2010, through the Dodd-Frank Act, $1 billion more in spending was included for NSP.
03.15.2011	“Today, Republicans moved another step forward in our promise to reign in wasteful and reckless Washington spending by passing a continuing resolution to cut $6 billion. Some may say that's not good enough, and I agree. This is just the next step in a long process of spending cuts and job creation, and we’re just getting started. Two weeks ago, we successfully cut $4 billion, and once today’s $6 billion in cuts becomes law, Republicans will have cut $10 billion in 5 weeks. This unprecedented cut sends a message that the House Republicans mean business. Now that we have a record to stand on, it’s time to stop putting short term band-aids on out-of-control spending. We've laid the groundwork and it’s time to focus on a long-term fix. That is why, moving forward, I will oppose any future short-term stopgap bills, but feel very comfortable with our vote today and the position we will be in to negotiate spending cuts moving ahead.” ###
03.03.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Representatives Michael Grimm (R-SI/Brooklyn) and Gregory Meeks (D-Queens) introduced legislation to protect the toll discount program to residents. The Residential and Commuter Toll Fairness Act of 2011 (H.R. 897 ) would allow state and municipal governments to offer discounted rates to residents for trips taken on roads, bridges, rail, bus, ferry, or other transportation systems. This legislation is in response to a decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit on the case of Selevan v. New York Thruway Authority, which ruled that that toll discounts for New York residents of towns bordering the New York Thruway are unconstitutional. “The simple truth is that Staten Islanders pay exorbitant tolls to subsidize mass transit for other parts of our region,” saidRep. Grimm. “We face the longest commutes in the nation and we receive little transit assistance for carrying that toll burden. Staten Islanders are the only New York City residents who have no subway access to the rest of the city and must rely on toll roads to drive off the Island. While we will continue to pay a disproportionate share of the region's toll burdens these discounts offer fair and reasonable relief to residents who have been failed by our region's transportation authorities. This legislation, with bipartisan support, will ensure that absolutely, essential relief continues.” “By the very fact that residents of the Rockaway Community pay a toll, in my opinion is unfair and unjust because they pay the only intra-borough toll in the nation,” said Rep. Meeks. “They are in the same borough, many on the same community board, the same school district, the same police precinct and the same zip code. To take away the discount they currently receive would be a further injustice. This bill will preserve that discount and at least ease some of the pain that residents have just because they live in the Rockaway Peninsula.” "Between our four bridges, Staten Island collects nearly 6% of all tolls in the United States. Due to our limited transportation alternatives, traveling off-island would be prohibitively expensive without federal legislation to protect our resident discount. The Chamber of Commerce applauds Congressman Grimm for taking action on this critical issue," said Linda Baran, President and CEO of the Staten Island Chamber of Commerce. Transportation toll discount programs that are based on residential status do not discriminate against those individuals who do not receive these discounts, but instead address actual unequal and undue financial burdens placed on residents of certain jurisdictions that have no other way of accessing those areas other than through a means that requires them to pay a toll. The Residential and Commuter Toll Fairness Act of 2011 provides clarification of the existing authority of local governments to issue or grant transportation toll, user fee or fare discount programs based on residential status. It also provides Congressional authorization for discount programs. The costs add up for residents paying tolls on a daily basis, especially for New Yorkers who pay the highest tolls in the country. This legislation would protect the current discount programs offered to residents traveling across the Verrazano-Narrows, Cross Bay, Goethals, and Bayonne Bridges and the Outerbridge Crossing. Residents across the country benefit from the financial relief provided by residential discount programs. It will allow the current policies to continue, as well as provide the opportunity for new residential discount programs to be created. ###
02.25.2011	Rep. Michael Grimm (R-NY) issued the following statement in response to the announcement that New York City would replace light fixtures containing the toxic chemicals PCBs over the course of the next decade: “I’m extremely frustrated with New York City’s handling of the aging light fixtures contaminated with PCBs. The City has known that this has been an issue for several years, so coming out now with a 10-year timeline is completely unacceptable. Ten years is enough time to expose an entire generation of students - progressing from kindergarten to high school - to PCBs. Additionally, teachers and employees who have been exposed to PCBs for years will face additional exposure due to these delays, which could be particularly damaging to women who may have multiple pregnancies during the course of the next decade. After working closely with Councilman Ignizio, in conjunction with the EPA, we have found that there are solutions available to make this happen. There are private companies who are willing to exchange the fixtures with more energy-efficient fixtures and bulbs at a significantly lower cost, which can be paid out over the next few years. Therefore I urge the City to implement a safer and more realistic timeline of 3-5 years. I ask Mayor Bloomberg to consider this type of cost-saving option on a shorter timeline. The health of our students and teachers is on the line, and we cannot put them at risk any longer.” ###
02.18.2011	Rep. Michael Grimm (R-NY) issued the following statement on the United States’ vote today in the U.N. Security Council to veto a resolution condemning Israel: “I’m glad to see that after all the hand-wringing and equivocating, the administration made the right decision to veto the U.N. resolution condemning Israeli settlements as “illegal.” The decision to stand by Israel should have been without question. Moreover, this issue should have never been brought to the U.N. in the first place, as involving the U.N. is not the way to move this stalled peace process forward. Only when the Palestinian leadership is willing to come to the table without any preconditions will the process see results. I stand by our Israeli allies and encourage them to come together with the Palestinian people to find a solution that moves them towards lasting peace."
02.16.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Grimm took a stand for our nation’s law enforcement and firefighters when he cast a “yes” vote for two amendments to maintain full funding for them. The amendments are part of a continuing resolution which will cut $100 billion from the budget. “Our police officers and firefighters are our first responders in a time of crisis,” said Grimm. “On a daily basis, they work selflessly around the clock for our safety and protection. They deserve our full gratitude and support. While I fully support cutting the budget, we also need to strike balance when it comes to the safety and security of our nation’s citizens. I am proud to stand up for our city’s heroes and am pleased that my colleagues joined me in doing the same to pass these important amendments.” Grimm voted for the amendment offered by Rep. Weiner to restore the hiring component of the COPS Program to its FY2010 amount of $298 million, which will allow cash-strapped cities to retain and hire police officers. He also voted for the amendment offered by Rep. Pascrell to restore $510 million in funding for DHS FIRE grants and SAFER grants that help provide firefighter jobs, equipment, and training for local fire departments. ###
02.14.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEContact: Carol Danko, 202-225-3371 WASHINGTON, DC – Congressmen Michael Grimm (R-Staten Island) and Peter King (R-Nassau) today issued a letter to House Speaker John Boehner expressing their concern with various budget cuts that were included in the FY2011 Continuing Resolution, which will be voted on this week. Reps. King and Grimm contend that these cuts will have a disproportionate impact on the New York City / Long Island region. Attached is a copy of their letter they sent to Speaker Boehner: ### Text of the Letter: February 14, 2011 The Honorable John A. BoehnerSpeakerU.S. House of RepresentativesH-232, The CapitolWashington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner: While we agree with you that it is absolutely essential to reduce government spending, we must express our grave concern with various budget cuts included in the FY2011 Continuing Resolution which we believe disproportionally impact the downstate New York City-Long Island region. Most troubling is the $200 million cut in transit security grants. These transit grants are vital to protecting the millions of New Yorkers who use the subway and LIRR-Metro North commuter lines each day. Our region has been and continues to be the top terrorist target in the country and these deep cuts put the lives of our constituents at risk—especially since we know al-Qaeda’s history of attacking trains in London and Madrid. Second, the continuing resolution makes severe cuts to various law enforcement programs including money for COPS Programs and State and Local Law Enforcement. It even terminates a COPS hiring program. Once again, we feel that these cuts are misguided and put at risk the safety and security of our communities which desperately need additional community policing programs and more law enforcement officers on the streets. Next, the cuts of over $150 million to Amtrak will severely impact rail traffic in the Northeast Corridor. This corridor is vital to our economy and national security. Finally, the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) receives an almost $400 million cut in the continuing resolution as well. LIHEAP is crucial to homeowners in the Northeast. As we have said Mr. Speaker, we absolutely believe that deep budget cuts are required. We have concluded, however, that the totality of the cuts proposed by the Republican Conference will impose a disproportionate impact on our region. We ask you, therefore, to reconsider these cuts in light of their particular harmful effect on the NYC-LI region. Sincerely, PETER T. KING MICHAEL G. GRIMMMember of Congress Member of Congress
02.11.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEContact: Carol Danko, 202-225-3371 WASHINGTON – Congressman Michael Grimm (R-NY) sent the following letter to House leaders stating that he will vote “no” on the Continuing Resolution (CR) if it includes cuts to U.S. aid to Israel. Next week the House is scheduled to consider a CR to provide discretionary government funding for the duration of FY 2011. The CR will cut $100 billion in discretionary spending, the largest reduction in discretionary spending in the history of our nation. Grimm is a co-chair of the House Republican Israel Caucus. ### Text of the letter: February 11, 2011 The Honorable Eric CantorHouse Majority LeaderU.S. House of RepresentativesH-329, The CapitolWashington, DC 20515 Dear Leader Cantor,I write to urge you and our colleagues in Congress to oppose any allocations for FY 2011 that, if adopted will impose cuts to foreign aid to Israel. The most important use of federal resources is to ensure the safety and security of our great nation. A key to that safety is the security assistance the United States provides our most important ally in the Middle East, Israel. The events in Egypt the past few weeks have reinforced Israel’s importance in a volatile region. Israel remains the one stable, pro-western democracy amid uncertainty as to whom their neighbors will side. Preserving funds for security assistance enables us to safeguard American interests, as well as address threats to our national security, including global terrorism, radicalism, incitement, and the growing Iranian nuclear and geo-political threat. I understand and fully support the urgency to reduce spending at a time of enormous fiscal challenges. Nevertheless, those challenges at home are paralleled by unprecedented challenges in the Middle East. Steadfast financial support to our most vital ally is essential if our nation is to respond to the adverse circumstances in a region that makes no secret of their desires to harm not only our homeland, but also those who share our ideals. Like you, I understand the special relationship the United States enjoys with Israel, and that the security of each nation is reliant upon the other. Our shared commitment to Israel and its people requires us to support and promote strengthening the necessary bond between the two countries. It is because of this common goal that I ask you to join me and not support any proposed FY2011 Budget that would reduce foreign aid to Israel. Reducing security assistance to one of our most important allies in the name of fiscal responsibility is not fiscally responsible, and would have a devastating impact on our partnership with Israel, along with our shared objectives to confront terror and extremism. Sincerely, MICHAEL G. GRIMMMember of Congress cc:Speaker John BoehnerChairman Hal Rogers
02.11.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman Michael Grimm (R-NY) issued the following statement on the administration’s Housing Finance Report: “Republicans have been calling for GSE reform for the past two years; however, democrats failed to address it when they controlled the entire Congress, and failed to include it in Dodd-Frank. Now that republicans have taken control of the House and made this a top priority, the administration has switched into campaign mode to get behind the issue. While the report does acknowledge the need to address a problem that continues to drain the pockets of the American taxpayers, it fails to lay out a specific plan of action or timeline for winding down Fannie and Freddie. It simply provides options. In general, it’s a step in the right direction, but one they should have taken two years ago. The failure to act at the beginning of the crisis has cost taxpayers billions of dollars. I look forward to working in my capacity as a member of the House Financial Services Committee to address the costly burden of Fannie and Freddie once and for all.” ###
02.06.2011	“Today we celebrate the 100 year anniversary of the birth of one of the greatest leaders of our time, President Ronald Reagan. Reagan redefined the Republican Party with his emphasis on tax cuts, national defense, and limited government. He knew that ‘government is not the solution to our problems,’ but that with hard-work and individual responsibility, Americans can prosper. While Reagan may be best known for leading our country through a strong economic recovery or for the fall of the Soviet Union, the Great Communicator was also known for his optimism. I hope that Americans can once again find that optimism, as we move forward to put power back into the hands of the people. By returning to the same conservative principles on which Reagan relied, I am optimistic that we can restore the honor, individual liberties, and economic prosperity that once defined our great nation.” ###
01.31.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE WASHINGTON, DC - Rep. Michael Grimm (R-NY) states: “I would like to offer my prayers and thoughts to all of those trapped among the unrest in Egypt, and offer any assistance possible to help facilitate the safe return of American citizens. It is my hope that a true democracy, of and for the people of Egypt, will emerge from this turmoil. I have provided useful information below from the U.S. Department of State on procedures for U.S. citizens seeking to leave Egypt. In addition, please do not hesitate to contact my office or the U.S. Consular in Egypt for assistance. I would ask that everyone keep all the Egyptian people in their thoughts and prayers through this dangerous period in their history and that a peaceful resolution will be quickly realized.” Congressman Grimm’s Office Information:New York: 718-351-1062Washington: 202-225-3371 Consular Assistance to U.S. Citizens in Egypt:Phone: 1-888-407-4747 or 202-501-4444Email: EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.govWebsite: www.travel.state.gov. ### Information from the U.S. Department of State: The Department of State is making arrangements to provide transportation to safe haven locations in Europe. This assistance will be provided on a reimbursable basis, as required by U.S. law. U.S. citizens who travel on US government - arranged transport will be expected to make their own onward travel plans from the safe haven location. Flights to evacuation points will begin departing Egypt on Monday, January 31. There will be a limited number of seats available on evacuation flights on January 31. Priority will be given to persons with medical emergencies or severe medical conditions. Persons interested in departing Egypt via USG-chartered transportation should contact the EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov, 202-501-4444. Please provide the following information:Name, age, place of birth, U.S. passport number and any special medical needs. Immediate family members (spouses and children) who are not U.S. citizens must be documented for entry into the safehaven country and/or U.S., if that is your final destination. Frequently Asked Question: I'm ready to go. What do I do? Documented U.S. citizens may proceed to the HAJ Terminal 4 of the airport as of Monday, January 31, 11:00 am. My child is a U.S. citizen. Can my whole family be evacuated? A U.S. citizen child may be escorted by one adult, preferably a parent, who has appropriate travel documents. If a family has more than one U.S. citizen child, the one-adult rule still applies. Do I need a U.S. passport? All U.S. citizen travelers and their spouses and children, are required to have valid travel documents. The U.S. Embassy in Cairo will assist U.S. citizens with travel documents. U.S. citizens who do not hold a valid U.S. passport or visa and are interested in departing Egypt via USG-chartered transportation should contact the US Department of State and Embassy Cairo by sending an email to EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or by calling 202-501-4444. What do I do if my child is a U.S. citizen, but hasn't yet been documented? Contact the U.S. Embassy in Cairo. U.S. citizens who do not hold a valid U.S. passport or visa interested in departing Egypt via USG-chartered transportation should contact the U.S. Department of State and Embassy Cairo by sending an email to EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or by calling 202-501-4444. My family members aren't U.S. citizens. Can they travel with me? The scheduled evacuation flights will transport U.S. citizens and their immediate family members. Immediate family members - defined as spouses and children - who are not U.S. citizens will be required to have travel documentation that will permit their entry into the safe haven destinations. At this time, flights are expected to travel to Istanbul, Turkey, Athens, Greece, and Nicosia, Cyprus. Safe haven destinations may change. U.S. citizens requesting evacuation will not be able to select their safe haven destinations. Will you fly me to the United States? Our goal is to get people to a safe place, where they can make their own onward travel arrangements. Travelers will be responsible for their own onward travel arrangements and accommodations in the safe haven city. Consular officers will provide travelers with information on airlines and hotels. What should I bring? Travelers should bring valid travel documents and any necessary medications. Each traveler may bring one suitcase and a small personal carry-on item. U.S. citizens seeking evacuation should be prepared for a substantial wait at the airport. Travelers are advised to bring food, water, diapers and other necessary toiletries with them to the airport. What about my pets? Evacuation flights will not be able to accommodate pets. Do I have to pay for the flight? U.S. citizens requesting evacuation will be asked to sign paperwork promising to reimburse the U.S. Government for flight costs at a later date. Exact flight costs are not yet available, but should be comparable to a one-way commercial flight from Egypt to the safe haven location. How do I get to the airport? At this time, public transport to include taxis is still operating.
01.26.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Carol Danko, 202-225-3371January 21, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC – Reps Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) and Pedro Pierluisi (D-PR) introduce the National Blue Alert Act (H.R. 365), a bipartisan bill that would encourage and integrate a “Blue Alert” system throughout the United States in order to quickly disseminate information when a law enforcement officer is seriously injured or killed in the line of duty. The Blue Alert system would work in a similar fashion to the “Amber Alert” system currently used to locate abducted children. It would be implemented by law enforcement agencies, and state and local governments to speed up the apprehension of criminals who seriously injure or kill local, state, or federal law enforcement officers. “The National Blue Alert Act will allow us to act quickly in apprehending suspects, and make it clear that to anyone who chooses to harm our nation’s law enforcement officers, that they will be caught,” said Rep Grimm. “Our law enforcement officers put their lives on the line every day for our safety and protection. They are true heroes of our communities, and I am proud to introduce this bill on their behalf.” “I am proud to co-sponsor the National Blue Alert Act of 2011,” said Rep. Pierluisi. “This bill reflects our respect for law enforcement officers, our appreciation for the risks they undertake in the line of duty, and our fierce determination to ensure that the criminals who seriously injure or kill them are promptly apprehended and convicted.” Currently, there is no national alert system to disseminate information to other law enforcement, the media, or the general public in regards to officers who have been injured or killed; however, many states have created a state-level blue alert system in an effort to better inform their local communities. H.R. 365 creates the national Blue Alert Program within the Department of Justice. Each year Congress authorizes funds under the COPS Technology Program, for technology and automated systems that help state and local law enforcement agencies prevent, respond to, and investigate crime. This bill authorizes $10 million of already budgeted funds from the COPS Program to be appropriated for the creation of Blue Alert systems throughout the country. It also directs the Department of Justice to designate a national coordinator for the program who will encourage states to develop Blue Alert plans, establish voluntary guidelines, and develop protocols for suspect apprehension. Rep. Grimm is a former FBI agent and Rep. Pierluisi is a former Attorney General of Puerto Rico. The Sergeant’s Benevolent Association and the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association (FLEOA) have endorsed the Grimm-Pierluisi National Blue Alert Act (H.R. 365). ###
01.20.2011	Rep. Grimm (R-NY) issued the following statement on making healthcare reform a bipartisan effort: “Last night we answered the call of the American people and voted to repeal the job-killing, economy-crushing healthcare law. Today we move forward with another call to replace Obamacare with common-sense solutions that address the rising cost of coverage and provide affordable, accessible, quality healthcare. Republicans have laid out a 12-point plan to replace the law with thoughtful reforms to help insure the uninsured, protect those with pre-existing conditions, lower the growing cost of health coverage, and preserve the doctor-patient relationship. If we are going to do what’s best for the American people, we cannot continue to kick the can down the road, and go on with business as usual. We must change the culture of Washington. Today, we passed an amendment introduced by one of my democratic colleagues which instructs the committees of jurisdiction to provide, once and for all, a permanent “doc fix” in legislation replacing ObamaCare. This responsible amendment addresses the need to fix an ongoing problem of a flawed system that has required the repeated passing of bills to avoid steep cuts in physician payments, rather than addressing the underlying problem. It passed with bipartisan support. I hope this amendment will set the tone moving forward as we work together to implement a plan for affordable, accessible, and high-quality healthcare. This is our opportunity to put partisan politics aside and do what’s best for the country.The American people expect and deserve the Congress, on both sides of the aisle, to work together to move our country forward, to grow the economy, and to provide an environment where the American Dream will be preserved for our children and grandchildren.”
01.13.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Carol Danko, 202-225-3371 WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Rep. Michael Grimm (R-NY) called on the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (PANYNJ) to include the construction of a light rail system connecting Staten Island, NY to Bayonne, NJ in any plans to raise the Bayonne Bridge. Last month, the U.S. Census released data stating that Staten Island commuters are faced with some of the longest commutes in the nation. A light rail would provide an alternative form of public transportation to help alleviate traffic congestion and reduce the time Staten Island residents spend commuting to and from work. “The people of Staten Island have spent too much time sitting their cars stuck in traffic,” said Grimm. “A light rail extension over the Bayonne Bridge would relieve the road congestion and help lower commute times. This project is a top priority for me, and I look forward to working with the Port Authority to find the best way to incorporate the extension into its plans to raise the Bayonne Bridge.” When the bridge was constructed over 80 years ago, light rail was part of the original design; however, the rail line was never completed. Adding an extension now would allow Staten Island commuters to access the Hudson-Bergen light rail – connecting them to New Jersey and providing an alternative route to lower Manhattan via the PATH. This would help alleviate congestion on routes such as the Verrazano Bridge, the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway and the East River Crossings. “The Port Authority already has plans to raise the Bayonne Bridge, so it makes sense to incorporate light rail into the new design,” said Grimm. “The people of Staten Island have waited far too long for a light rail connection, which is why I plan to do all I can to make sure that it is built.” ### The text of the letter is below: Mr. Christopher O. WardExecutive DirectorThe Port Authority of New York and New Jersey225 Park Avenue South, 15th FloorNew York, NY 10003 Dear Director Ward, First I would like to extend my best wishes to you, your family and your staff for a healthy and happy New Year. I am writing today to request that any plans to raise the height of the Bayonne Bridge include the construction of a light rail system linking Staten Island, NY to Bayonne, NJ. As you know, when the bridge construction began in the late1920s, light rail was part of the original design. However, since the rail lines were never constructed, Staten Island has been burdened with some of the worst traffic in the nation. In December 2010, the U.S. Census Bureau released data stating that Staten Island residents have the longest commute in the nation, commuting an average of an hour and a half to and from work each day. In order to reduce commute times and congestion, an additional form of transportation is essential to connect the residents of Staten Island to surrounding areas. Linking Staten Island to Bayonne via light rail will allow commuters from all parts of Staten Island to easily access the Hudson Bergen light rail. It will give those who work in areas such as Jersey City a mass transit commuting alternative, whereas now their only practical option is to drive to work, further adding to Staten Island’s congestion issues. A light rail connection will also give Staten Island residents working in lower Manhattan an alternate route to work via the PATH, helping to alleviate congestion on such strained routes as the Verrazano Bridge, the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway and the East River Crossings. Including light rail in plans to raise the Bayonne Bridge is a top priority for me. It is imperative that we move forward quickly, before engineering and design work on the Bayonne Bridge modification begins. I would like to request a meeting with you before the end of the month to discuss viable options. Thank you for your consideration. I look forward to meeting you in person to discuss this matter in greater detail and to the beginning of a strong working relationship. Sincerely, MICHAEL G. GRIMMMember of Congress
01.10.2011	Rep. Michael Grimm (R-NY) issued the following statement on the response to the tragedy in Arizona: “First, this is a heinous, brutal, and despicable act that in no way should be minimized. However, I urge all of my colleagues not to call for ‘reactionary legislation’ or extreme measures. I think this is a time for all elected officials, political pundits, and commentators to reflect and heighten their awareness; being cognizant of the need for civility, respect, and professionalism, yet mindful that availing ourselves to the public is a necessary and productive aspect of the job, which inherently raises the level of danger. I would ask the leadership to provide security briefings and even some training for staff.”
01.07.2011	Rep. Michael Grimm issued the following statement on his plans to vote to repeal the healthcare law: “No one believes that Obamacare will lower the deficit. It won’t. That is why I will vote to repeal it. I was elected because I made a promise to voters that I would repeal this costly, job-killing bill and replace it with policies that work, and I intend to honor that promise. Obamacare is nothing more than a dishonest shell-game to confuse the American people. The Democrats are using fuzzy math and double counting money in order to claim that the bill will lower the deficit. It will not. They have double counted the $521 billion Social Security payroll tax, just as their doing with Medicare cuts. They have excluded the costly doc-fix. Their “savings” are based using 10 years of revenue, for 6 years of coverage. The numbers just don’t add up. The reality is that the bill will add $701 billion to the deficit over the next ten years and will cost the American people $2.6 trillion in the first ten years of full implementation. Senate and House Democrats complain about the repeal out of concern for the national debt. If that’s not hypocrisy, then I don’t know what is.” ###
01.06.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Carol Danko, 202-225-3371 WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Representative Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) introduced the Veterans Dog Training Therapy Act (H.R. 198), his first piece of legislation as a newly-elected congressman. The bill establishes a program that allows veterans to address post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) through therapeutic dog training and handling. The trained service dogs are then given to physically disabled veterans to help them with their daily activities. “As a veteran and an American, I wanted my first bill in Congress to give back to those who have given so much to us,” said Rep. Grimm. “This type of program that allows veterans to help veterans could have a tremendous impact in New York. That is why I’d like to see a program established at the Brooklyn VA Hospital, which currently provides care for many of the veterans in my district.” H.R. 198 establishes a pilot program in three to five VA medical centers over a five-year period, as well as at centers with a training area for educating veterans with mental health conditions in the art and science of assistance dog training and handling. It also calls for an assessment of the benefits of addressing the symptoms of PTSD through a therapeutic medium of dog training, and it encourages the use of shelter dogs, when appropriate. The program’s combined approach creates an opportunity to save money by offering an alternative treatment to PTSD while at the same time benefitting physically disabled veterans in need of assistance. In addition, with veteran suicide rates so high and more servicemen and women developing PTSD, this bill meets a crucial need for additional treatment methods. “The bill takes a private sector approach to implement a policy that is efficient and cost-effective,” said Grimm. “If implemented properly, I believe this program will save money, while addressing the growing need to help returning veterans. Caring for veterans while reducing spending make this program a win-win for all.” Congressman Michael Grimm is a Marine combat veteran of Operation Desert Storm. ###
01.05.2011	United States House of Representatives is scheduled to conduct the first votes of the 112th Congress on January 5th, 2011 at Noon.
01.05.2011	The First Session of the 112th Congress commences January 5th, 2011.
