03.27.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) issued the following statement praising the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) issuance of a final guidance stating the agency’s intent to exercise enforcement discretion for the requirements of the Produce Safety Rule, part of the Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA), as they apply to entities growing, harvesting, packing and holding wine grapes, hops, pulses and almonds: “FDA’s announcement to use discretionary enforcement while it reopens rulemaking to apply common sense and modernize classification of these commodities is welcome news for farm country,” said Rep. Newhouse. "I requested a science-based reclassification on behalf of food producers and the agriculture community. Reclassification would ensure food safety while recognizing the unique production circumstances of these commodities. I thank Commissioner Gottlieb for responding to these concerns, and I hope FDA continues to keep them in mind in future rulemakings.”
03.24.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) issued the following statement on Attorney General William Barr’s release of a principal summary of the findings of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation: Rep. Newhouse: “No collusion. No obstruction. That is the conclusion of Special Counsel Mueller, Attorney General Barr, and Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein. This is a great day for every American who values the truth, justice, and the rule of law."
03.14.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and U.S. Representatives Suzan DelBene and Dan Newhouse sent a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer calling on him to defend the U.S. polysilicon manufacturing industry from Chinese tariffs to save hundreds of high-paying Washington jobs. “We are writing to follow up on our previous letters to again emphasize the importance of immediately resolving China’s retaliatory duties on U.S. polysilicon exports as part of the on-going negotiations with the Government of China,” the members wrote to Lighthizer. In 2014, China placed tariffs on polysilicon materials, a key component in the production of semiconductors, solar panels, and other technology products, in retaliation for U.S. tariffs previously imposed on energy products from China. The move effectively locked U.S. polysilicon manufacturers out of the market, forcing the closure of REC Silicon at its Moses Lake plant, which relied on Chinese imports of polysilicon materials. In the bipartisan letter, the members of Congress called on the administration to find an immediate resolution to the dispute, highlighting that the ongoing tariffs threaten hundreds of skilled, high-paying Washington state jobs if they remain in place. “The continued application of these unfair trade orders threatens immediate, irreversible damage to the American polysilicon industry,” the members continued. “Absent a rapid resolution of this dispute as part of the agreement, hundreds of high wage jobs in Washington State will be lost in the coming weeks.” The members also sent letters to President Trump in September and July of 2018, underscoring the importance of negotiating an end to the Chinese tariffs. The full text of the letter can be found HERE.
03.12.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after attending the Oval Office signing ceremony during which President Trump signed a bipartisan legislative package, S. 47, the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act, into law. S. 47 included a provision to withdraw 340,000 acres in the Methow Valley from consideration for mining. The legislation passed the House last night in a vote of 363 to 62, and the Senate approved it on February 27. “President Trump’s signature of this legislation will preserve the natural beauty of the Methow Valley for generations to come,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This was a community-led effort on a priority for North Central Washington and the region’s thriving recreational economy. I was proud to support this legislation to protect the natural wonder of the Methow Headwaters.” Click here to download the high resolution photo Click here to watch Rep. Newhouse’s Facebook video message after the signing ceremony.
03.12.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after attending the Oval Office signing ceremony during which President Trump signed S. 47, the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act, a legislative package that includes H.R. 1048, the Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project Phase III Act, into law. H.R. 1048 authorizes Phase III of the Yakima River Basin Integrated Water Resource Management Plan, an initiative to better accommodate the water needs of the agricultural community, conservationists, residents, and other stakeholders in the Yakima River Basin region. The Senate approved the legislation on February 12, and the House approved the legislation on February 26. Click here to download the high resolution photo “The future of our region’s agriculture economy depends on access to water storage, and with President Trump signing Central Washington’s legislation priority into law, today is an exciting day for everyone in the Yakima River Basin,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Not only does the success of this legislative effort show the way forward for bipartisan, bicameral cooperation, but it highlights the years-long work of state and local stakeholders, the agriculture community, irrigators, conservationists, and tribes as part of the Yakima Integrated Plan Workgroup and Implementation Committee. I was proud to work across the aisle with my colleagues to get this water solution bill for the Yakima Basin across the finish line.” Click here to watch Rep. Newhouse’s Facebook video message after the signing ceremony. Click here to read Rep. Newhouse’s recent op-ed in the Yakima Herald Republic. BACKGROUND: Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project: The Yakima River Basin is one of the leading agricultural regions in Washington State and throughout the country. The orchardists, wine grape growers, and other members of the agricultural community inject approximately $3.2 billion into Washington’s economy and support countless jobs in the area. However, the demand for water in the region currently exceeds the resources available, especially during times of drought, which have hit the state especially hard in the past few years. As a result, water use has been restricted for junior water rights holders - or individuals who obtained water rights in 1905 or later – during times of shortages. With researchers predicting that drought seasons will only become more common and get worse as snowpack in the mountains continues to decline, action needs to be taken so that stakeholders in the Yakima Basin can continue operating without having to worry about whether or not they will be able to water their crops or their backyard garden. As the nation has seen with extreme water problems in California, we must be proactive and have a viable plan in place should intense drought hit Washington. After years of tough negotiations, the Yakima River Basin Plan offers a solution that will give water users more certainty, while also recognizing the concerns of conservationists and the various stakeholders in the Yakima Basin. Specifically, the Yakima River Basin Plan would: Provide greater water supply reliability for farmers and communities. Secure the water that communities need to meet current and future demand. Protect over 200,000 acres of currently unprotected forest, shrub steppe, and river habitat. Enhance habitat along the Yakima River and its tributaries. Implement water marketing and banking so that water is more easily delivered when and where needed. Build fish passage to allow salmon, steelhead, and bull trout to travel throughout the basin.
03.06.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) announced that FWS will soon propose a rule to delist the gray wolf in the lower 48 states and return management of the species back to the states and tribes. FWS intends to publish the proposed rule in the Federal Register in the coming days, opening a public comment period on the proposal. “The best available science shows that the gray wolf has successfully recovered from the danger of extinction and no longer requires federal protection,” said Rep. Newhouse. “We can see in Washington state that the wolf population is growing quickly while being effectively managed by the Washington Department of Fish & Wildlife in the eastern third of the state. I applaud the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for moving forward with a proposal to delist the wolf in the lower 48 states in order to return management to the states.” Rep. Newhouse was an original cosponsor of H.R. 6784, the Manage Our Wolves Act, which the House passed on November 16, 2018.
03.05.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the entire Washington state congressional delegation joined together to ask United States Trade Representative (USTR) Robert Lighthizer to work with Japan to resolve technical issues and remove barriers to allow Washington state apples access to Japanese markets. The letter, led by Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA-4), specifically calls out Japan’s overly restrictive policies that have effectively blocked Washington apple growers from shipping apples to Japan for decades. “As you work with Japan to improve the trade relationship between our two countries, we respectfully request that you address the technical barriers to trade for U.S. apple growers seeking to export their top-quality fruits to this important market,” the members of Congress wrote to USTR Lighthizer. “Our growers have long sought meaningful access to the Japanese market. Unfortunately, sanitary and phytosanitary (SPS) policies imposed by Japan have drastically inhibited their ability to ship apples to this high priority market for decades.” Washington state grows roughly 67 percent of all United States apples and is responsible for nearly 90 percent of total U.S. apple exports. Washington state apple growers have long sought meaningful access to Japanese markets, but restrictive import requirements have prevented them from gaining a foothold. Since 2003, the United States has won two World Trade Organization disputes against these restrictive policies, but significant technical trade barriers on apples remain in place. “We fully support the rights of countries to enact science-based measures to protect against the importation of pests and diseases that can be harmful to their domestic agricultural industries. However, pest and disease concerns, not supported by science, are often used as an excuse to impose overly-restrictive requirements on imports that are intended to serve as market barriers and protect domestic industries against foreign competition,” the members continued. In an effort to ease some of the restrictions, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA-APHIS) has submitted a proposal to Japan that would protect against the importation of pests of concern, while also allowing market access for Washington apples. Japan has yet to respond. “As the United States continues its negotiations with Japan to improve the trade relationship between the two countries, we respectfully request that the U.S. convey to Japan the importance of increasing U.S. apple access, including responding to USDA-APHIS’s April 2017 systems approach protocol and timely consideration of any proposed changes to the current apple work plan,” the members concluded. In addition to Cantwell and Newhouse, the letter was signed by U.S. Senator Patty Murray, Rep. Adam Smith, Rep. Rick Larsen, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler, Rep. Suzan DelBene, Rep. Denny Heck, Rep. Derek Kilmer, Rep. Pramila Jayapal, and Rep. Kim Schrier. The full text of the letter can be found HERE.
02.27.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after voting ‘no’ on H.R. 8: “The Second Amendment is guaranteed by our Constitution to law-abiding citizens, and I voted against this legislation because it goes too far to infringe on that right without doing anything to prevent mass shootings,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Washington state law already requires expanded background checks, and this bill would go beyond state law and criminalize temporary private transfers so broadly that a victim of domestic violence who borrowed a firearm for self-defense could be deemed a criminal. It is unfortunate that this bill was so poorly drafted and rushed to the floor that it fails to define an ‘imminent’ threat, instead creating burdensome requirements for law-abiding citizens. Under this bill, if a farmer or rancher provided an employee with a firearm to deal with livestock predation, then that would be a criminal act. If Democrats want to work across the aisle to improve the enforcement of existing laws instead of creating burdens for law-abiding citizens, then let’s do that instead of targeting constitutional rights.” Click here for more information on H.R. 8. Click here for additional information, courtesy of the office of Rep. Richard Hudson (R-NC). The White House has made clear that this legislation would be vetoed
02.27.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after voting in favor of a bipartisan legislative package, S. 47, the Natural Resources Management Act, which included a provision to withdraw 340,000 acres in the Methow Valley from consideration for mining. The legislation passed the House last night in a vote of 363 to 62, and the Senate approved it on February 12, so it will now head to President Trump’s desk to be signed into law. “Passage of the bipartisan lands package with the Methow Valley provision, which I voted to support, represents a victory for the local community in North Central Washington,” said Rep. Newhouse. “While the community embraces resource development and has a long history of mining, it is also widely recognized that the Methow Headwaters is a natural wonder and is central to the region’s thriving recreational economy. I could not be more pleased that the legislation is headed to President Trump for his signature into law.”
02.26.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House of Representatives approved a legislative package that includes H.R. 1048, the Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project Phase III Act, on a vote of 363 to 62. H.R. 1048 authorizes Phase III of the Yakima River Basin Integrated Water Resource Management Plan, an initiative to better accommodate the water needs of the agricultural community, conservationists, residents, and other stakeholders in the Yakima River Basin region. The Senate approved the legislation on February 12, so it will now head to President Trump’s desk to be signed into law. “I commend my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for approving this legislation to authorize the next phase of the Yakima Basin Project,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This has been a years-long bipartisan, bicameral effort, and the credit belongs to the state and local stakeholders, agriculture community, irrigators, conservationists, and tribes of the Yakima Integrated Plan Workgroup and Implementation Committee who worked together and compromised to find solutions. Their collaboration offers a national model for water resource management solutions, and it opened the door for Congress to act to support the state and local efforts in meeting the diverse water needs of the Yakima Basin. Because this project involves federal land, Congress must pass this legislation to allow implementation to continue, and I thank my colleagues for their strong support of this bill. The bill now heads to President Trump’s desk for his signature into law.” CLICK HERE TO WATCH REP. NEWHOUSE SPEAK IN SUPPORT OF YAKIMA BASIN LEGISLATION Transcript: Mr. Speaker, I rise enthusiastically today to support this package that the House is considering; it includes one of my bills, the Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project Phase III Act. This legislation authorizes the next phase of the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan, which is a decades-long effort to address the vital water needs of the ag community, conservationists, and certainly my constituents throughout the Yakima Basin. Mr. Speaker, I have not only worked on this project for the last three Congresses, but I hate to say it: My efforts go back even further—almost 30 years, more than I’d like to admit—as a farmer, former state legislator, and as director of the [Washington] State Department of Agriculture. But today demonstrates the closest we’ve ever come to sending this crucial legislation to the President to sign into law. I firmly believe that the [Yakima Basin Integrated Plan Workgroup and Implementation Committee] are a model for the rest of the nation to follow to address divisive issues. I invite all of my colleagues to come see for themselves. This group represents a diverse array of local, tribal, state, federal, ag, environmental, and private interests—and they have worked through decades of painstaking compromise, collaboration, and efforts to find solutions. So I rise to thank all of them for their hard work. All of the tribal leaders, the state and federal partners, the commissioners of the counties, conservation organizations, the cities and local irrigation representatives. And certainly, the Natural Resources [Committee], staff who have worked very hard on this all along, including Mr. Bill Ball. Without their hard work and deep commitment to addressing this comprehensive issue, we would not be as close as we are today in getting this crucial step done. I urge strong support of all my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for this package of legislation that we consider today. Click here to read Rep. Newhouse’s recent op-ed in the Yakima Herald Republic. BACKGROUND: Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project: The Yakima River Basin is one of the leading agricultural regions in Washington State and throughout the country. The orchardists, wine grape growers, and other members of the agricultural community inject approximately $3.2 billion into Washington’s economy and support countless jobs in the area. However, the demand for water in the region currently exceeds the resources available, especially during times of drought, which have hit the state especially hard in the past few years. As a result, water use has been restricted for junior water rights holders - or individuals who obtained water rights in 1905 or later – during times of shortages. With researchers predicting that drought seasons will only become more common and get worse as snowpack in the mountains continues to decline, action needs to be taken so that stakeholders in the Yakima Basin can continue operating without having to worry about whether or not they will be able to water their crops or their backyard garden. As the nation has seen with extreme water problems in California, we must be proactive and have a viable plan in place should intense drought hit Washington. After years of tough negotiations, the Yakima River Basin Plan offers a solution that will give water users more certainty, while also recognizing the concerns of conservationists and the various stakeholders in the Yakima Basin. Specifically, the Yakima River Basin Plan would: Provide greater water supply reliability for farmers and communities. Secure the water that communities need to meet current and future demand. Protect over 200,000 acres of currently unprotected forest, shrub steppe, and river habitat. Enhance habitat along the Yakima River and its tributaries. Implement water marketing and banking so that water is more easily delivered when and where needed. Build fish passage to allow salmon, steelhead, and bull trout to travel throughout the basin.
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after voting to approve the Conference Report to Accompany H.J. Res. 31 - Consolidated Appropriations Act to fund operations of the federal government and secure the border. “This bipartisan deal may not go as far as I would like, but it is a compromise that makes significant progress on President Trump’s border security request while keeping the government open,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I have visited the Southern border firsthand and have heard directly from Border Patrol agents who say they need additional resources to do their job. This legislation makes substantive strides to provide tools they need to address the crisis at the border by including $2.5 billion for border barriers, technology, and personnel for the remaining seven months of the fiscal year. Congress must continue to build off this success to give our men and women of the Border Patrol the tools they need to do their job.” Rep. Newhouse continued: “The legislation contains appropriations priorities I worked to include such as keeping proprietary and personal SNAP data private and providing for hops research. I am pleased the Committee heard my concerns that the best available science must be used to assess whether the gray wolf should continue to be listed as ‘endangered’ in the lower 48 states. It also includes my language to take natural disasters and other factors into account when making grazing allotments available to western ranchers. Finally, my language was included to ensure that our wine, spirits, and craft beer industry has the ability to utilize the export program as authorized under the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015.” Legislation highlights: BORDER SECURITY – Funding for border barriers, border technology, personnel, and ICE detention beds Over $2.5 billion for border barriers, surveillance, and technology $1.375 billion to build 55 miles of new barriers in the Rio Grande Valley, the highest priority area identified by CBP Over $660 million border surveillance technology and Non-Intrusive Inspection equipment and land Ports of Entry $272 million for construction and facility improvements at processing centers along the border Funds 45,274 detention beds - there are no caps on detention beds and preserves ICE’s reprogramming flexibility Increases the number of immigration judge teams from 395 at the end of FY18 to 534 AGRICULTURE – Language on SNAP retailers sales data, hops research, and wine/spirits/craft beer export program · SNAP Redemption o (Report Language) Retailer SNAP sales data could contain proprietary and confidential information. Should such information be made publicly available, USDA is directed to make every effort to protect confidential business information likely to cause harm to the competitive position in the retail industry, especially small grocery stores and small grocery stores in rural areas. Personal information about individual SNAP participants should also remain confidential. · Hops research o (Report Language) The conferees do not accept the President's budget request regarding the termination of research programs, redirections of research programs, or closure of research locations. The conferees expect extramural research to be funded at no less than the fiscal year 2018 levels. The conferees provide funding increases for cotton ginning, alfalfa, small grains genomics, postharvest dairy research, marine aquaculture seedstock, sugarcane, high performance computing, sugar beets, salmonella, the Pollinator Center, warmwater aquaculture, poultry, fruit fly and exotic pest control, chronic wasting disease, the Pulse Crop Health Initiative, coffee 6 germplasm, citrus germplasm, feed enhancement, food systems at land-grant institutions, greenhouse technology, long-term agro-ecosystem research, hops research, resilient dryland research, wheat and sorghum, shellfish genetics, sudden oak death, industrial hemp, oats, cranberry and blueberry research, whitefly research, and human nutrition. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY · Duty drawback o (Report language) The conferees remain concerned with the duty drawback program, including the Accelerated Payment privilege and directs CBP to comply with the direction in House Report 115-948. o House Report 115-948: The duty drawback program, including the Accelerated Payment privilege, is an important export-promotion tool for U.S. manufacturers, exporters, and workers. Accelerated Payment claims must meet all applicable legal requirements for a complete claim using the calculation methodology that is established by CBP regulation. The Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 (TFTEA) significantly changed the circumstances under which drawback can be claimed, and required the development of a new drawback calculation methodology to be codified in an updated regulation. The Committee understands that review of the proposed regulation has taken a significant amount of time, but TFTEA was explicit in requiring that the regulations for determining the calculation of amounts refunded as drawback be prescribed within two years of the date of enactment, or February 24, 2018. The Committee finds the lack of progress towards meeting this statutory requirement to be unacceptable, particularly because it undermines the one-year transition period for allowing drawback claims under both the new and old rule, which is set to expire on February 24, 2019. Therefore, the Committee directs DHS, Treasury, and OMB to take immediate steps to: (1) expedite the completion of the regulation; (2) provide the Committee and the Committee on Ways and Means with an anticipated completion timeline; and (3) provide updates to the Committee and the Committee on Ways and Means every 60 days on progress until the completion and release of the regulation. INTERIOR – Language on gray wolf and grazing · Gray wolf o (Report Language) The Conferees recognize the Service's recent commitment to work closely with Federal, State, Tribal and local partners to assess the currently listed gray wolf entities in the Lower 48 States using the best available scientific information, and if appropriate, publish a proposal to revise the wolfs status in the Federal Register by the end of the calendar year. · Grazing o (Report Language) The Service is directed, to the greatest extent practicable, to make vacant grazing allotments available to a holder of a grazing permit or lease when lands covered by the holder of the permit or lease are unusable because of drought or wildfire. · Wildland Firefighting and Prevention o In total, the bill funds wildland firefighting and prevention programs at $3.9 billion, fully funding the 10-year average for wildland fire suppression costs for both the Department of the Interior and the Forest Service. *Please note: Congress previously passed “mini-bus” legislation that comprised the remaining appropriations bills for FY 2019. Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 5895, Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act. H.R. 6157, the Department of Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Act, 2019 and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2019.
02.13.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) participated in a Capitol Hill press conference with Rep. Will Hurd (R-TX) and advocates including LIBRE, Americans for Prosperity, National Immigration Forum, FWD.US, and Dreamers to urge that Congress act on a bipartisan legislative solution for beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program that can get 218 votes in the House, 60 votes in the Senate, and the President’s signature into law. Transcript of Rep. Newhouse’s remarks: Good afternoon, everybody. Thank you for being here, thank you for lending your presence on such an important issue. I’m proud to stand with the people in this country who deserve – finally – a solution to such an important problem that they face. DACA individuals in this country are truly a huge asset to the United States of America, and I can tell you with certainty. I have sat down with many of them personally. In fact, out of the seventeen-plus thousand in the state of Washington, more than a third of those are in my congressional district. I have met with many of them and know firsthand exactly what you’re saying, Daniel [Garza of LIBRE]: that they truly have a tremendous amount to offer our country, and they want to be able to do that. It’s time for us to be able to come together in a bipartisan way and find that solution that is really right in front of us. In fact, I believe that today we should be on the verge of signing important legislation with that DACA solution. That should be what we are discussing right now in these budget negotiations that are happening and that I hope we can pass this week. I think it truly is a missed opportunity to finally put this issue behind us and bring a positive solution to thousands of people throughout this country. I’m glad you’re here. I think your presence and your personal stories – that’s what’s going to make this happen. So thank you for sticking your necks out and being at the forefront of this struggle. I think we’re almost there, but with your help, we will get there. With your message to everybody in Congress, I think that we’re going to be successful here very, very soon. So let’s keep the pressure on, keep the fight going, and then we can celebrate a success here very, very soon. It is my huge honor to be able to introduce to you one of my favorite colleagues, Mr. Will Hurd, that represents a beautiful part of the United States, the southern part of Texas. My classmate in the 114th Congress, Mr. Will Hurd, my friend. CLICK HERE TO WATCH REP NEWHOUSE’S REMARKS
02.12.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) released the following statements after the U.S. Senate approved a bipartisan lands package authored by Senator Cantwell and Senator Lisa Murkowsi (R-AK). The Senate-approved package includes legislation to authorize Phase III of the Yakima River Basin Integrated Water Resource Management Plan, an initiative to better accommodate the water needs of the agricultural community, conservationists, residents, and other stakeholders in the Yakima River Basin region. Last week, Rep. Newhouse introduced bipartisan House legislation, H.R. 1048, the Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project Phase III Act, with Rep. Kim Schrier (D-WA), to show bicameral support for authorizing the Yakima Basin Project. “I congratulate Senator Cantwell on securing Senate passage of the bipartisan lands package that includes the legislation we worked on to authorize the next phase of the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I will continue to work across party lines to support House passage and send this bill to President Trump to sign into law.” “Water issues are not going to go away. We need to we give communities across the West the tools to deal with the changing climate and the impacts of less and less water,” said Cantwell. “Passing this bill represents important new tools to fight our water challenges and to move forward in a way that I think will prove to be an example of what we should be doing in other parts of the United States.”
02.08.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) announced that he has been appointed by House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) to serve on the bipartisan Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress. The Select Committee was established at the start of the 116th Congress to hold hearings and study ways to improve and modernize the operation of Congress. “I look forward to this opportunity to work in a bipartisan manner to find substantive ways to improve the legislative branch, designed by our Founders to be the closest and most responsive to We the People,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I am grateful to Leader McCarthy for this appointment, and I look forward to serving on the Committee with fellow Washingtonians, Chairman Derek Kilmer and Congresswoman Suzan DelBene.” Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA): “I am proud to name Congressman Dan Newhouse to serve on the House Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress. Dan’s dedication to an efficient, effective, and accountable government will contribute to this effort as the committee looks to bring the House of Representatives into the 21st century.” According to Title II of the 116th Congress House rules package which established the Select Committee, “the sole authority of the Select Committee shall be to investigate, study, make findings, hold public hearings, and develop recommendations on modernizing Congress, including recommendations on— rules to promote a more modern and efficient Congress; procedures, including the schedule and calendar; policies to develop the next generation of leaders; staff recruitment, diversity, retention, and compensation and benefits; administrative efficiencies, including purchasing, travel, outside services, and shared administrative staff; technology and innovation; and the work of the House Commission on Congressional Mailing Standards. Rep. Newhouse also serves on the House Appropriations Committee, which exercises jurisdiction over all federal discretionary spending.
02.07.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Rep. Kim Schrier (D-WA) introduced H.R. 1048, the Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project Phase III Act. The legislation authorizes Phase III of the Yakima River Basin Integrated Water Resource Management Plan, an initiative to better accommodate the water needs of the agricultural community, conservationists, residents, and other stakeholders in the Yakima River Basin region. “The next phase of the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan is critical for the current needs and future growth of one of the richest agriculture regions in the West,” said Rep. Newhouse. “It also provides a national model of collaboration between members of a diverse group that includes the interests of state and local stakeholders, irrigators, conservationists, tribes, and fish passage. I am proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation in alignment with Senator Maria Cantwell’s effort in the Senate. Working across party lines, we can accomplish this long-held infrastructure priority for Central Washington.” Rep. Schrier: “The Yakima Basin Integrated Plan is a critical step towards ensuring Washington State has a reliable water supply for years to come. This approach takes into account the concerns of groups with varying and sometimes conflicting needs and interests, including our farmers, Tribes, and conservationists. Our hope is that this can be a model of collaboration for the rest of the country. I applaud Rep. Newhouse and Sen. Cantwell for their years of work on this important project and am proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation with Rep. Newhouse.” Scott Revell, District Manager of the Roza Irrigation District: “Irrigated agriculture makes Yakima a top agricultural producer, not only for the state, but the nation. The Yakima Basin Integrated Plan provides a path for our irrigation districts to make it through droughts and low snowpack and support important fisheries. We are doing things differently in the Yakima these days, including having irrigation districts pay for constructing federal water supply infrastructure like the Kachess Drought Relief Pumping Plant. Thanks to Rep. Newhouse for his hard work.” Urban Eberhart, District Manager of the Kittitas Reclamation District: “Federal legislation is essential to the progress of the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan and Kittitas County.” Wendy McDermott of American Rivers: “Salmon, steelhead and bull trout in the Yakima basin were nearly wiped out due to the way we historically managed water, but with the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan, there is a real future for these iconic fish in the Yakima. This helps both people and species like the orca.” Lisa Pelly of Trout Unlimited: “Thanks to the Congressional delegation representing the Yakima, the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan is moving forward. We appreciate Rep. Newhouse working to get this federal bill moving. It’s a great way to start the Congress.” Phil Rigdon, Deputy Director, Yakama Nation Department of Natural Resources: "The Wapato Irrigation Project, located on the Yakama Nation reservation, is in desperate need of infrastructure improvement. This bill will help to improve the irrigation project and allow much more precise use of water, benefiting both salmon and farmers.” Tom Tebb, Director of the Washington Department of Ecology Office of Columbia River: "For decades we (the state of Washington) have partnered with the Bureau of Reclamation to achieve water security in the Yakima Basin. This federal support is crucial to keeping the momentum going and leverage the state, federal, irrigation, tribal and environmental investments made to date. We couldn’t be more excited." The legislation is identical to Senator Maria Cantwell’s (D-WA) legislation in the Senate. The Cantwell legislation is included in a comprehensive package of land-use and natural resources bills, S. 47, the Natural Resources Management Act, which is currently on the Senate floor for consideration this week. The legislation is expected to pass the Senate and then be sent to the U.S. House of Representatives. BACKGROUND: Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project: The Yakima River Basin is one of the leading agricultural regions in Washington State and throughout the country. The orchardists, wine grape growers, and other members of the agricultural community inject approximately $3.2 billion into Washington’s economy and support countless jobs in the area. However, the demand for water in the region currently exceeds the resources available, especially during times of drought, which have hit the state especially hard in the past few years. As a result, water use has been restricted for junior water rights holders - or individuals who obtained water rights in 1905 or later – during times of shortages. With researchers predicting that drought seasons will only become more common and get worse as snowpack in the mountains continues to decline, action needs to be taken so that stakeholders in the Yakima Basin can continue operating without having to worry about whether or not they will be able to water their crops or their backyard garden. As the nation has seen with extreme water problems in California, we must be proactive and have a viable plan in place should intense drought hit Washington. After years of tough negotiations, the Yakima River Basin Plan offers a solution that will give water users more certainty, while also recognizing the concerns of conservationists and the various stakeholders in the Yakima Basin. Specifically, the Yakima River Basin Plan would: Provide greater water supply reliability for farmers and communities. Secure the water that communities need to meet current and future demand. Protect over 200,000 acres of currently unprotected forest, shrub steppe, and river habitat. Enhance habitat along the Yakima River and its tributaries. Implement water marketing and banking so that water is more easily delivered when and where needed. Build fish passage to allow salmon, steelhead, and bull trout to travel throughout the basin.
02.04.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statements after Democrats in the U.S. Senate blocked passage of the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, which would require medical care for newborn infants who have survived attempted abortion. The legislation was introduced by Senator Ben Sasse (R-NE), who brought it to the Senate floor. Click here to see Sen. Sasse’s statement. Rep. Newhouse (R-WA): “It doesn’t matter how they have entered this world; providing medical care for babies who have just been born is a human rights issue. The recent remarks made by the governor of Virginia show the need to take a stand against infanticide. I am deeply disappointed that the U.S. Senate – and senator from Washington state – could not come to unanimous agreement to approve legislation to require medical care for newborn children. This is a debate that goes beyond partisan politics. This is about the value our society places on newborn children.” Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA): “It’s heartbreaking that extreme party politics just superseded the principle of basic human dignity. With technology today, we can look into the womb and we can see the development of the baby day-by-day. It’s the most amazing thing in the world. I urge Democrats in the Senate who blocked the Born Alive Abortion Protection Act to take a step back, look at the science, and consider what this means. It should be unthinkable to end the life of a living baby.” In 2018, Rep. Newhouse cosponsored and voted for H.R. 4712, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, which passed the House of Representatives.
01.31.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has awarded $200 million to 57 organizations through the Agricultural Trade Promotion Program (ATP) to help U.S. farmers and ranchers identify and access new export markets. “Secretary Perdue’s announcement of increased support for agriculture trade is good news for farmers affected by unfair trade retaliation across the nation and in the Pacific Northwest,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This increase helps to mitigate some of the losses suffered by local producers. I have been a strong supporter of trade and export market development programs to even the playing field and strengthen American agriculture’s ability to compete for international customers.” In the 115th Congress, Rep. Newhouse led 43 members in a bipartisan request to the House Committee on Agriculture expressing strong support for the USDA trade and export market development programs at the Foreign Agriculture Service (FAS) in the 2018 Farm Bill. The Members requested in a letter that House Agriculture Committee leaders reauthorize the USDA’s Market Access Program (MAP) and Foreign Market Development Program (FMD). The ATP is one of three USDA programs created to mitigate the effects of unjustified trade retaliation against U.S. farmers and exporters. USDA’s Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) accepted ATP applications between September 4 and November 2 – totaling nearly $600 million – from U.S. trade associations, cooperatives, and other industry-affiliated organizations. USDA has released a list of the ATP funding recipients. President Donald J. Trump authorized up to $12 billion in programs to provide assistance to U.S. agriculture through a trade mitigation package announced by Secretary Perdue on September 4, 2018. In addition to the $200 million allocated to the ATP, the package also included the Market Facilitation Program to provide payments to farmers harmed by retaliatory tariffs, and a food purchase and distribution program to assist producers of targeted commodities.
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) announced that he will continue to serve on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies, the Subcommittee on Homeland Security, and the Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch. Rep. Newhouse previously served on all three subcommittees in the 115th Congress. “I am very pleased to continue to have the honor to serve on Appropriations subcommittees with jurisdiction on vital interests for Central Washington,” said Rep. Newhouse. “These subcommittees will continue to allow me to work to reform to our broken immigration system and improve agriculture labor programs, to provide strong funding levels for Hanford cleanup, to provide support for critical water infrastructure projects like the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan, and to fund research at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. I look forward to serving under the leadership of Ranking Member Kay Granger to steward federal spending on behalf of American taxpayers.” Ranking Member Kay Granger (R-TX): “Rep. Newhouse brings the unique perspective of a Pacific Northwest farmer and small businessman to the Appropriations Committee and has been an active advocate for America’s agriculture. I am glad to welcome him on the team as we exercise Congress’ power of the purse to fix the appropriations process and advance conservative values in the 116th Congress.” The Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies appropriates funding for the Department of Energy, the Department of the Interior, Bonneville Power Administration, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and other agencies. Additionally, Energy and Water Development oversees spending for federal water projects and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Department of Interior, and the Bureau of Reclamation, which are critical for the next phase of the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan and irrigation in the West. The Subcommittee on Homeland Security appropriates all funding for the Department of Homeland Security and its agencies. Rep. Newhouse has worked on this subcommittee to improve the nation’s broken immigration system. The Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch is responsible for federal appropriations for the offices of Members of the House of Representatives, the support agencies of Congress, security and police forces, services for visitors, and Capitol operations and maintenance. The House Appropriations Committee exercises jurisdiction over all federal discretionary spending. The House Appropriations Committee is designated as an exclusive committee, with members limited to serving on the panel and generally not assigned to serve on additional committees.
01.25.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on President Trump’s announced an agreement to temporarily reopen the federal government until February 15, 2019. The House of Representatives passed a continuing resolution by unanimous consent and will resume negotiations to fully fund the government and provide border security. “Democrats have finally agreed to come together with Republicans to negotiate on a Homeland Security package that will include funding for a physical barrier on the southern border,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Speaker Pelosi previously said she was willing to give only one dollar to President Trump’s border security proposal, and since January 9th, she has refused to meet with the President on the path forward. I am glad all sides have agreed to negotiations. Reopening the government to allow for hard-working federal employees to be paid while these negotiations happen is the right thing to do. President Trump has remained strong on his goal to secure our border and increase safety for Americans. I think these negotiations are a great opportunity to discuss broader immigration reforms, like solutions to improve agriculture labor, give certainty to DACA recipients, and other priorities for the people of Central Washington. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee to find a solution that funds the government and fixes border security.”
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after House Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced her refusal to pass a resolution to allow President Trump to give the State of the Union address in the House chamber: “After inviting President Trump to give the State of the Union address, Speaker Nancy Pelosi backtracked and now refuses to authorize the State of the Union address in the House chamber,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Speaker Pelosi’s reversal is an unprecedented attempt to impede the President of the United States from performing his constitutional duty laid out in Article II to ‘give the Congress information of the State of the Union.’ House Democrats began their majority this year by obstructing the President and refusing to negotiate with him or Republicans on funding border security and reopening the federal government, and this move continues their obstruction. The House of Representatives should override Speaker Pelosi’s obstruction and vote to allow the President’s State of the Union to go on as planned.”
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) announced that he has been nominated by the House Republican Steering Committee to serve on the influential House Appropriations Committee in the 116th Congress. The House Appropriations Committee is designated as an exclusive committee, with members limited to serving on the panel and generally not assigned to serve on additional committees. “I am grateful to continue to serve on the powerful Appropriations Committee, which allows me to advocate for Central Washington on any issue related to federal discretionary spending,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I will continue to be a strong voice on behalf of Pacific Northwest agriculture and fulfilling the federal government’s legal and moral obligation to finish cleaning up Hanford, which are top priorities for Central Washington. Divided government should not mean dysfunctional government: I look forward to working with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to put taxpayers first when fulfilling our constitutional power of the purse.” The House Appropriations Committee exercises jurisdiction over all federal discretionary spending.
01.22.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Energy Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) announced the award of a contract to build a new energy sciences research building at PNNL. “PNNL’s Energy Sciences Capability Project keeps our National Lab’s work at the forefront of science,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I have worked hard to secure robust federal support for this effort and am pleased to see the project progressing. The Tri-Cities community is proud to provide a home to this state-of-the-art research facility, where innovation will benefit the entire country and support local jobs and economic growth.” Rep. Newhouse supported House passage of appropriations legislation signed into law by President Trump in 2018 to support the Energy Sciences Capability Project.
01.19.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on President Trump’s announcement of a proposal to reopen the federal government, secure the Southern border, and give certainty to DACA recipients.“President Trump today laid out a reasonable compromise to break the funding and border security stalemate that has resulted in a partial government shutdown,” said Rep. Newhouse. “President Trump has offered to give legal certainty to DACA recipients as part of a deal to secure the border and reopen the federal government. In addition, the President announced that after this initial proposal passes he will convene weekly bipartisan meetings to fundamentally reform our broken immigration system including helping farmers and working on the President’s previous offer providing a pathway to citizenship for DACA eligible individuals. “Before the President had even spoken, Speaker Nancy Pelosi already rejected a deal. If Democrats are serious about reopening the federal government and giving certainty to DACA recipients, then they must come to the table to support a common sense compromise instead of simply obstructing the President.”
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) announced that he has nominated 11 students across Central Washington for consideration to attend U.S. military academies including West Point, the Naval Academy, and the Air Force Academy. The nominations followed an interview process that included Rep. Newhouse’s military academy advisory board, and the final determination for admittance will be made by the respective academies. The honor of attending a service academy comes with the obligation and commitment to serve in the military for a minimum of five years upon graduation. “Every year, I have the honor of nominating students from Central Washington to attend one of our nation’s prestigious Military Service Academies,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I am always impressed by the academic success and personal accomplishments of the young people who strive to serve our country. I am grateful for my nomination board that helped to review applicants, and I am very proud of the nominees we have recommended. I wish them the best of luck as they continue through the application process.” U.S. Air Force Academy Nominees Ryan Child of Kennewick Ryan is a senior at Kamiakin High School and the son of Scott and Viola Child. Brian Dean of Richland Brian is a senior at Richland High School and the son of Robert and JoAnna Dean. Kori Fay of Richland Kori is a senior at Robinson Secondary School in Fairfax, Virginia and the daughter of Timothy and Kathleen Fay. Nathan Haggard of Richland Nathan is a graduate at Richland High School and the son of Brad and Patricia Haggard. Nathan currently attends Columbia Basin College. Jonathan Leach of Tonasket Jonathan is a senior at Camden Military Academy in Camden, South Carolina and the son of Michael Turnington and Janine Turnington. Jacobe Lee of Richland Jacobe is a graduate at Richland High School and the son of Jason and Heather Lee. Jacobe currently attends U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School. Brayden McCarley of Kennewick Brayden is a senior at Kennewick High School and the son of Samuel and Nakra McCarley. William Middlebrooks of Selah William is a senior at Selah High School and the son of Trent and Leah Middlebrooks. Aditya Subramanian of West Richland Aditya is a senior at Hanford High School and the son of Kasthik and Radhika Subramanian. U.S. Military Academy at West Point Nominees Tyler Birchenough of Richland Tyler is a senior at Richland High School and the son of Robert and Jennifer Birchenough. Kori Fay of Richland Kori is a senior at Robinson Secondary School in Fairfax, Virginia and the daughter of Timothy and Kathleen Fay. William Middlebrooks of Selah William is a senior at Selah High School and the son of Trent and Leah Middlebrooks. U.S. Naval Academy Nominees Tyler Birchenough of Richland Tyler is a senior at Richland High School and the son of Robert and Jennifer Birchenough. David Jimenez of Mabton David is a graduate at Sunnyside High School and the son of Jose and Maria Jimenez. David currently attends Stanford University. Jonathan Leach of Tonasket Jonathan is a senior at Camden Military Academy in Camden, South Carolina and the son of Michael Leach and Janine Turnington. Brayden McCarley of Kennewick Brayden is a senior at Kennewick High School and the son of Samuel and Nakra McCarley. Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. For more information on next year’s nominations, contact Rep. Newhouse’s Yakima office at 402 E. Yakima Avenue, Suite 1000 and (509) 452-3243.
01.08.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after re-introducing legislation to transfer title of U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) related works and lands to the Kennewick Irrigation District (KID). H.R. 278 is identical to legislation the House of Representatives approved before the end of the 115th Congress, but the Senate failed to act on the bill before the 115th Congress adjourned. In accordance with the December 2017 Memorandum of Agreement between KID and BOR, this legislation will transfer title of works beginning at KID’s head gate and extending 40 miles east to the Columbia River. The transfer includes the conveyance of land and project facilities and should be completed no later than two years after the enactment. “Had the Senate acted promptly, this legislation to give more local control to Central Washington water users would already have been signed into law,” said Rep. Newhouse. “By reintroducing this bill for this Congress, I am continuing to push for responsive, local management of the Kennewick Irrigation District.” Click here to read the text of H.R. 278. Background: H.R. 278 conveys title for the facilities managed and operated by Kennewick Irrigation District (KID). It does not privatize federal water projects or properties within the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (BOR). KID will complete an environmental assessment under the National Environmental Policy Act, as well as all necessary Endangered Species Act, National Historical Preservation Act, and hazardous review processes. KID and BOR have committed to ensuring that all stakeholders, tribal concerns, and local interests have a seat at the table throughout the process. In addition to ensuring the proper reviews are completed, KID will repay their allocated share of construction costs to the federal government.
01.03.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA), released the following statement after taking the oath of office in the official swearing-in ceremony to represent Washington’s Fourth Congressional District in the 116th Congress: “To be entrusted with this office to represent the people of Central Washington in Congress is a distinct honor,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Today I swore an oath to defend the Constitution of the United States and the liberties safeguarded by our founding document. In this period of divided government, it is Congress’ responsibility to find common ground, work with our President, and together make progress on the American people’s priorities including advancing immigration reform and border security. Upon being sworn in, one of my first votes was to make tax relief permanent for middle class families. I immediately cosponsored legislation that reflects the values of the people of the Fourth District. I am grateful for this opportunity to serve.” Click here for photo Rep. Newhouse voted in favor of the Republican Motion to Refer H. Res. 5 - Providing for consideration of H. Res. 6, H.R. 21, & H.J. Res. 1, which would make permanent the doubling of the child tax credit and the standard deduction which were provisions in the historic tax bill signed into law last year. Unfortunately, not a single Democrat joined with Republicans to support middle class tax relief. Rep. Newhouse immediately cosponsored the following bills and resolutions at the start of the 116th Congress: H.J. Res XX, sponsored by Rep. Steve Womack (R-AR), would propose an amendment to the Constitution of the United States giving Congress power to prohibit the physical desecration of the flag of the United States. H.R. XX, No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act, sponsored by Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ), would make the Hyde Amendment and other current abortion funding prohibitions permanent and government-wide, and it ensures that the Affordable Care Act faithfully conforms to the Hyde Amendment. H.R. XX, Death Tax Repeal Act, sponsored by Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-TX), to repeal permanently the Death Tax, which negatively affects family-owned businesses, farms, and ranches throughout the country. H.R. XX, the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2019, sponsored by Rep. Richard Hudson (R-NC), will ensure that valid concealed carry permits issued in one state are valid in other states that recognize their own residents’ right to concealed carry. The bill allows each state to retain the ability to permit persons or entities to prohibit the possession of concealed firearms on their property as well as restrict the possession of firearms on any state or local government property. The individual engaging in concealed carry must carry valid identification containing their photograph as well as a valid concealed carry license or permit at all times. The bill ensures that the burden of proof is placed on the state to show that an individual violated state law and provides additional legal protections in the form of attorney’s fees and damages for plaintiff’s who are victorious in civil suits and criminal proceedings.
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on the service of Secretary of Defense James Mattis: "I am grateful for Secretary Mattis’ honorable service,” said Rep. Newhouse. “A fellow Washingtonian, he has served our nation with distinction. Every Americans can be proud of his record both in uniform as a U.S. Marine and as Secretary of Defense. He has shown himself to be a man who exemplifies duty and patriotism and a true role model for every young Tri-Citian.”
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after attending the White House signing ceremony of the 2018 Farm Bill, Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 2 - Agriculture Improvement Act. Last week, the U.S. House of Representatives voted 369-47 to pass the Farm Bill. “Thank you, President Trump, for signing this critical legislation on behalf of Farm Country,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The 2018 Farm Bill is a major accomplishment that gives Central Washington farmers and agriculture producers across the country much-needed certainty and a secure safety net.” Additionally today, U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue announced a proposed rule intended to move more able-bodied recipients of Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits to self-sufficiency through the dignity of work. The rule proposed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) focuses on work-related program requirements for able-bodied adults without dependents. The rule would apply to non-disabled people, between the ages of 18 and 49, with no dependents. The rule would not apply to the elderly, the disabled, or pregnant women. Click here to read additional highlights of the Farm Bill Conference Report. Click here to read a summary of the Farm Bill Conference Report. Click here to read the Farm Bill Conference Report text. CLICK HERE TO WATCH REP. NEWHOUSE SPEAK IN SUPPORT OF THE 2018 FARM BILL Transcript: Mr. Speaker, earlier this year—as the House considered its version of the Farm Bill—I spoke in this chamber about a Farm Bill listening tour that I had conducted in my own District, traveling to every county that I represent to hear from and listen to input and the concerns from farmers, ranchers, and producers across the State of Washington. In the days since then the House passed that bill early this summer, there has been growing concern that the job would not get done—that the 2014 Farm Bill would expire and that our nation’s Farm Country would be left without the crucial tools this legislation provides to strengthen the farm safety net and provide certainty and flexibility to America’s farmers and ranchers. Fortunately, with the legislation before us today, we can report that this is not the case. After months of painstaking negotiations between the House and Senate conferees, we have an agreement before us. This agreement, while not including several provisions that I would have liked to have seen, sets us on a better path for our farmers and ranchers, for our rural communities, for small businesses, and for consumers across the country at the grocery store and at kitchen tables. With this conference agreement to the Farm Bill, I can go back to my District and confidently report to my constituents that we have provided a strong foundation to help our farmers survive a 50-percent drop in net farm income over the past five years. I can go back to Okanogan County and tell my constituents in Pateros that we have strengthened market access programs and provided strong resources to open new sources for exporting across the globe. I can tell farmers in Grant County that we have protected crop insurance and made several key improvements, including for whole farm revenue coverage for specialty crop producers. I can tell dairy producers in Yakima County that we have improved the dairy safety net for large, mid-sized, and small dairies. I can report back to producers in Prosser in Benton County, who stressed the importance of agricultural research, that we have provided an increase in funding for research, for extension, and for education projects. With the bill before us, I can let key agricultural partners in our community like Washington State University know that we will keep American agriculture at the forefront of innovation and productivity. Farmers from East Wenatchee will hear from me that this Farm Bill invests in critical cost-share and incentive-based programs to help farm families improve our soil, water, and other natural resources. And I can tell farmers in Othello in Adams County, concerned with the regulatory burdens on their shoulders, that this legislation protects our producers from costly additional, unnecessary red tape. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to rise today as a third-generation farmer to say that this Farm Bill takes strong steps to address challenges facing America’s agricultural community. The rule we bring before the House provides for further consideration of the Conference Report to H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act, legislation that is critically important to my District in Central Washington, and to rural districts across this great country. This legislation maintains and strengthens important policies like Price Loss Coverage, Agriculture Risk Coverage, Commodity Loans, Dairy Margin Coverage, Livestock Disaster Programs, and Crop Insurance. It enhances and permanently funds the Foreign Market Development Program and Technical Assistance for Specialty Crops, which are so vital for export-driven agricultural economies like my State of Washington has. It increases funding for land grant universities, research, extension, and education, as well as special research initiatives, including for specialty crops and organic research. This legislation makes strides to expand quality broadband to all of rural America by including forward-looking standards to ensure that we are meeting next-generation rural broadband needs. It also improves the tools available to reduce forest fuel loads that increase the size and force of catastrophic wildfires. By renewing key categorical exclusions and expanding its purpose to allow for expedited reduction of hazardous fuels in our forests, we can continue to reduce the threat that these wildfires pose on rural communities. Mr. Speaker, with support from the 2014 Farm Bill, American farmers have been able to combat depressed prices and severe drops in farm income, but they would not have been able to do so without a robust safety net in place. The Conference Report before us will build upon this effort and ensure a steady food supply will be on the shelves and in our markets for years to come. As I mentioned, it doesn’t include everything I would have liked to have seen in this bill—but in reality no piece of legislation is perfect, particularly comprehensive bills that have been negotiated for months. But the fact of the matter is, this Farm Bill includes important and significant wins for American farmers and ranchers, and it is now our responsibility to get the job done. Mr. Speaker, the People’s House has more than 20 farmers, ranchers, and producers serving in this body. Among us are a dairyman from Central California, a blueberry farmer from Maine, a rancher from South Dakota, two rice farmers—one from California and another from Minnesota—a cattleman from Kentucky, an almond farmer from California, and yes—a proud hops farmer from the Yakima Valley of Washington state. This is the first Farm Bill that I have had the opportunity to engage in since being in Congress, Mr. Speaker. I’ve spent my whole life on the farm—and my life in public service, including serving as Washington State’s Director of the Department of Agriculture, has been spent working on behalf of American farmers, ranchers, rural communities, and families. It is an honor today to bring this rule forward for the Conference Report to Accompany the Farm Bill—H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act. I humbly urge my colleagues to support the rule, support the bill, and strengthen the future for America’s farmers and all those who depend upon them.
12.19.2018	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House of Representatives by a bipartisan vote of 358 to 1 approved federal legislation he introduced, H.R. 6652, to transfer title of U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) related works and lands to the Kennewick Irrigation District (KID). In accordance with the December 2017 Memorandum of Agreement between KID and BOR, this legislation will transfer title of works beginning at KID’s head gate and extending 40 miles east to the Columbia River. The transfer includes the conveyance of land and project facilities and should be completed no later than two years after the enactment. The legislation must now be approved by the Senate. “Local resources should be responsively managed by local entities wherever possible, and that’s what my legislation will ensure on behalf of the Kennewick Irrigation District,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This is a big improvement for Central Washington water users, and I’m proud that the House passed my bill. I urge my Senate colleagues to act before the end of the year so that this legislation can be signed into law.” Rep. Newhouse gave a speech on the floor of the House earlier today on the legislation: Click here to watch Rep. Newhouse speak on House floor in support of H.R. 6652 Click here to read the text of H.R. 6652. Background: H.R. 6652 conveys title for the facilities managed and operated by Kennewick Irrigation District (KID). It does not privatize federal water projects or properties within the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (BOR). KID will complete an environmental assessment under the National Environmental Policy Act, as well as all necessary Endangered Species Act, National Historical Preservation Act, and hazardous review processes. KID and BOR have committed to ensuring that all stakeholders, tribal concerns, and local interests have a seat at the table throughout the process. In addition to ensuring the proper reviews are completed, KID will repay their allocated share of construction costs to the federal government.
12.13.2018	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following joint statement on Washington Governor Jay Inslee’s proposed $750,000 in the state budget to support evaluation by a state task force of breaching the Lower Snake River dams: “The people of Eastern Washington whose livelihoods depend on these dams should not be collateral damage for anyone’s presidential ambitions. The Governor does not have the authority to breach our federal dams on the Lower Snake River, and allocating state taxpayers’ funds to consider breaching them would be wasteful. Congress has the sole authority to authorize breaching our federal dams, and as representatives of Eastern Washington communities that depend on the many benefits they provide, breaching them is out of the question. We commit to do everything in our power to save our dams.” ###
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives voted 369-47 to pass the 2018 Farm Bill, Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 2 - Agriculture Improvement Act. The legislation now heads to President Trump for his signature into law. “Farm Country has waited long enough, and today Congress delivered,” said Rep. Newhouse. “As a third-generation Yakima Valley farmer, I know the Farm Bill plays an enormously important role in Central Washington’s agriculture economy by delivering a secure safety net for farmers and providing for research that keeps us on the cutting edge of global innovation. Farmers are struggling with a 50-percent drop in net farm income over the past five years, which is why market access programs and crop insurance are critical to providing certainty for agriculture producers. While some improvements were made, I would have preferred to include stronger provisions to improve nutrition programs and forestry management. Farmers needed action sooner rather than later. I applaud Chairman Conaway for his hard work in getting this bill across the finish line.” 2018 Farm Bill Conference Report Highlights: Study to include hops in crop insurance: The Conference Report includes language making hops eligible for crop insurance and directs the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Board (FCIC) to streamline the process for developing hop insurance policies. The bill requires FCIC to submit a report on hops policies one year after the enactment to the Agricultural Committees that describes the results of the policy developments along with any recommendations. Dairy protection: The Conference Report renames the dairy Margin Protection Program to Dairy Margin Coverage (DMC) and builds on the Bipartisan Budget Act (BBA) investment by offering new coverage levels for the first 5 million pounds of production, drastically reducing premiums on catastrophic coverage levels for larger producers, and eliminating the restriction between the margin program (formerly MPP, now DMC) and Livestock Gross Margin (LGM) insurance. Expedites environmental reviews to protect our forests: The conference report encourages proper management for healthy and productive federal, state, and private forests and incentivizes infrastructure and new market opportunities to revitalize communities and healthy landscapes. The conference report simplifies environmental reviews while still ensuring robust protection of the environment. Click here to read additional highlights of the Conference Report. Click here to read a summary of the Conference Report. Click here to read the Conference Report text. CLICK HERE TO WATCH REP. NEWHOUSE SPEAK IN SUPPORT OF THE 2018 FARM BILL Transcript: Mr. Speaker, earlier this year—as the House considered its version of the Farm Bill—I spoke in this chamber about a Farm Bill listening tour that I had conducted in my own District, traveling to every county that I represent to hear from and listen to input and the concerns from farmers, ranchers, and producers across the State of Washington. In the days since then the House passed that bill early this summer, there has been growing concern that the job would not get done—that the 2014 Farm Bill would expire and that our nation’s Farm Country would be left without the crucial tools this legislation provides to strengthen the farm safety net and provide certainty and flexibility to America’s farmers and ranchers. Fortunately, with the legislation before us today, we can report that this is not the case. After months of painstaking negotiations between the House and Senate conferees, we have an agreement before us. This agreement, while not including several provisions that I would have liked to have seen, sets us on a better path for our farmers and ranchers, for our rural communities, for small businesses, and for consumers across the country at the grocery store and at kitchen tables. With this conference agreement to the Farm Bill, I can go back to my District and confidently report to my constituents that we have provided a strong foundation to help our farmers survive a 50-percent drop in net farm income over the past five years. I can go back to Okanogan County and tell my constituents in Pateros that we have strengthened market access programs and provided strong resources to open new sources for exporting across the globe. I can tell farmers in Grant County that we have protected crop insurance and made several key improvements, including for whole farm revenue coverage for specialty crop producers. I can tell dairy producers in Yakima County that we have improved the dairy safety net for large, mid-sized, and small dairies. I can report back to producers in Prosser in Benton County, who stressed the importance of agricultural research, that we have provided an increase in funding for research, for extension, and for education projects. With the bill before us, I can let key agricultural partners in our community like Washington State University know that we will keep American agriculture at the forefront of innovation and productivity. Farmers from East Wenatchee will hear from me that this Farm Bill invests in critical cost-share and incentive-based programs to help farm families improve our soil, water, and other natural resources. And I can tell farmers in Othello in Adams County, concerned with the regulatory burdens on their shoulders, that this legislation protects our producers from costly additional, unnecessary red tape. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to rise today as a third-generation farmer to say that this Farm Bill takes strong steps to address challenges facing America’s agricultural community. The rule we bring before the House provides for further consideration of the Conference Report to H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act, legislation that is critically important to my District in Central Washington, and to rural districts across this great country. This legislation maintains and strengthens important policies like Price Loss Coverage, Agriculture Risk Coverage, Commodity Loans, Dairy Margin Coverage, Livestock Disaster Programs, and Crop Insurance. It enhances and permanently funds the Foreign Market Development Program and Technical Assistance for Specialty Crops, which are so vital for export-driven agricultural economies like my State of Washington has. It increases funding for land grant universities, research, extension, and education, as well as special research initiatives, including for specialty crops and organic research. This legislation makes strides to expand quality broadband to all of rural America by including forward-looking standards to ensure that we are meeting next-generation rural broadband needs. It also improves the tools available to reduce forest fuel loads that increase the size and force of catastrophic wildfires. By renewing key categorical exclusions and expanding its purpose to allow for expedited reduction of hazardous fuels in our forests, we can continue to reduce the threat that these wildfires pose on rural communities. Mr. Speaker, with support from the 2014 Farm Bill, American farmers have been able to combat depressed prices and severe drops in farm income, but they would not have been able to do so without a robust safety net in place. The Conference Report before us will build upon this effort and ensure a steady food supply will be on the shelves and in our markets for years to come. As I mentioned, it doesn’t include everything I would have liked to have seen in this bill—but in reality no piece of legislation is perfect, particularly comprehensive bills that have been negotiated for months. But the fact of the matter is, this Farm Bill includes important and significant wins for American farmers and ranchers, and it is now our responsibility to get the job done. Mr. Speaker, the People’s House has more than 20 farmers, ranchers, and producers serving in this body. Among us are a dairyman from Central California, a blueberry farmer from Maine, a rancher from South Dakota, two rice farmers—one from California and another from Minnesota—a cattleman from Kentucky, an almond farmer from California, and yes—a proud hops farmer from the Yakima Valley of Washington state. This is the first Farm Bill that I have had the opportunity to engage in since being in Congress, Mr. Speaker. I’ve spent my whole life on the farm—and my life in public service, including serving as Washington State’s Director of the Department of Agriculture, has been spent working on behalf of American farmers, ranchers, rural communities, and families. It is an honor today to bring this rule forward for the Conference Report to Accompany the Farm Bill—H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act. I humbly urge my colleagues to support the rule, support the bill, and strengthen the future for America’s farmers and all those who depend upon them.
12.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed S. 3119, the Endangered Salmon Predation Prevention Act, bipartisan legislation aimed at improving the survival of endangered salmon, steelhead and other native fish species in the Columbia River system. The legislation amends the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 to give state and tribal managers more flexibility in addressing predatory sea lions in the Columbia River system that are threatening both Endangered Species Act-listed salmon and steelhead. S. 3119 is similar to legislation cosponsored by Rep. Newhouse which passed in the House earlier this year. “Billions of taxpayer dollars have been spent on salmon recovery in the Pacific Northwest only to see invasive sea lions take a bite out of the population,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Non-native sea lions have had a severe impact on spring Chinook salmon mortality on the Columbia River. I applaud colleagues in the House and Senate with whom I have worked on legislation in our bipartisan effort to improve management of pinnipeds threatening salmon.” WATCH NEWHOUSE SPEAK IN SUPPORT OF H.R. 2083 EARLIER THIS YEAR
12.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and the Schmieman family released the following statements after President Trump signed legislation into law to designate the U.S. Postal Service facility at 4801 West Van Giesen Street in West Richland, Washington as the “Sergeant Dietrich Schmieman Post Office.” Rep. Newhouse introduced H.R. 5504 with the support of the entire Washington delegation to honor the life and service of U.S. Marine Sergeant Dietrich Schmieman of Richland, who was serving in the 2nd Raider Battalion at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina when he was tragically killed in a cargo plane crash in Mississippi on July 10, 2017. A designation ceremony for the Post Office with the Schmieman family and Rep. Newhouse will be announced at a later date. Rep. Newhouse: “It is an honor to recognize Sergeant Schmieman for his honorable sacrifice. He served to protect our freedom, and I know this Post Office will mean a lot to his community as a reminder of his dedication to our country.” Sergeant Schmieman’s parents, Susan and Eric, on behalf of the Schmieman family: “We are grateful to Washington Representatives, Senators, and their staffs for renaming the West Richland Post Office in honor of our son, USMC Raider Dietrich Schmieman. It is our hope that the renamed facility will remind users not only of Dietrich, but of all those who have served under arms and given their all for our nation.” Watch Rep. Newhouse speak in support of his legislation to honor Sgt. Dietrich Schmieman Transcript: I rise today to speak in support of legislation that will commemorate the life and service of a young man from Central Washington who died serving his country, just over a year ago on July 10, 2017. Marine Sergeant Dietrich Schmieman grew up in Richland, Washington with his parents, Eric and Susan, and his two brothers, Aaron and Hans. He attended Christ the King Catholic School, Hanford High School, and Columbia Basin College, where he met friends who would remain close to him throughout his entire life. In 2010, with a world of opportunity ahead of him, he chose to dedicate his life to service and enlist in the United States Marine Corps. It was his goal to serve within Special Operations Command. Throughout his service, he received 14 awards and decorations, including several Achievement Medals, Good Conduct Medals, and the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal. He had completed two overseas deployments serving our nation during Operation Enduring Freedom. He achieved his goal, honorable serving as a Critical Skills Operator in the U.S. Marine Corps 2nd Raider Battalion at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, when he was tragically killed in a KC-130 plane crash in Mississippi on July 10, 2017. My legislation would designate the U.S. Postal Service facility at 4801 West Van Giesen Street in West Richland, Washington as the “Sergeant Dietrich Schmieman Post Office Building.” Dietrich and his fellow service members gave the ultimate sacrifice, and I hope to honor his memory – as well as the memory of the 15 other men and women killed in the crash – with this dedication to their service. Dietrich’s strong ties to his family, friends, and hometown continue to be evident. An avid skydiver, Dietrich’s death inspired his parents, childhood friends, and fellow Marines to complete a memorial skydive over Central Washington. He had a tattoo symbolizing his love of the Pacific Northwest and requested that his ashes be spread on Mt. Rainier, where his Marine brothers-in-arms will hike this August in his honor. We recently observed the one-year anniversary of the devastating plane crash, and I know that the designation of this Post Office will mean a lot to Dietrich’s family and to our community – serving as a local memorial and reminder of the sacrifice he and his fellow service members gave to preserve the freedoms that are the cornerstone of our nation. I encourage my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation to name this building, which will be visited often by friends and family, after a courageous young man whose life and service deserve this honor.
12.03.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) announced the winners of the Fourth Congressional District’s 2018 App Challenge, an app competition for K-12 students. Two Kennewick High School 11th graders, Nikhil Devanathan and Aiden Arends, both 16 years-old, have been named the competition winners. Their winning app, named “Wallet Wise,” teaches players how to manage a balanced personal budget to encourage prudent fiscal decision making. You can see a preview of the winning app by clicking here. “Congratulations to Nikhil Devanathan and Aiden Arends, whose winning app creates realistic scenarios to encourage users to maintain a budget over a 12-month period,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I am impressed by the technical know-how, creativity, and persistence demonstrated by everyone who submitted apps to this year’s competition. Our high school students are the innovators of tomorrow, and Central Washington can be proud to cultivate the success of these hard-working young people.” The winning app was selected by a panel of local judges and will receive a prize tour of Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. The winners will also share $250 in Amazon Web Services credits donated by Amazon for the challenge. The winning app will be featured on a video display in the U.S. Capitol building, as well as House.gov and the Congressional App Challenge website. The second place app, “Invasion Defenders,” was designed by Maxwell Fischer (Southridge High School/Tri-Tech Skills Center, Kennewick), Roger Hays (Southridge High School/Tri-Tech Skills center, Kennewick), and Elijah Saba (Homeschool/Columbia Basin College, Pasco). The app is a strategy game that requires players to use a tactical approach in a battle scenario when the defending side is at a disadvantage. The third place app, “Civilization Defense Unlimited” was designed by Jeremiah Templeton (Kamiakin High School/Tri-Tech Skills Center, Kennewick)), Nathan Weis (Mid-Columbia Partnership/Tri-Tech Skills Center, Kennewick), and Aaron Wiens (Mid-Columbia Partnership/Tri-Tech Skills Center, Kennewick). The app is a game targeted to mobile users in which players defend their town using walls and towers while developing their civilization. Background: The Congressional App Challenge (CAC) was created because Congress recognized that Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education skills are essential for economic growth and innovation, and that the U.S. has been falling behind on these fronts. According to the U.S. Department of Commerce, STEM occupations are projected to grow by 17% between 2008 and 2018, compared to 9.8% growth for non-STEM occupations. According to some estimates, the U.S. may be short as many as 3 million high-skilled workers by 2018. To maintain American competitiveness, it is crucial that the U.S. industry invest in our youth now and help them acquire necessary STEM-based skills. The CAC highlights and encourages students to pursue those skills. Last year’s Fourth District App Challenge winners, Three Kennewick high school students of Tri-Tech Skills Center named Seth Florman, Damon Fuller, and Kyler Zimmerman, won the Challenge for the app they designed called “Powerhouse.” You can see a preview of the 2017 app by clicking here.
12.01.2018	WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the passing of President George H. W. Bush: “President George Herbert Walker Bush served this nation in a multitude of roles and always faithfully. From his military service during World War II, his service in Congress, his ambassadorship, his time leading the Central Intelligence Agency as Director, his service as Vice President, and finally his Presidency, he dutifully faced many of the 20th Century challenges of our country. He leaves a legacy of public service. As Americans, we are grateful for the leadership his life demonstrated and that he is now reunited with his beloved Barbara.”
11.30.2018	WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after exchanging vows of marriage with Ms. Joan Galvin. Rep. Newhouse and Ms. Galvin were married today after the conclusion of House votes. The couple was accompanied by a small group of family and friends as witnesses. The ceremony was held in the Congressional Prayer Room in the U.S. Capitol and officiated by the Chaplain of the U.S. House of Representatives, Reverend Patrick J. Conroy, S.J. “I am overjoyed and truly blessed to be starting this new chapter of my life with Joan,” said Rep. Newhouse. “We are so grateful for the support and love of our friends, family, and everyone celebrating with us in spirit.” Click here for photos. In October, Rep. Newhouse and Joan Galvin publicly announced their engagement. Click here to read the story in the Tri-City Herald and here to read the story in the Yakima Herald Republic.
11.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) released the following statements after the U.S. Senate approved H.R. 5504, to designate the U.S. Postal Service facility at 4801 West Van Giesen Street in West Richland, Washington as the “Sergeant Dietrich Schmieman Post Office.” Rep. Newhouse introduced H.R. 5504 with the support of the entire Washington delegation to honor the life and service of U.S. Marine Sergeant Dietrich Schmieman of Richland, who was serving in the 2nd Raider Battalion at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina when he was tragically killed in a cargo plane crash in Mississippi on July 10, 2017. The legislation now heads to the President’s desk for his signature. “After speaking with the Schmieman family, it became clear that Dietrich was truly devoted to his service and his Marine Corps brothers-in-arms,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I am proud to be able to honor him through the designation of the Sergeant Dietrich Schmieman Post Office Building in West Richland, and I am grateful his memory will live on in Central Washington. Sergeant Schmieman’s sacrifice will not be forgotten, and this post office will serve as a local reminder for his family, friends, and community of the honorable sacrifice he gave for his country.” Senator Cantwell: “The Sergeant Dietrich Schmieman Post Office will serve as a reminder of his legacy of service and sacrifice. From Hanford High to the elite forces of the Marine Corps, Sergeant Schmieman was a shining example of leadership, dedication, and the best our country has to offer.” Senator Murray: “Sergeant Schmieman was a decorated Marine who made the ultimate sacrifice in service to our nation. I’m proud to join my colleagues in remembering this brave Washingtonian by naming the West Van Giesen Post Office in his honor.” Watch Rep. Newhouse speak in support of his legislation to honor Sgt. Dietrich Schmieman Transcript: I rise today to speak in support of legislation that will commemorate the life and service of a young man from Central Washington who died serving his country, just over a year ago on July 10, 2017. Marine Sergeant Dietrich Schmieman grew up in Richland, Washington with his parents, Eric and Susan, and his two brothers, Aaron and Hans. He attended Christ the King Catholic School, Hanford High School, and Columbia Basin College, where he met friends who would remain close to him throughout his entire life. In 2010, with a world of opportunity ahead of him, he chose to dedicate his life to service and enlist in the United States Marine Corps. It was his goal to serve within Special Operations Command. Throughout his service, he received 14 awards and decorations, including several Achievement Medals, Good Conduct Medals, and the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal. He had completed two overseas deployments serving our nation during Operation Enduring Freedom. He achieved his goal, honorable serving as a Critical Skills Operator in the U.S. Marine Corps 2nd Raider Battalion at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, when he was tragically killed in a KC-130 plane crash in Mississippi on July 10, 2017. My legislation would designate the U.S. Postal Service facility at 4801 West Van Giesen Street in West Richland, Washington as the “Sergeant Dietrich Schmieman Post Office Building.” Dietrich and his fellow service members gave the ultimate sacrifice, and I hope to honor his memory – as well as the memory of the 15 other men and women killed in the crash – with this dedication to their service. Dietrich’s strong ties to his family, friends, and hometown continue to be evident. An avid skydiver, Dietrich’s death inspired his parents, childhood friends, and fellow Marines to complete a memorial skydive over Central Washington. He had a tattoo symbolizing his love of the Pacific Northwest and requested that his ashes be spread on Mt. Rainier, where his Marine brothers-in-arms will hike this August in his honor. We recently observed the one-year anniversary of the devastating plane crash, and I know that the designation of this Post Office will mean a lot to Dietrich’s family and to our community – serving as a local memorial and reminder of the sacrifice he and his fellow service members gave to preserve the freedoms that are the cornerstone of our nation. I encourage my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation to name this building, which will be visited often by friends and family, after a courageous young man whose life and service deserve this honor.
11.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, on a vote of 196-180, the House of Representatives approved bipartisan legislation introduced by Congressman Sean Duffy (R-WI) and Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) to return management of gray wolves to state control. Congressman Newhouse issued the following statement: “The recovery of the gray wolf is a success story for the Endangered Species Act, and the best available science must determine whether species remain listed,” said Congressman Newhouse. “States are best-equipped to effectively manage gray wolves and respond to the needs of the ecosystem and local communities. I am pleased that this bipartisan legislation to return management of the gray wolf species to the states, as requested by the Washington Department of Fish & Wildlife and as proposed by the Obama administration, has been approved by the House. I urge prompt consideration in the Senate.” “If you live in Wisconsin, especially northern Wisconsin, it might be necessary for us to actually manage this population because it's good for the environment,” said Congressman Duffy. “It's good for the wolves. It's good for the cattle. It's actually really good for our deer population. And so I just think this just makes common sense. Frankly, I believe that our states are far more in tuned in understanding the ecosystem of their state than Bureaucrats in Washington.” For Congressman Duffy’s complete floor remarks today, click here. Click here to watch remarks delivered on the House floor by Congressman Newhouse Transcript of Congressman Newhouse’s remarks: Mr. Speaker, on Tuesday the Rules Committee met and reported a rule, House Resolution 1142, providing for further consideration of H.R. 6784, the Manage our Wolves Act. The rule provides for consideration of the legislation under a closed rule. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to have co-introduced the underlying legislation considered in this rule today, H.R. 6784, the Manage Our Wolves Act, to return management of the gray wolf species to the states. The states are best-equipped to provide more effective and accountable management that responds to the needs of the ecosystem, other species, as well as local communities. On June 13, 2013, under the Obama Administration, the Department of the Interior and the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service published in the Federal Register a proposed rule that would have removed the gray wolf from the “List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife.” This determination was made after Fish & Wildlife evaluated the classification status of gray wolves currently listed in the contiguous United States under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 and found, and I quote, the “best available scientific and commercial information indicates that the currently listed entity is not a valid species under the Act.” Mr. Speaker, the purpose of Endangered Species Act is to recover species to the point where they are no longer considered "endangered" or "threatened." The gray wolf is currently found in nearly fifty countries around the world and has been placed in the classification of "least concern” for risk of extinction by the Species Survival Commission of the International Union for Conservation Nature. Some of my colleagues have asked, ‘well, if Fish & Wildlife have proposed to delist the species, why haven’t they done so?’ That is a completely fair and reasonable question. Unfortunately, it is due to fringe environmentalist efforts that any action from moving forward under the law has been stalled. So long as the courts are abused to prevent the proper adjudication of the law, we will not see progress made. And it is because of this exploitation of the law that communities like those in Central Washington suffer the consequences. Mr. Speaker, in my home state, the great State of Washington, the gray wolf is not listed in just the eastern third of the state, forcing U.S. Fish & Wildlife and the Washington Department of Fish & Wildlife to rely on an arbitrary political boundary when delineating and managing a species. I am sorry to share with you Mr. Speaker that—as it turns out— surprisingly wolves don’t know boundaries or borders. The arbitrary nature of this current status of the law is broken, and it is impairing the ability of fish and wildlife managers on the ground to properly manage the species as well as its ecosystem, including the harm it poses on other indigenous species. Mr. Speaker, this is why Congress as a co-equal branch, must act. This legislation directs the U.S. Department of the Interior to follow through with the proposed rule and delist the gray wolf from the list of endangered species. We have a responsibility to protect the incredibly diverse species both in Washington State and across the country. These efforts to protect our wildlife species must be based on sound science and an open, transparent process. Unfortunately, that is far from the case when it comes to the process dictating endangered species policies, particularly in this case of the gray wolf. For years now, Washington’s Department of Fish & Wildlife has asked the federal government to delist the gray wolf and provide relief from the burdensome, broken process dictating species management. I have received letters from the Director of the Washington State Department of Fish & Wildlife, one in 2015 and one earlier this year, and would ask unanimous consent for them to be entered into the record. In them, the letters read, and I quote: “Dear Congressman Newhouse, The Washington Department of Fish & Wildlife appreciates your continued assistance to encourage the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to complete the delisting of the gray wolf and remove it from federal protection under the Endangered Species List.” … It continues, “In 2008, the first wolf pack was documented in Washington State. Today we have 22 known packs. During this time, the state’s wolf population has increased by an average of more than 30 percent per year.” … “As demonstrated with the current rate of recovery, the Department is well suited to facilitate the recovery and management of wolves across the state.” … “Under the current federal designation and management, we cannot fully implement our plan in the western two-thirds of the state. To ensure ongoing success in wolf recovery, the federal listing needs to keep pace with the on-the-ground recovery status and allow the state to fully implement its management plan. Therefore, I support your efforts to advance the delisting of wolves and return management to the state,” end quote. Mr. Speaker, to close, I would like to just say that as a farmer and life-long resident of Central Washington state, I consider myself a conservationist and steward of our rich natural heritage—and that includes our incredible wildlife. State governments are fully qualified to responsibly manage gray wolf populations and are better able to meet the needs of local communities, ranchers, livestock, wildlife populations, and ecosystems. I encourage my colleagues to support the rule and the underlying legislation. Background: Management of these gray wolves was transferred from the state to the federal level following two 2014 U.S. District Court decisions that reinstated gray wolves under the protections of the Endangered Species Act. These designations leave farmers and ranchers in those states without a legal avenue to protect their livestock from wolves. Click HERE to read H.R. 6784, the Manage Our Wolves Act. Click HERE and HERE to read the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife’s 2015 and 2018 letters requesting the federal delisting of the gray wolf.
11.15.2018	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House Committee on Natural Resources approved federal legislation introduced by Rep. Newhouse to transfer title of U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) related works and lands to the Kennewick Irrigation District (KID). In accordance with the December 2017 Memorandum of Agreement between KID and BOR, this legislation will transfer title of works beginning at KID’s head gate and extending 40 miles east to the Columbia River. The transfer includes the conveyance of land and project facilities and should be completed no later than two years after the enactment. “Transferring the title to local entity will allow more responsive water management, streamlining water uses on behalf of the local community,” said Rep. Newhouse. “My legislation reduces government waste and excess regulations, and I am grateful to Chairman Bishop and my colleagues on the House Natural Resources Committee for approving this important bill for Central Washington water users.” Click here to read the text of H.R. 6652. Background: H.R. 6652 conveys title for the facilities managed and operated by Kennewick Irrigation District (KID). It does not privatize federal water projects or properties within the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (BOR). KID will complete an environmental assessment under the National Environmental Policy Act, as well as all necessary Endangered Species Act, National Historical Preservation Act, and hazardous review processes. KID and BOR have committed to ensuring that all stakeholders, tribal concerns, and local interests have a seat at the table throughout the process. In addition to ensuring the proper reviews are completed, KID will repay their allocated share of construction costs to the federal government.
11.14.2018	WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) issued the following statements after the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) recently released its FY19 Distribution of Additional Funding that includes $7.1 million to the Columbia Basin Project Ephrata office, allocating up to $2 million for design and oversight to the Odessa Ground Water Replacement Program (OGWRP). “Every dollar of additional support for the Columbia Basin Project makes a difference for the future of water users facing depletion of the Odessa Aquifer,” said Newhouse. “The Bureau’s announcement of up to $2 million for the project is very helpful, and I will continue to make the case for the federal government to support this critical investment on behalf of farmers, ranchers, and water users who are counting on a replacement water source.” “The Odessa Ground Water Replacement Project is critical to ensuring our region has access to the water needed to grow our crops and fuel our economy,” said McMorris Rodgers. “This announcement of $7 million in funding for the Columbia Basin Project, including $2 million for the Odessa aquifer, will help continue to meet our water infrastructure needs. Thank you to the Bureau of Reclamation for their continued commitment to Eastern Washington farmers and our communities at large.” In May, BOR announced nearly $2 million in new funds for the Columbia Basin Project Ephrata/Pasco Pump Lateral and Potholes Supplemental Feed Route, including $750,000 for oversight and design for a pumping plant and pipeline delivery system for the Odessa Ground Water Replacement Program.
11.10.2018	SURESNES, FRANCE—With the world reflecting on the centennial of the Armistice of World War I, U.S. Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) laid wreaths Saturday at Suresnes American Cemetery and Memorial just outside of Paris, France to honor three Washington natives who lost their lives or went missing in “The Great War.” “Inscribed on the chapel overlooking the Suresnes cemetery are the words, ‘Peaceful is their sleep in glory,’ and it was a moving experience to recognize the ultimate sacrifice of fellow Americans who never came home,” said Rep. Newhouse. “These young men’s sacrifice is more than most of us can imagine. The ground in which they rest is hallowed, and it was an honor to pay respects on behalf of the people of the Fourth Congressional District.” Rep. Newhouse laid wreaths at the gravesite of Private Harold H. Anderson of Bellingham and at the Tablets of the Missing in honor of Private Robert W. Ely of Kennewick and John Tomlinson of Toppenish. In addition to laying the wreaths, Rep. Newhouse also participated in a memorial ceremony at Suresnes American Cemetery to honor all Americans who lost their lives in World War I. Rep. Newhouse attended the ceremony with a group of bipartisan members of the U.S. House of Representatives. Newhouse laid the wreath at the gravesite of Private Harold H. Anderson, who served in the 335 Infantry Regiment, 84th Division of the U.S. Army. A Veteran of World War I and originally from Bellingham, Washington, he passed away on October 10, 1918. Anderson deployed along with his unit to France in October 1918, moving directly into “behind the lines” training camps to learn modern battlefield tactics from veteran French Soldiers. However, shortly after arrival, his division was designated as a training unit with the mission of training newly arriving American units for forward deployment. Private Anderson died of an unknown disease, most likely influenza or tuberculosis. Private Roberty W. Ely served in the 125th Field Artillery Regiment, 34th Division of the U.S. Army. He was born June 11, 1891 and was from Kennewick, Washington. He trained at Camp Cody in New Mexico in June of 1918. On September 24, 1918, Robert W. Ely left for France on a ship known as USS Saxon. Private Ely went missing or died on Oct 5th, 1918, with his status missing in action or lost at sea. He is memorialized at the Tablets of the Missing at Suresnes American Cemetery. According to the Monuments Project, John Tomlinson served in the 316th Engineer’s Division of the U.S. Army. Born in Toppenish in 1894, he is the son of Myrtle Baxter (née Gilbert) and Winchester H. Tomlinson. Tomlinson attended Camp Lewis, in Washington, before he set out for New Jersey. There, he went to Camp Merritt. When he went to these camps is unknown. In New York, on March 16, 1918, John Tomlinson boarded the 509 steamship and set sail for Europe, for the war. He was in the 316th engineers, nicknamed the “Wild West” division. He sailed only for 10 days before he fell sick, and eventually died of pneumonia. They gave him a short memorial, in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean, before burying him at sea as to not infect other soldiers. To this day, like many other soldiers, John Tomlinson’s body was never found, having been lost at sea. He is memorialized at the Tablets of the Missing at Suresnes American Cemetery. Located just outside of Paris, Suresnes American Cemetery is the final resting place of over 1,500 American Service Members and volunteers who lost their lives in World War I along with 24 unknown dead from World War II. Bronze tablets on the walls of the chapel record the names of 974 soldiers missing in action. Originally serving as a temporary cemetery for the American Hospital of Paris in 1917 toward the end of World War I, General Pershing selected it as the first site of nine permanent American Cemeteries. Saturday’s ceremony and wreath laying at Suresnes coincides with other events held in France and throughout Europe to mark the centennial of the end of World War I.
11.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) proposed rulemaking which could help farmers advertise job openings to domestic workers as required under the H-2A visa program. The DOL rulemaking would require that employers seeking to hire temporary workers post the employment opportunities online, which is in line with today’s modern recruitment practices for employers and job seekers as well as reducing employers’ recruitment costs. “The Trump Administration has remained committed to modernizing the H-2A program to make it more workable for farmers,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This change was long overdue, and I applaud this positive step to streamline regulations and modernize the H-2A program to ease burdens on small farm operations struggling with scarce labor.” The proposed rulemaking is an early step in H-2A regulatory reforms as promised in May in a joint statement of the Secretaries of Agriculture, Labor, State, and Homeland Security.
11.01.2018	RICHLAND, WA – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) recognized Pasco residents James and Angie Sessions with the 2018 Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute’s “Angels in Adoption” award. November is National Adoption Month, and Rep. Newhouse honored the Sessions family for their outstanding advocacy of adoption and foster care issues. “James and Angie opened their hearts to foster care and adoption, and for their four children, they truly are Angels in Adoption,” said Rep. Newhouse. “They are absolutely deserving of this recognition, and I am proud to honor them for their dedication to children in our community. I hope their story will be an inspiration to other families in Central Washington considering becoming foster or adoptive parents.” James and Angie were inspired to become foster parents after learning about the foster care system at a local church camp for children in state custody. They became foster parents for four siblings – three young brothers and their baby sister – and were determined to keep the family together. In August of 2017, the Sessions family grew from 2 to 6 when Ajay, Nathan, Kyler, and Layla found their forever home with James and Angie in Pasco. The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI) is a non-profit organization that works to raise awareness about the needs of children without families and to remove policy barriers that hinder children from knowing the love and support a family provides. CCAI’s Angels in Adoption initiative provides an opportunity for Members of Congress to honor an individual or entity from their district which has made an extraordinary contribution on behalf of children in need of homes. CCAI is a 501(c)3 nonpartisan organization dedicated to raising awareness about the tens of thousands of orphans and foster children in the United States and the millions of orphans around the world in need of permanent, safe and loving homes through adoption.
10.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Dan Newhouse (WA-04) applauded a Presidential Memorandum that moves up the schedule for the new court-mandated Federal Columbia River Power System (FCRPS) Biological Opinion from 2021 to 2020 while mandating increased collaboration among federal agencies. “I’ve led on legislation to protect the Columbia and Snake River System and encourage widespread collaboration in our region,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Dams and fish coexist, and after more than two decades in the courtroom, we should let scientists, not judges, manage our river systems and get to work to further improve fish recovery efforts. Today, I’m encouraged by President Trump’s action, which also meets those goals.” “While the Senate fails to act on our House-passed legislation to restore the collaborative framework that operates the Columbia and Snake River Power System, I am grateful to President Trump for speeding up this ongoing process,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Moving up the deadline for the EIS is a procedural win that will give more certainty to the communities whose livelihoods depend on effective operations of our dams.” The Federal Columbia River Power System (FCRPS) 2014 BiOp was the product of unprecedented collaboration between President Barack Obama’s administration, states, and sovereign Northwest tribes. The BiOp has helped to produce record fish returns through use of modern, innovative technology, and has widespread support in the region. Unfortunately, a U.S. District judge overturned the BiOp in 2016, throwing out sound science and dictating new river operations from behind the bench—including maximum “spill” levels over the dams. The judge’s anti-science court order has thrown the river system’s operations into disarray and forced uncertainty upon the Bonneville Power Administration’s (BPA) ability to manage the power transmission system. This Congress, the House of Representatives passed two pieces of legislation that would have protected the Snake River Dams and safeguarded low power rates for the people of Central and Eastern Washington. The first bill, H.R. 3144, was introduced by Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) alongside Reps. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Greg Walden (R-OR), and Kurt Schrader (D-OR. It codifies the 2014 BiOp while the EIS can be completed. The House also passed a rider in the Energy and Water Appropriations bill that stops the court mandated spill that has cost ratepayers $38.6 million. Both were stalled by Democrats in the Senate.
10.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after being presented the “Hero of Main Street” award by Yakima local business owners Pat and Linda Gilmore on Friday. Rep. Newhouse received the National Retail Federation’s Hero of Main Street award for his support of legislation critical to the retail industry. The Hero of Main Street award was created by NRF in 2013, and eligibility is based on key votes, bill sponsorship and advocacy to advance retailers’ priorities. Recipients have supported policies that recognize the contributions of the retail industry, and have worked to encourage a vibrant, sustained and healthy retail sector. “Main Street businesses are the pillars of our communities because they provide employment and opportunity to our neighbors,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I’m honored to be named a ‘Hero of Main Street,” and I will continue to support policies that encourage small businesses to hire more workers.” The Hero of Main Street award was created by NRF in 2013 to recognize members of Congress for support of the retail industry’s public policy priorities. Eligibility is based on NRF’s Retail Opportunity Index, bill sponsorship and advocacy to advance the industry’s priorities. The “heroes” have supported policies and initiatives defined by NRF that recognize the contributions of the retail industry, and have worked to encourage a “vibrant, sustained and healthy” retail sector.
10.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Newhouse (R-WA-04) and Rep. Derek Kilmer (D-WA-06) issued a joint statement announcing a bipartisan Civility and Respect Tour next week with events in central and western Washington. Reps. Newhouse and Kilmer together joined the Congressional Civility and Respect Caucus, which encourages all Members of Congress to act with civility and respect in their political discourse. As part of the tour, the representatives will attend dialogues at WSU Tri-Cities and University of Washington Tacoma campuses, tour businesses, and meet with community groups to hear about their work and learn how Washingtonians promote civility and respect in their own lives. Rep. Newhouse and Rep. Kilmer: “We believe it’s possible to disagree on the issues without being disagreeable. With so much national attention on partisanship, we want to start a respectful conversation with Washingtonians about the things we have in common and the areas where we need to work harder to seek out common ground.” At the dialogues, the representatives will have a conversation with the audience about how to better incorporate civility into daily life, and then ask the audience to join them in a pledge to promote civility within their community.
10.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Newhouse (R-WA) applauded the Department of the Interior’s Bureau of Land Management (BLM) for announcing a public meeting on the Methow Valley Headwaters’ mineral withdrawal application. The notice issued in the Federal Register reopens the public comment period on the withdrawal proposal until November 13, 2018. BLM also announced that a public meeting to discuss the Methow Valley Headwaters’ mineral withdrawal will be held at 6 p.m. on November 13, 2018 at the Red Barn in Winthrop, located at 51 North Highway 20. The public meeting is the last step BLM must complete before a final recommendation on the withdrawal is made by Joe Balash, the Assistant Secretary for Land and Minerals Management to U.S. Secretary of Interior Ryan Zinke. “I thank the Bureau of Land Management for responding to my request to initiate this major step for the Methow Valley Headwaters mineral withdrawal application,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Just earlier this week, I had the opportunity to meet with the folks in the Methow Valley and witness – once again – the natural wonder of region. I encourage local community members to attend this public meeting to have their voices heard.” “We are very pleased about the announcement of the public meeting and the continued progress of the Methow Headwaters withdrawal. Support for the withdrawal is overwhelming, as it will help ensure the continued prosperity of our local economy, jobs, and region’s rural character,” said Twisp Mayor Soo Ing-Moody. “We are deeply appreciative to Congressman Newhouse and to all of our champions for their support, and to the Bureau of Land Management for its efforts to quickly get this important meeting scheduled.” If you are unable to attend the public meeting, comments can be submitted for the record by mail or by e-mail. Find more information about the comment period here. BACKGROUND: In February, Rep. Newhouse sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue and U.S. Secretary of Interior Ryan Zinke to express support for a mineral withdrawal in the Methow Headwaters and to request that federal agencies move swiftly to complete the environmental review process. On September 21, 2018, the U.S. Forest Service recommended to the Bureau of Land Management to withdraw 340,000 acres in the Methow Valley from consideration for mining for a 20-year period. This recommendation comes after the completion of an Environmental Assessment.
10.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the U.S. Senate voted to confirm Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court: “I congratulate Judge Kavanaugh on his bipartisan confirmation by the U.S. Senate as the next Associate Justice of the Supreme Court,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I have no doubt that Justice Kavanaugh will faithfully and impartially consider decisions that come before our highest court for many years to come, and he will respect the limited role of government as defined in the Constitution.”
10.01.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the United States, Mexico, and Canada announced that an agreement has been reached on the new U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA). Rep. Newhouse will attend the announcement today when President Trump delivers remarks at the White House Rose Garden at 11:00 a.m. ET. WATCH LIVE HERE. “The U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement is outstanding news for America’s farmers, ranchers and manufacturers,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Under this deal, Central Washington wheat farmers gain fair treatment, and dairy producers gain greater access to the Canadian market. American workers needed a level playing field, and President Trump kept his promise to renegotiate NAFTA with that goal. I applaud the work of President Trump and U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer in successfully pushing to modernize the trilateral agreement with our closest trading partners.” AGREEMENT HIGHLIGHTS: AGRICULTURE Benefiting American Farmers, Ranchers, and Agribusiness: While agriculture has generally performed well under NAFTA, important improvements in the agreement will enable food and agriculture to trade more fairly. Key achievements include fair treatment for America’s dairy and wheat farmers. Canada will eliminate its “Class 7” program that allows low-priced dairy ingredients to undersell United States dairy products in Canada and in third country markets. Canada also will provide equal treatment when assessing the quality of imported wheat. Expanded Market Access for American Food and Agricultural Products: Canada will provide important new access for the full range of United States dairy products, eggs and poultry. Strengthening Agricultural Trade with Modernized Provisions: The new agreement sets unprecedented standards for agricultural biotechnology, establishes strong commitments to reduce trade-distorting policies, and enhances rules for science-based sanitary and phytosanitary measures. The United State, Mexico and Canada agreed to non-discrimination and transparency commitments regarding sale and distribution, and labeling and certification provisions to avoid technical barriers to trade in wine and distilled spirits. AMERICAN AUTO MANUFACTURING AND JOBS Increasing United States and Regional Content in Automobiles and Auto Parts: Through updated automotive rules of origin, the new agreement encourages United States manufacturing and regional economic growth by requiring that 75 percent of auto content be produced in North America and that key core parts always be originating. This will incentivize billions of dollars in additional United States vehicle and auto parts production. Incentivizing the Use of High-Wage Manufacturing Labor in the Automotive Sector: The new agreement uses trade rules to encourage higher manufacturing wages by requiring that 40 to 45 percent of automotive content be made by workers earning an average base wage of at least $16 per hour. This will support better jobs for United States producers and workers and incentivize additional United States vehicle and auto parts production.
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House of Representatives approved bipartisan legislation, the House Amendment to the Senate Amendment to H.R. 6 –Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment (SUPPORT) for Patients and Communities Act. H.R. 6 was previously approved by the Senate and will help combat the opioid crisis by advancing treatment and recovery initiatives, improving prevention, protecting our communities, and bolstering efforts to fight deadly illicit synthetic drugs like fentanyl. Rep. Newhouse: “When I hosted a public opioid summit in Central Washington, one woman bravely shared the story of the impact of opioids on her family. Her son, Eli, was exposed to opioids in high school, and he struggled with recovery. Eli passed away in 2014 at the early age of 22 years. Sadly, I hear stories like this one all too often. The toll of the opioid epidemic on Washington families has been tragic, and Congress is taking action today to address this crisis. Families facing this tragedy need more support, and the SUPPORT Act will expand access to treatment and recovery services as well as provide critical resources to Washington state to combat this crisis. Today we made progress. This is for Eli.” According to the Washington State Department of Health, the opioid epidemic has caused more than 7,500 deaths in Washington between 2006 and 2016. How the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act will help combat the opioid crisis: Treatment and Recovery Improve and expand access to treatment and recovery services Provide incentives for enhanced care, coordination, and innovation Establish comprehensive opioid recovery centers Prevention Encourage non-addictive opioid alternatives to treat pain Improve data to identify and help at-risk patients and families Address high prescribing rates while enhancing prescription drug monitoring programs Protecting Communities Give law enforcement tools to get dangerous drugs out of our communities Better intercept illicit opioids at international mail facilities Improve access to federal resources for local communities Fighting Fentanyl Better tackle ever-changing synthetic drugs Crack down on foreign shipments of illicit drugs Provide grants for local communities to combat fentanyl For more information on H.R. 6, click here.
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Newhouse released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 302, FAA Reauthorization Act, which included the Disaster Recovery Reform Act, to reform federal disaster programs to better account for severe impacts of natural disasters on rural communities. “Expanding access to the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Individual Assistance Program is critical for rural communities affected by wildfires and other natural disasters,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Current disaster aid rules deny much-needed help after rural areas are devastated, leaving residents to fend for themselves. This legislation directs FEMA to give greater consideration to severe local impacts of natural disasters and adjust FEMA policies accordingly.” Background: Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Individual Assistance Program provides housing and unemployment assistance, counseling, and other personal support to families and individuals in the wake of a disaster. However, the current formula FEMA uses to evaluate damages and send disaster declaration recommendations to the President frequently leaves smaller towns and communities out. The assistance cannot be utilized without a federal disaster declaration. Rep. Newhouse previously worked on legislation to direct the Administrator of FEMA, in making recommendations to the President regarding a major disaster declaration, to give greater weight and consideration to severe local impact of disasters. This same language was included in H.R. 302 passed today. The Disaster Recovery Reform Act provisions in H.R. 302 direct the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Administrator to give greater consideration to severe local impact or recent multiple disasters: In making recommendations to the President regarding a major disaster declaration, the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall give greater consideration to severe local impact or recent multiple disasters. Further, the Administrator shall make corresponding adjustments to the Agency’s policies and regulations regarding such consideration. Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this section, the Administrator shall report to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate on the changes made to regulations and policies and the number of declarations that have been declared based on the new criteria. [Bill page 709]
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Port of Moses Lake Commission President Kent Jones released the following statements today after the House approved H.R. 302, FAA Reauthorization Act, a bipartisan, five-year bill to reauthorize the programs of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Included in the FAA Reauthorization Act is Rep. Newhouse’s military exemption language that prohibits FAA from realigning or consolidating any facilities where military operations comprised 40 percent or more of the total annual Terminal Radar Approach Control systems’ activity in 2015. “The current 804 realignment or consolidation process for FAA facilities would have a serious impact on Grant County International Airport and Moses Lake, and this bipartisan FAA reauthorization legislation rightly amends that process,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I am pleased that my military operations exemption will help preserve military readiness as well as important economic benefits for Grant County.” Port of Moses Lake Commission President Kent Jones: “Congressman Newhouse has been a strong and consistent advocate for the Port of Moses Lake. His work to ensure the preservation of the radar facility at the Grant County International Airport is critical – that facility allows us to accommodate the diverse needs of our commercial and military users, and it allows us to continue to grow the economy in central Washington.” Background: In 2012, Section 804 of the FAA Modernization and Reform Act directed the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to review FAA towers and Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) systems and determine whether those systems be consolidated or realigned with other larger facilities based on net cost savings and safety. In 2015, Grant County International Airport’s TRACON was listed among FAA facilities nationwide for review for consolidation. Consolidating Grant County’s TRACON would have impaired the county’s ability to provide unique and tailored services for Fairchild Airforce Base, Joint Base Lewis McChord, the U.S. Forest Service, Whidbey Island Naval Air Station, the aerospace industry, and the local community. December 7, 2015 – Letter from Rep. Newhouse and Sens. Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) to FAA Administrator Michael Huerta on impacts of TRACON consolidation to Joint Base Lewis-McChord. June 20, 2016 – Letter from Rep. Newhouse to FAA Administrator Michael Huerta on impacts of TRACON consolidation to Grant County International Airport. July 26, 2016 – Letter from Rep. Newhouse and Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) to FAA Administrator Michael Huerta on impacts of TRACON consolidation to Fairchild Air Force Base. H.R. 302 includes Rep. Newhouse’s military exemption language that prohibits FAA from realigning or consolidating any facilities where military operations comprised 40 percent or more of the total annual Terminal Radar Approach Control systems’ activity in 2015. H.R. 302 establishes industry groups to develop recommendations and strategies for encouraging youth and recruiting women to enter the U.S. aviation workforce. It directs the U.S. Secretary of Transportation to establish the Aviation Maintenance Workforce Development Pilot Program to help close the skills gap and fill aviation maintenance jobs. The provision creates a grant program of up to $500,000 per year available to businesses, unions, schools, and government entities partnering to address the technician shortage. The legislative text is available here. A summary of highlights of the legislation is available here.
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted 361-61 to approve the Conference Report to accompany H.R. 6157, the Department of Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Act, 2019 and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2019. H.R. 6157 provides funding for the Departments of Defense, Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and related agencies, and includes a short-term Continuing Resolution until December 7, 2018 to keep the government open until all annual appropriations funding bills can be considered and signed into law. The legislation now heads to the President for his signature. “I voted for this bipartisan legislation to support funding for our national defense and provide the men and women in our military with the largest pay increase in nine years,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Our military needs stable funding in order to maintain readiness to face current and future threats. This legislation gives our warfighters the tools and the support they need. Approval of this legislation is an important step in returning to regular order and is the first time in a decade that the defense budget will be passed on time. I am also pleased that this bill includes strong support for school safety grants and provides funds to increase access to mental health providers.” Click here and here for more information on the Conference Report. This legislation provides: An increase in troop strength and new equipment. This bill funds an increase of 16,400 in our total troop end strength, and the procurement of new equipment, including 13 Navy ships, 93 F-35 aircraft, 18 C-130J aircraft, 58 UH-60 Black Hawk helicopters, 13 V-22 aircraft, and the upgrade of 135 Abrams tanks. The biggest pay raise for our troops in nine years. This bill fully funds a 2.6 percent pay raise for our troops—the largest in nine years. It provides funding to support service members’ care through cancer research, traumatic brain injury research, and sexual assault prevention.Defense funding on time for the first time in a decade. If enacted, the Defense Department won’t have to operate under a continuing resolution for the first time in 10 years. This gives the Pentagon much-needed stability and predictability after years of stopgap funding.Resources to fight the opioid epidemic. This bill provides a historic level of funding—$3.8 billion—to fight the opioid epidemic, which claims the lives of more than 100 people in our country every day. These resources will go directly to helping treat addiction and expand access to mental health services in communities across the country. Better and safer schools. This bill boosts funding for special education and charter schools. It increases funding for grants that support school safety activities, including student mental health services and bullying prevention. Workforce development. With a record 6.94 million job openings right now, this bill increases funding for career and technical education programs by nearly $95 million. It is another step toward making it easier for students to get the skills and training they need for good jobs.
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Sean Duffy (R-WI) and Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statements after bipartisan legislation they introduced to return management of gray wolves to state control advanced in the House of Representatives. The House Natural Resources Committee approved the legislation in a committee markup today. “Wisconsin farmers are now one step closer to having the legal means to defend their livestock from gray wolves,” said Congressman Duffy. “I’d like to extend a big thank you to the members of the Natural Resources Committee who also agree that states should be the ones to responsibly manage their own gray wolf populations – not Washington bureaucrats.” “I thank Chairman Bishop and my colleagues on the House Natural Resources Committee for advancing this important legislation to delist the gray wolf,” said Congressman Newhouse. “The best-available science used by the U.S. Department of Interior and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service shows that the gray wolf has recovered and is no longer endangered. I continue to hear from and work with the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife, which has been asking for the federal delisting of the gray wolf since 2013. We must return management of the species to states to allow for more effective and accountable management that responds to the needs of the ecosystem, other species, and local communities.” Background: Management of these gray wolves was transferred from the state to the federal level following two 2014 U.S. District Court decisions that reinstated gray wolves under the protections of the Endangered Species Act. These designations leave farmers and ranchers in those states without a legal avenue to protect their livestock from wolves. Click HERE to read H.R. 6784, the Manage Our Wolves Act. Click HERE and HERE to read the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife’s 2015 and 2018 letters requesting the federal delisting of the gray wolf.
09.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement today after President Trump and South Korean President Moon signed a revised free trade deal, the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS). “The revised U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement helps American automakers and farmers by lowering barriers for automotive and agriculture goods,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Leveling the playing field to boost American exports has been one of President Trump’s and U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer’s principal goals. I support their work to revise the KORUS trade agreement and count on continued progress in negotiations with our other international trading partners.” For more information on the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement, click here.
09.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement today after the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) announced a $75,967,000 contract to Spokane’s Garco Construction, Inc., for construction services at Cle Elum Dam. The funds will be used for construction of a helix, gate, and intake for fish passage to begin in spring 2019 and end in the summer 2023. The project is funded under a 50/50 cost-share agreement between the State of Washington and BOR. “Investing in water infrastructure and fish passage is a win-win for Central Washington,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This project will assist salmon and further the development of the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan, which is vital to provide for the many current and future water needs in the Fourth District. Farmers, fish populations, the Yakama Nation, irrigators, conservationists, and the State of Washington are all stakeholders dependent upon the Yakima Basin. This is a positive step forward for fish passage, and I continue to work to ensure the authorization of the next phase of the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan to comprehensively advance all needs in the Plan.” Background: The Cle Elum Dam Fish Passage Project is a component of the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan, a comprehensive and balanced approach to water resources and ecosystem restoration improvements. Work under this contract involves constructing the juvenile fish facility intake structure, gate chamber, and helix chamber from the previously constructed secant pile shaft and tunnel. Principal components are as follows: earthwork; cast-in-place and precast, reinforced concrete features; structural steel, metal fabrications, architectural features; and mechanical and electrical features. Built in 1933, Cle Elum Dam is an earth-fill dam that is owned and operated by the Bureau of Reclamation. Cle Elum Dam is located on the Cle Elum River about 75 miles northwest of Yakima, Washington.
09.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) joined U.S. Representatives Dan Newhouse (R-WA, 4th District), Dave Reichert (R-WA, 8th District), and Denny Heck (D-WA, 10th District) to renew their bipartisan defense of the U.S. polysilicon manufacturing industry in a letter to President Trump. The letter, which highlights immediate and dire threats to the U.S. polysilicon industry, comes as the devastating impacts of Chinese tariffs placed on polysilicon materials in 2014 could force the closure of REC Silicon in Moses Lake. “In July we warned that the trade dispute between the U.S. and China over solar power was threatening hundreds of highly skilled jobs in Washington State and Montana, and we regret to inform you that REC will be forced to completely shutter its operations in Moses Lake, Washington at the end of this month,” the members of Congress wrote. “The closure will result in the loss of 150-200 highly skilled manufacturers and will severely impact the economy of Eastern Washington.” In 2014, China placed tariffs on polysilicon materials, a key component in the production of semiconductors, solar panels, and other technology products, in retaliation for U.S. tariffs previously imposed on energy products from China. The move effectively locked U.S. polysilicon manufacturers out of the market, forcing the closure of REC Silicon at its Moses Lake plant, which relied on Chinese imports of polysilicon materials. In today’s bipartisan letter to President Trump, the members of Congress urged the president to find an immediate resolution to the trade dispute over Chinese solar panels and American polysilicon, noting that hundreds more highly skilled workers could lose their jobs if a solution isn’t found. “We strongly encourage your trade negotiators to raise the issues facing the U.S. polysilicon industry, and we request a progress report on these negotiations as soon as possible,” the letter states. “We believe a resolution over solar panels and polysilicon could serve as a symbol of good faith on both sides, protect intellectual property that provides domestic manufacturers a competitive edge, and spark meaningful progress in the larger trade negotiations between the U.S. and China.” In July of this year, a similar letter was sent to President Trump to underscore the importance of the U.S. polysilicon industry to local economies in Washington and across the country. In addition to Senators Murray and Cantwell and Representatives Newhouse, Reichert, and Heck, the bipartisan letter was also signed by the members of Montana’s congressional delegation, including U.S. Senator Steve Daines (R-MT), U.S. Senator Jon Tester (D-MT), and U.S. Representative Greg Gianforte (R-MT). The full text of the letter can be found HERE and below. September 21, 2018 Dear Mr. President: We write to follow up on a letter sent July 23, 2018 regarding REC Silicon and the U.S. polysilicon manufacturing industry. In July we warned that the trade dispute between the U.S. and China over solar power was threatening hundreds of highly skilled jobs in Washington State and Montana, and we regret to inform you that REC will be forced to completely shutter its operations in Moses Lake, Washington at the end of this month. The closure will result in the loss of 150-200 highly skilled manufacturers and will severely impact the economy of Eastern Washington. As you are undoubtedly aware, in 2012 the Obama Administration unsuccessfully attempted to bolster domestic solar manufacturing capacity by levying tariffs on imported solar panels from China. In response, China announced a 50% tariff on American polysilicon, a crucial input in the production of semiconductors and solar panels. The impact of this Chinese retaliation has been devastating to the U.S. polysilicon industry, which has shed thousands of jobs since China announced tariffs in 2014. The damage inflicted on the US polysilicon industry was of course an unintended consequence, but one that has dramatically affected our constituents. We strongly urge you to move past the unsuccessful actions of the past Administration and find an immediate resolution to the trade dispute over Chinese solar panels and American polysilicon. According to news reports, your Administration may soon reengage China in a new round of trade talks. We strongly encourage your trade negotiators to raise the issues facing the U.S. polysilicon industry, and we request a progress report on these negotiations as soon as possible. We also implore you to separate the negotiations over solar power from the larger bilateral trade conversations between the U.S. and China. The threats to the U.S. polysilicon industry are immediate and dire, and we believe this sectoral dispute could be resolved in a short period of time. We believe a resolution over solar panels and polysilicon could serve as a symbol of good faith on both sides, protect intellectual property that provides domestic manufacturers a competitive edge, and spark meaningful progress in the larger trade negotiations between the U.S. and China. As we wrote in July, it is imperative the United States obtain a positive and permanent resolution for U.S. polysilicon companies like REC Silicon. Without a resolution, hundreds of highly skilled workers will lose their jobs and U.S. control of the world’s most advanced polysilicon technology could be jeopardized. Sincerely,
09.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA), the top Democrat on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), and U.S. Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) applauded a recommendation by the U.S. Forest Service to the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to withdraw 340,000 acres in the Methow Valley from consideration for mining for a 20 year period. “From salmon to farming and outdoor recreation, the Methow Valley holds a special place in the Washington way of life,” Senator Cantwell said. “We can’t afford to lose this area to copper mining. I am encouraged the Forest Service is taking this important step, and I will continue working with the Department of the Interior and the local community to move the process forward and protect the Methow Valley for generations to come.” “At a time when so much of our environment and public lands are under attack, this is incredibly welcome news,” Senator Murray said. “It’s been my mission to carry the concerns of the Methow Valley community to Washington, D.C. to make sure we are protecting this environmentally-sensitive area and continuing to support the Valley’s thriving outdoor recreation economy.” “The Methow Valley is a natural wonder, and the Headwaters is an ecological treasure,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I am pleased that the U.S. Forest Service’s completion of this assessment responded to the local community’s expression of broad support for mineral withdrawal. I will continue to work with Secretary Zinke to have this withdrawal finalized.” The Forest Service’s recommendation to withdraw the area from mining consideration comes after the completion of an Environmental Assessment. The Bureau of Land Management must now schedule a public meeting on the proposal, before a final decision on the withdrawal is made by Joe Balash, the Assistant Secretary for Land and Minerals Management at the Department of the Interior. Nearly one million tourists visit the Methow Valley each year to enjoy the sun, snow, streams, and wildlife, contributing more than $150 million annually to Okanogan County’s economy. The upper Methow is essential to salmon recovery, and more than $100 million has been invested in restoration and conservation efforts. Federal, state, local and private investments have gone to land protection, restoration and restoration projects across the Methow River watershed, supporting outdoor recreation, farmland preservation, and salmon and wildlife habitat enhancement and restoration activities. The Upper Methow Valley is home to seven federally-protected fish and wildlife species, including the Northern spotted owl, grizzly bear, Canada lynx, spring Chinook salmon, steelhead and bull trout. Healthy and intact habitat is also home to bald and golden eagles, martens, mountain goats, mule and white-tailed deer, and wolves.
09.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement today after President Trump signed the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 5895, Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act. “I applaud President Trump for signing legislation into law to provide for the needs of our veterans and our national defense,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This legislation supports critical priorities for Central Washington by authorizing funding to keep Hanford cleanup on track as well as necessary resources for Pacific Northwest National Laboratory.” Rep. Newhouse previously released a statement after the Conference Committee failed to include House-approved language to end a federal judge’s spill order at lower Snake River dams. Legislation highlights: Energy and Water Appropriations – Supports a strong nuclear national security strategy with a total of $15.23 billion for the Department of Energy's nuclear weapons security programs, including the maintenance and readiness of the nuclear stockpile and Naval nuclear reactors. $2.438 billion for Hanford cleanup $865.171 million for Richland Operations $1.573 billion for Office of River Protection Increases funding for the nation's water resources infrastructure by directing $7 billion to the Army Corps of Engineers, an increase of $172 million, which will boost navigation and flood control improvements. Promotes economic competitiveness and energy independence by including $13.5 billion for energy programs, including protecting the safety of the nation’s electrical grid and investments in fossil and nuclear energy research. $6.585 billion for Department of Energy’s Office of Science, supports 10 national laboratories, including the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) ($1.195 billion more than the President’s budget proposal) $705 million for Biological and Environmental Research, supports the Environmental Molecular Sciences Laboratory and Atmospheric Radiation Measurement User Facility at PNNL. These scientific user facilities provide access to unique, state-of-the-art equipment for more than 1,800 users annually. $24 million for the Energy Sciences Capability, supports a construction project at PNNL to provide modern lab space and equipment for chemistry and materials science research and development, a reduction of $16 million from the House version. Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations: Includes the highest dollar level ever for the Department of Veterans Affairs – $86.5 billion discretionary funding – an increase of $5 billion. This includes funds for new and expanded Mission Act programs, increases in mental health services, modernizing the VA’s health records system, and addressing the claims backlog. Provides resources for improved infrastructure for our service members and their families – $10.3 billion for military construction projects, an increase of $241 million, including: Upgrades to infrastructure for deterrence operations and unique training requirements to counter challenges posed by Russia and threats from the Middle East and Africa; Increases for infrastructure and facilities construction and improvements on U.S. military bases; and Housing for all 1,400,000 military families currently served. Legislative Branch Appropriations: Bolsters the safety and security of the Capitol Complex for Members, staff, and the thousands of guests who visit every day by increasing funds for the Capitol Police and security infrastructure improvements. Provides funding for the Office of Employee Advocacy, which provides legal consultation, representation, and assistance on allegations, claims, and complaints under the Congressional Accountability Act. Opens the door for Congressional service to students and young people of all economic backgrounds by dedicating funds for paid internships. Continues the Member of Congress pay freeze. For more detailed information on each of these bills, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/legislation/
09.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA), Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), and Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) highlighted a decision by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to include sweet cherries in the Market Facilitation Program (MFP), which was established through USDA’s Trade Relief Plan, beginning on September 24. The MFP assists farmers hurt by unjustified retaliatory tariffs. The decision comes after the members sent a letter to Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue in August, calling on USDA to provide sweet cherries equal access to the relief measures being developed for U.S. agricultural commodities that have been negatively impacted by retaliatory tariffs. Sweet cherries will be eligible for MFP payments starting at a rate of 16 cents per pound. “While the priority for our growers remains an end to the trade disputes, our cherry growers are estimating they will experience up to $86 million in damages from trade wars during the 2018 season, and they deserve the same assistance afforded to producers of other agricultural commodities that have been negatively impacted by retaliatory tariffs,” the members of Congress wrote to Secretary Perdue in August. “Because sweet cherries are highly perishable, the season is over and damages from increased tariffs and prices are hitting growers, we urge you to implement the support our cherry growers are requesting,” the members of Congress added. Following today’s announcement that sweet cherries will be eligible for the funding, the USDA will announce the specifics of the available aid in the coming weeks. The full text of the letter the members sent to Secretary Perdue in August can be found HERE and below. Dear Secretary Perdue: We write to request that sweet cherries have equal access to any relief measures the Department of Agriculture provides for agricultural commodities impacted by retaliatory tariffs. While the priority for our growers remains an end to the trade disputes, our cherry growers are estimating they will experience up to $86 million in damages from trade wars during the 2018 season, and they deserve the same assistance afforded to producers of other agricultural commodities that have been negatively impacted by retaliatory tariffs. The Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C 714) provides the Secretary of Agriculture broad authority to use the Commodity Credit Corporation to carry out almost any program that supports U.S. agriculture, including expanding domestic and international markets, providing disaster relief, supporting research and pest and disease management, and assisting farmers when crop prices drop or revenues decline. In addition, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018 removed language that once limited the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) ability to provide assistance to certain commodities. Therefore, we believe there are no limitations on how the USDA can assist our agricultural producers or what type of agricultural commodities qualify for assistance. The 2,500 sweet cherry producers grow more cherries in the Pacific Northwest than any other region in the country. Sweet cherries have the shortest growing season of any tree fruit, which typically starts the beginning of May and ends by the middle of August. Sweet cherries are highly perishable, so the cherries must be picked and reach intended markets immediately. Sweet cherries cannot be stored. This harvest time sensitivity and short season creates tremendous pressure for the producer to sell cherries at any available price, even if it means financial losses. On July 24, 2018, you announced that the USDA will use the Commodity Credit Corporation to provide assistance to agricultural producers that have experienced harm from the retaliatory tariffs that have been imposed on U.S. agricultural exports. You announced relief would come in three forms: a market facilitation program that will provide payments to producers that have and continue to experience damage from the ongoing trade wars, a food purchase and distribution program that will purchase surplus agricultural commodities, and a trade promotion program that will assist in developing new markets for agricultural products. Because sweet cherries are highly perishable, the season is over and damages from increased tariffs and prices are hitting growers, we urge you to implement the support our cherry growers are requesting. Sincerely,
09.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House of Representatives approved America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 (S. 3021) by a voice-vote yesterday. The conference legislation is the product of negotiations between House and Senate committees with jurisdiction over various water resources and energy infrastructure issues. S. 3021 includes a provision from Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) to promote early action, infrastructure, and improvements at non-federal dams, including necessary additions to dams such as fish-friendly turbines and critical maintenance. “This legislation invests in the nation’s water resources infrastructure and encourages the use of clean, renewable hydropower by streamlining the regulatory permitting process,” said Rep. Newhouse. “While this bill makes positive changes and provides for maintenance and expedited licensing, it represents a lost opportunity for Central Washington. I am grateful that House negotiators worked during negotiations to try to include my language authorizing the next phase of the Yakima Basin Project, and I am disappointed that Senate Democrats chose to decline this opportunity to include that language in the conference agreement. I am hopeful that before the end of the 115th Congress, there will be another legislative vehicle in which to include this legislation to provide water resources that are vital for Central Washington’s future. I will continue to work with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to fulfill the federal government’s role in authorizing the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan.” In May, the House Natural Resources Committee reported Rep. Newhouse’s legislation, H.R. 4419, the Bureau of Reclamation and Bureau of Indian Affairs Water Project Streamlining Act out of committee with bipartisan support. Background on America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018: IMPROVES AMERICA’S WATER RESOURCES INFRASTRUCTURE: Provides for needed investment in our ports, channels, locks, dams, and other infrastructure that supports the maritime and waterways transportation system and provides flood protection for homes and businesses. Authorizes Army Corps of Engineers Chief’s Reports received since the last WRDA law of 2016. Chief’s Reports are the final recommendations to Congress by the Corps’ Chief of Engineers for thoroughly studied water resources infrastructure priorities. These infrastructure improvements have been proposed at the local level, in cooperation and consultation with the Corps, and provide national economic and environmental benefits. All Chief’s Reports have been fully vetted by the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee at hearings this Congress. Authorizes studies for future water resources improvements included in the Corps’ 2017 and 2018 annual reports to Congress. Reauthorizes the Levee Safety Initiative, and the National Dam Safety Program through 2023 to help protect American communities from flooding. Keeps American jobs in America by strengthening our competitiveness and ensuring that our transportation system remains attractive to private sector job creators. PROMOTES HYDROPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND INCREASES FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION TRANSPARENCY: Encourages the use of clean, baseload hydropower by streamlining the regulatory permitting process. Gets new hydropower projects to market faster, saving time and money. Removes barriers to investments in hydropower, which creates jobs and provides low-cost, emissions free electricity to consumers. Strengthens consumers’ participation in the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) rate process by increasing transparency. Click here for more information about the America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018. NOTE: This bill includes a provision from H.R. 3043, the Hydropower Policy Modernization Act of 2017, which passed the House with bipartisan support in November 2017. The provision promotes early action, infrastructure, and improvements at non-federal dams. This promotes necessary additions to dams like fish friendly turbines and critical maintenance. Right now, these improvements must be made within a small window of time to count towards a dams’ new license. With this language included, these improvements can be made outside of that window and count towards the next license. H.R. 2872, the Promoting Hydropower Development at Existing Nonpowered Dams Act, which promotes hydropower development at existing nonpowered dams by establishing an expedited licensing process that will result in a final decision on an application in two years or less, and H.R. 2880, the Promoting Closed-Loop Pumped Storage Hydropower Act, to promote closed-loop pumped storage for hydropower development by establishing an expedited licensing process that will result in a final decision on an application in two years or less.
09.14.2018	WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Transportation noticed a grant for the Methow Valley State Airport in Winthrop, WA. The federal grant will fund the final phase of construction to expand the existing west general aviation apron to provide additional space for aircraft parking and meet Federal Aviation Administration standards. “I am very pleased with the federal funding announcement to provide $1.1 million for the final phase of apron expansion for the Methow Valley State Airport,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The completion of this project is vital to fulfill Federal Aviation Administration standards and keep the North Cascade Smokejumper Base in Winthrop where it belongs.” Grant Description: $1,150,000.00 for to rehabilitate the apron and runway at Methow Valley State Airport. Click here for the North Cascades Smokejumper Base Preliminary Project Analysis Base Location Alternatives report by U.S. Forest Service, which lays out the required apron improvements at Methow Valley Airport (page 40) that are funded by this federal grant. Additional details on the grant can be found here. In June, Rep. Newhouse ensured that the Interior Appropriations bill approved by the House Appropriations Committee included his language supporting the North Cascades Smokejumper Base remaining in Winthrop.
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statements on House passage of the “minibus,” Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 5895, Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act. The Senate approved the conference legislation earlier this week. “This vital legislation provides funds for our national defense and for the needs of our veterans,” said Rep Newhouse. “It keeps Hanford cleanup on strong footing, ensuring that the federal government continues its legal and moral obligation to the people of the Mid-Columbia. The minibus funds programs at our National Labs, and while the Senate provided a smaller number than the House for Energy Sciences Capability construction, this bill provides necessary resources for researchers at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory.” “Despite the many benefits of fully-functioning dams on the Lower Snake River and science that shows increased dam spill actually harms juvenile salmon, I am disappointed that the Senate failed to keep House-approved language I worked on to end the unnecessary spill order. Imposed by a single federal judge, who substituted his own opinion over the collaborative scientific expertise of a multitude of stakeholders who agreed to the 2014 Biological Opinion governing dam operations, the spill order increases costs while harming salmon. The federal government is responsible for effective management of the Federal Columbia River Power System, on which the livelihoods of so many Mid-Columbia residents depend, and the harmful ad hoc decision by a judge demands action by Congress. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to address the damaging spill in order to keep our dams functioning effectively. I am pleased that the conference report expressed grave concerns, which I share, about this judicial interference that has no scientific backing and threatens the reliability of the federal power and transmission systems. The conference report also makes clear that no funds for federal dam removal are included in this act.” On Monday, Rep. Newhouse participated in a House Natural Resources Committee field hearing in Pasco, WA titled, "The Federal Columbia River Power System: The Economic Lifeblood & Way of Life for the Pacific Northwest." Legislation highlights: Energy and Water Appropriations – Supports a strong nuclear national security strategy with a total of $15.23 billion for the Department of Energy's nuclear weapons security programs, including the maintenance and readiness of the nuclear stockpile and Naval nuclear reactors. $2.438 billion for Hanford cleanup $865.171 million for Richland Operations $1.573 billion for Office of River Protection Increases funding for the nation's water resources infrastructure by directing $7 billion to the Army Corps of Engineers, an increase of $172 million, which will boost navigation and flood control improvements. Promotes economic competitiveness and energy independence by including $13.5 billion for energy programs, including protecting the safety of the nation’s electrical grid and investments in fossil and nuclear energy research. $6.585 billion for Department of Energy’s Office of Science, supports 10 national laboratories, including the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) ($1.195 billion more than the President’s budget proposal) $705 million for Biological and Environmental Research, supports the Environmental Molecular Sciences Laboratory and Atmospheric Radiation Measurement User Facility at PNNL. These scientific user facilities provide access to unique, state-of-the-art equipment for more than 1,800 users annually. $24 million for the Energy Sciences Capability, supports a construction project at PNNL to provide modern lab space and equipment for chemistry and materials science research and development, a reduction of $16 million from the House version. Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations: Includes the highest dollar level ever for the Department of Veterans Affairs – $86.5 billion discretionary funding – an increase of $5 billion. This includes funds for new and expanded Mission Act programs, increases in mental health services, modernizing the VA’s health records system, and addressing the claims backlog. Provides resources for improved infrastructure for our service members and their families – $10.3 billion for military construction projects, an increase of $241 million, including: Upgrades to infrastructure for deterrence operations and unique training requirements to counter challenges posed by Russia and threats from the Middle East and Africa; Increases for infrastructure and facilities construction and improvements on U.S. military bases; and Housing for all 1,400,000 military families currently served. Legislative Branch Appropriations: Bolsters the safety and security of the Capitol Complex for Members, staff, and the thousands of guests who visit every day by increasing funds for the Capitol Police and security infrastructure improvements. Provides funding for the Office of Employee Advocacy, which provides legal consultation, representation, and assistance on allegations, claims, and complaints under the Congressional Accountability Act. Opens the door for Congressional service to students and young people of all economic backgrounds by dedicating funds for paid internships. Continues the Member of Congress pay freeze. For more detailed information on each of these bills, please visit: https://appropriations.house.gov/legislation/
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Sean Duffy (R-WI) and Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) introduced legislation with bipartisan support that would return management of gray wolves to state control. Management of these gray wolves were transferred from the state to the federal level following two 2014 U.S. District Court decisions that reinstated gray wolves under the protections of the Endangered Species Act. These designations leave farmers and ranchers in those states without a legal avenue to protect their livestock from wolves. “Wisconsin deserves the opportunity to use science-based wildlife management for our own gray wolf population, because we know what’s better for our state’s ecosystem better than activist judges in Washington,” said Congressman Duffy. “I’m proud to introduce bipartisan legislation to delist the gray wolf because Wisconsin farmers deserve to be able to protect their livestock, and they should not suffer because of the decisions made by an overreaching federal government a thousand miles away.” “According to the U.S. Department of Interior and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s best available scientific evidence, the gray wolf is not endangered and no longer warrants federal endangered species’ protection,” said Congressman Newhouse. “Our bipartisan legislation would take sound science into account. It would return management of the gray wolf to the states according to the needs of the species as well as the needs of farmers and ranchers in Central Washington.” Background: Click HERE to read the Manage Our Wolves Act.
08.27.2018	Sunnyside, WA – U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today released the following statement on President Trump’s announcement of a preliminary North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) deal with Mexico: "President Trump's announcement of a preliminary agreement to update the U.S.-Mexico portion of NAFTA is encouraging news for America's farmers and exporters who rely on access to our trading partners' markets," said Rep. Newhouse. "While details of a final deal remain, the movement toward zero tariffs on agriculture products, increasing transparency to reduce trade distorting policies, and decreasing non-tariff trade barriers to ensure sanitary and phytosanitary measures are based on science will strengthen the economic relationship with our Southern neighbor. I look forward to seeing similar progress with Canada so that a modernized NAFTA agreement can fairly reflect the interests of all."
08.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA), Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) called on the U.S. Department of Agriculture to provide sweet cherries equal access to the relief measures being developed for U.S. agricultural commodities that have been negatively impacted by retaliatory tariffs. Last month, Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue announced that the department would provide assistance to agricultural producers harmed by increased tariffs and prices, but it has not yet released how and what agricultural commodities will receive this assistance. “While the priority for our growers remains an end to the trade disputes, our cherry growers are estimating they will experience up to $86 million in damages from trade wars during the 2018 season, and they deserve the same assistance afforded to producers of other agricultural commodities that have been negatively impacted by retaliatory tariffs,” the members of Congress said in a letter to Secretary Perdue. Sweet cherry growers are estimating up to $86 million in damages from the trade wars, with increased costs coming directly out-of-pocket. “Because sweet cherries are highly perishable, the season is over and damages from increased tariffs and prices are hitting growers, we urge you to implement the support our cherry growers are requesting,” the members of Congress said. The full text of the letter can be found HERE and below. Dear Secretary Perdue: We write to request that sweet cherries have equal access to any relief measures the Department of Agriculture provides for agricultural commodities impacted by retaliatory tariffs. While the priority for our growers remains an end to the trade disputes, our cherry growers are estimating they will experience up to $86 million in damages from trade wars during the 2018 season, and they deserve the same assistance afforded to producers of other agricultural commodities that have been negatively impacted by retaliatory tariffs. The Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C 714) provides the Secretary of Agriculture broad authority to use the Commodity Credit Corporation to carry out almost any program that supports U.S. agriculture, including expanding domestic and international markets, providing disaster relief, supporting research and pest and disease management, and assisting farmers when crop prices drop or revenues decline. In addition, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018 removed language that once limited the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) ability to provide assistance to certain commodities. Therefore, we believe there are no limitations on how the USDA can assist our agricultural producers or what type of agricultural commodities qualify for assistance. The 2,500 sweet cherry producers grow more cherries in the Pacific Northwest than any other region in the country. Sweet cherries have the shortest growing season of any tree fruit, which typically starts the beginning of May and ends by the middle of August. Sweet cherries are highly perishable, so the cherries must be picked and reach intended markets immediately. Sweet cherries cannot be stored. This harvest time sensitivity and short season creates tremendous pressure for the producer to sell cherries at any available price, even if it means financial losses. On July 24, 2018, you announced that the USDA will use the Commodity Credit Corporation to provide assistance to agricultural producers that have experienced harm from the retaliatory tariffs that have been imposed on U.S. agricultural exports. You announced relief would come in three forms: a market facilitation program that will provide payments to producers that have and continue to experience damage from the ongoing trade wars, a food purchase and distribution program that will purchase surplus agricultural commodities, and a trade promotion program that will assist in developing new markets for agricultural products. Because sweet cherries are highly perishable, the season is over and damages from increased tariffs and prices are hitting growers, we urge you to implement the support our cherry growers are requesting. Sincerely,
08.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Charles Freeman, Kennewick Irrigation District (KID) District Manager, and Dean Dennis, KID Board of Directors President hosted a press conference on Rep. Newhouse’s introduction of H.R. 6652, federal legislation to transfer title of U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) lands to KID. In accordance with the December 2017 Memorandum of Agreement between KID and BOR, this legislation will transfer title of works beginning at KID’s head gate and extending 40 miles east. The transfer includes the conveyance of land and project facilities and should be completed no later than two years after the enactment. “Water providers across our region and across the West face numerous challenges to supply water, including growing demand, aging infrastructure, and changing precipitation patterns,” said Rep. Newhouse. “By transferring title to a local entity like the KID, water suppliers can better manage critical water resources and empower water managers to be as responsive, efficient, and innovative as possible in serving the community. I am proud that this bill will streamline water uses while reducing government waste and burdensome regulations.” President of KID Board of Directors, Dean Dennis, and KID District Manager, Charles Freeman released the following statement: “We would like to thank Congressman Newhouse for introducing this important legislation for our District and community. Title transfer allows the District to take ownership of what our customers have paid for. It will greatly benefit our community by allowing local challenges to be addressed locally and enhancing operational efficiencies. Thank you again, Congressman Newhouse, for your leadership and support on this legislation.” Click here to read the text of H.R. 6652. Background: H.R. 6652 conveys title for the facilities managed and operated by Kennewick Irrigation District (KID). It does not privatize federal water projects or properties within the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (BOR). KID will complete an environmental assessment under the National Environmental Policy Act, as well as all necessary Endangered Species Act, National Historical Preservation Act, and hazardous review processes. KID and BOR have committed to ensuring that all stakeholders, tribal concerns, and local interests have a seat at the table throughout the process. In addition to ensuring the proper reviews are completed, KID will repay their allocated share of construction costs to the federal government.
08.03.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on new guidance from the U.S. Department of Interior, the National Park Service (NPS), and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) advising that NPS and FWS would seek further stakeholder input to inform the planning and decision-making process related to the North Cascades Ecosystem Grizzly Bear Restoration Plan/Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) before any decision is made on the proposal: “I am very pleased with the guidance from National Park Service, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and Department of Interior that NPS and FWS will take additional time to seek further stakeholder input in response to concerns I have raised on behalf of my constituents,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Local communities must be allowed to give input before any decision is made. The communities most affected by the North Cascades Ecosystem Grizzly Bear Restoration Plan/Environmental Impact Statement are stakeholders whose voices must be taken into account, and I appreciate the willingness of the involved federal agencies to listen.” The DOI/NPS/FWS guidance reads: “The National Park Service and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service are continuing analysis related to the North Cascades Ecosystem Grizzly Bear Restoration Plan/Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). In response to requests from stakeholders, including specific inquiries from Congressman Dan Newhouse, the two bureaus are taking appropriate additional time to consider and evaluate further stakeholder input to inform the planning and decision making process. Public input, reliance on the best available science, and coordination with affected communities, agencies, and organizations will be critical before any decision is made.”
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today released the following statement after voting in favor of the bipartisan Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 5515 - John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (or NDAA). The Conference Report legislation was agreed to with the Senate and passed the House on a bipartisan vote of 359-54. The bill authorizes funding for national defense and national security programs of the Department of Energy, including offices at Hanford, and includes Rep. Newhouse’s amendment to reauthorize the Office of River Protection (ORP) in Richland through 2024. “The federal government has a legal and moral obligation to clean up Hanford safely and efficiently,” said Rep. Newhouse. “With the bipartisan approval of this Conference Report, my amendment to reauthorize the Office of River Protection through 2024 will ensure that federal cleanup efforts at the Hanford Site are kept on track by supporting ORP’s mission to focus on tank waste. This NDAA funds a pay raise for our troops and provides for the common defense of our nation, and I am proud that it passed the House today with such overwhelming support from both sides of the aisle.” The NDAA Conference Report authorizes funding at $708,171,000 for the Richland Operations Office (RL), an increase from the President’s Budget Request of $658,171,000, and $1,438,513 for the Office of River Protection (ORP). The FY19 NDAA authorizes a total of $708.1 billion in discretionary funding, including $639.1 billion in base budget and $69 billion in Overseas Contingency Operations, giving U.S. Secretary of Defense James Mattis the tools he needs to restore military readiness. The legislation fully funds a 2.6% pay raise for the troops – the highest increase in nine years.
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-TX) released the following statements after the House Committee on Appropriations approved an amendment they offered to the Fiscal Year 2019 Homeland Security Appropriations Act. The legislation provides for critical programs such as border and immigration enforcement, customs activities, protection against cyberterrorism, aviation security, natural disaster response, border security, and temporary guest-workers. Rep. Newhouse and Rep. Cuellar’s bipartisan amendment applies the H-2A program to all of agriculture, and it was adopted by unanimous voice vote: “Farmers facing a shortage of agriculture labor have not been well-served by the current H-2A program,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Modern agriculture demands modernization of the bureaucratic H-2A program, and as farming methods have become less seasonal or able to produce multiple harvests, the H-2A program must be updated to meet the needs of the agriculture industry. I am grateful to my colleague Rep. Cuellar for working with me on a bipartisan solution to make H-2A more workable for farmers.” “Today, large segments of American agriculture face a critical lack of workers,” said Congressman Cuellar. “This amendment is simple— it provides the agriculture industry with the access to workers it needs by making clear that all agriculture may utilize H-2A. The reality is that the H-2A program is not working for the entirety of the American agriculture industry. In fact, it excludes non-seasonal agricultural sectors, such as dairy farming, and puts them at a disadvantage. This amendment will clear the path for our farmers and ranchers to gain access to much needed workers that will benefit the local economy in my district and across the country. I would like to thank Rep. Newhouse for working with me in a bipartisan manner to address this issue.” Newhouse/Cuellar H-2A Amendment Summary: Rep. Newhouse and Rep. Cuellar’s amendment clarifies that for FY2019 all of agriculture may use the H-2A program. Under the amendment, H-2A would still remain a temporary program. Additionally, the amendment would not change the time limits a worker employed through the H-2A program can stay in the U.S., and it would maintain the requirement that farmers show they are advertising open positions and are trying to hire domestic workers first. The amendment would simply ensure that all of agriculture is able to utilize the program. The agriculture industry’s labor situation has been a concern for many years, and currently large segments of American agriculture face a critical shortage of workers. This shortfall is exacerbated by the fact that the H-2A program is not working for all of agriculture, such as dairies and agriculture operations with multiple crops and harvests. Click here for the amendment text. WATCH Newhouse Remarks on Bipartisan H2A Amendment Transcription: Today the labor situation in agriculture is a huge concern. Large segments of the American agriculture truly face a critical lack of employees. This is worsened by the fact the H-2A program, commonly thought of as our ag guest worker program, is not working or is simply not available for all of agriculture. Today with modern techniques, the seasonality that used to define agriculture really doesn’t exist. More and more fresh produce is produced in green houses, crops like mushrooms can be harvested year-round. Dairy, for example, is currently excluded from using H-2A because, as you know, milking is not seasonal. Cows have to milk at least twice a day – at some dairies, three times a day – seven days a week, 365 days a year. Many operations have multiple crops on their farms with harvests that come one right after another. In short, these farms have multiple seasons condensed into their operations. When farmers are using the program, they are plagued by bureaucratic red tape. Delays in the program, leading to fights with regulators when the season starts. Ultimately resulting in workers showing up on the farm well after the date that they were needed. This can result in millions of dollars in lost agriculture production. So my amendment is simple. It clarifies that all of agriculture may use the H-2A program, so it is truly our nation’s agricultural guest worker program. Now to be clear, H-2A would still be a temporary program. This amendment would not change time limits a worker employed through the H2A program can stay in the United States. It would not change requirements on farmers how they must show that they are hiring domestic workers first. It would just ensure that all of agriculture is able to utilize the program. It’s a small step that we can take to provide some much needed relief to our farmers by making it clear that all of Agriculture may utilize this program. I would ask for support from my colleagues on this amendment.
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today released the following statement after meeting with President Trump and other members of Congress at the White House on agriculture and trade. Just before the meeting, President Trump announced an agreement with European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker to ease tensions to avoid a trade war: “President Trump’s announcement today in the Rose Garden with the European Commission President on lowering trade tensions with one of our most important trading partners is a welcome development,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This President is working to level the playing field as no one has done before to address unfair trading practices. In our meeting, I brought up the challenges of Central Washington cherry-growers who are facing retaliatory tariffs as one example of export-reliant American industries that have been paying the price for rising tension. The European Union’s agreement to increase imports of American products, as well as working toward the goal of zero tariffs, zero non-tariff barriers, and zero subsidies is a very positive step. Today’s announcement of reexamining plans for additional tariffs and putting existing tariffs on hold while trade talks continue with the EU will go a long way to rebuilding confidence with our trading partners. America can be strong on trade by defending our interests while maintaining our export markets. I stand ready to work with the President to strengthen relationships with our other trading partners as expeditiously as possible.”
07.23.2018	In a new bipartisan letter, WA & MT members of Senate and House call attention to dire effects of Chinese tariffs on polysilicon materials Trade dispute driving U.S polysilicon manufacturers out of business, has already forced REC Silicon to lay off more than 300 employees at Moses Lake, WA plant Members: “It is imperative the U.S. direct these talks toward a positive and permanent resolution for U.S. polysilicon companies, including REC, while persuading China to play fair” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA, 4th District) shined a spotlight on the devastating impact of Chinese tariffs on polysilicon materials, a move that has negatively affected polysilicon manufacturers in Moses Lake, WA, and hurt its local economy and job market. In 2014, China placed tariffs on polysilicon materials, a key component in the production of semiconductors, solar panels and other technology products, in retaliation for U.S. tariffs previously imposed on energy products from China. The move effectively locked U.S. polysilicon manufacturers, who rely on Chinese imports of polysilicon materials, out of the market – including REC Silicon, which was recently forced to lay off approximately 40 percent of the workforce, or nearly 100 employees, at its Moses Lake, WA plant. In all, REC Silicon has laid off more than 300 employees at its Moses Lake plant since the tariffs went into effect. In a bipartisan letter to President Trump, the members underscored the importance of the U.S. polysilicon industry to local economies across the country, including in Moses Lake, and urged President Trump to resolve the United States’ deepening trade war with China that is negatively impacting U.S. workers, businesses, and communities. The members have previously raised concerns about how President Trump’s accelerating trade dispute with China and other U.S. trading partners is having a negative impact on Washington state’s economy, including agriculture products, airplane exports, and more. “On July 2nd, REC announced the layoff of nearly 40 percent of its workforce in Moses Lake, amounting to approximately 95 employees across the company..[t]his is the most recent round of several layoffs at REC as a direct consequence of China’s unfair trade retaliation, but this is the most severe to date, and we fear further job losses may follow in the near term,” said the members in the letter. “Job loss to this degree hits particularly hard in rural communities like Moses Lake, where the unemployment rate stands at 6.2 percent, almost double the national average…[i]n addition to further layoffs, China’s devastating trade retaliation is forcing REC to consider a complete shutdown of its operations in Washington State within the coming months. This will result in the loss of the remaining 200 highly skilled jobs in Moses Lake, and will jeopardize the United States’ control of the most energy-efficient technology used globally to create polysilicon. “ The letter continued: “Without a permanent resolution, a series of harmful economic effects will continue to domino in our states and the United States will suffer severe and possibly irreversible setbacks in its ability to manufacture semiconductors, solar panels, and other new technology products without reliance on China.” In addition to Senators Murray and Cantwell and Representative Newhouse, the bipartisan letter was also signed by the members of Montana’s congressional delegations, including U.S. Senators Jon Tester (D-MT) and Steve Daines (R-MT), and U.S. Representative Greg Gianforte (R-MT). The full text of the letter can be found HERE and below. July 23rd, 2018 Dear Mr. President: As Members of Congress representing Washington State and Montana, we urgently seek your assistance to meaningfully engage in discussions with China toward a positive resolution around the trade disputes and retaliatory duties imposed by China that are negatively impacting the U.S. polysilicon manufacturing sector. Developing a path to resolution away from the current standstill will effectively mean saving hundreds of jobs this industry supports in our home states. Polysilicon is a high-tech, advanced raw material, and is the critical ingredient to the production of semiconductors and solar panels. Polysilicon is expected to be the foundation of new strategic products that are likely to dominant future growth in certain technologies, like silicon based batteries and electric vehicles. Unfortunately, the economic impact of Chinese anti-dumping and countervailing duties that were imposed on the U.S. polysilicon industry in retaliation for U.S. duties on Chinese solar products in 2014 has devastated this once strong U.S. industry across the country. The direct effect of this unfair Chinese trade enforcement action has had particularly dire effects for REC Silicon (REC), a U.S. manufacturer of polysilicon with major operations in Moses Lake, Washington and Butte, Montana. On July 2nd, REC announced the layoff of nearly 40 percent of its workforce in Moses Lake, amounting to approximately 95 employees across the company. At REC’s manufacturing facility in Butte, many workers have also lost their jobs. This is the most recent round of several layoffs at REC as a direct consequence of China’s unfair trade retaliation, but this is the most severe to date, and we fear further job losses may follow in the near term. Job loss to this degree hits particularly hard in rural communities like Moses Lake, where the unemployment rate stands at 6.2 percent, almost double the national average. This is especially devastating when you consider that at its peak in 2011, REC generated $1 billion in annual revenues from its manufacturing operations across the United States and accounted for approximately 900 high-paying jobs. In addition to further layoffs, China’s devastating trade retaliation is forcing REC to consider a complete shutdown of its operations in Washington State within the coming months. This will result in the loss of the remaining 200 highly skilled jobs in Moses Lake, and will jeopardize the United States’ control of the most energy-efficient technology used globally to create polysilicon. We also understand that this dispute is putting potentially undue pressure on and further threatening jobs at the two other remaining U.S. polysilicon producers affected by this dispute. Without a permanent resolution, a series of harmful economic effects will continue to domino in our states and the United States will suffer severe and possibly irreversible setbacks in its ability to manufacture semiconductors, solar panels, and other new technology products without reliance on China. As such, we request your immediate attention to this issue by elevating this dispute in the ongoing conversations between your Administration and Chinese officials. It is imperative the U.S. direct these talks toward a positive and permanent resolution for U.S. polysilicon companies, including REC, while persuading China to play fair. Doing so would preserve hundreds of U.S. jobs and American technological leadership in polysilicon manufacturing. Cc: The Honorable Robert Lighthizer, United States Trade Representative The Honorable Wilbur Ross, Secretary of Commerce The Honorable Steven Mnuchin, Secretary of the Treasury The Honorable Terry Branstad, Ambassador of the United States to China The Honorable Larry Kudlow, Assistant to the President for Economic Policy The Honorable Peter Navarro, Assistant to the President for Trade and Manufacturing Policy The Honorable Everett Eissenstat, Deputy Assistant to the President for International Economic Affairs Sincerely,
07.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives approved H.R. 6147, the Interior, Environment, Financial Services, and General Government Appropriations Act. This legislation provides annual funding for the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the U.S. Forest Service, the Indian Health Service, and various independent and related agencies. The House-approved legislation includes Rep. Newhouse’s amendment to deny funding for the U.S. Department of Interior proposal to transport grizzly bears to the North Cascades. “I am pleased that the House approved this bill that includes priorities for rural areas of Central Washington, including wildfire prevention and mitigation and preserving the critical North Cascades Smokejumper Base in Winthrop,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Transporting grizzly bears to the North Cascades would have a harmful impact on rural residents. Federal agencies must take sound science into account as well as the input of the local community, and local residents’ voices must be heard. “I am proud that this legislation takes the fiscally conservative step of saving 2.5 cents for every dollar spent,” Rep. Newhouse continued. “It cuts $585 million and safeguards those funds until the budget deficit is erased. We must address our nation’s debt load in the interest of national security and for our children’s future.” Background: H.R. 6147 includes a measure authored by Rep. Tom Graves (R-GA), chairman of the Appropriations Financial Services Subcommittee, to create the Fund for America’s Kids and Grandkids. This account safeguards funds for future generations, as money in the account is not accessible until the budget deficit is erased. Rep. Graves cut $585 million from across the bill to make an initial deposit, which represents 2.5 percent of the total allocation for the Financial Services Appropriations bill. Rep. Newhouse’s measures that are priorities for Central Washington include provisions for the North Cascades Smokejumper Base, gray wolf delisting, the Wolf-Livestock Loss Demonstration Program, and grazing management. The legislation includes the following measures and report language: Gray Wolves - Bill Language: SEC. 117. (a) Not later than the end of fiscal year 2019, and except as provided in subsection (b), the Secretary of the Interior shall issue a rule to remove the gray wolf (Canis lupus) in each of the 48 contiguous States of the United States and the District of Columbia from the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife in section 17.11 of title 50, Code of Federal Regulations, without regard to any other provision of statute or regulation that applies to issuance of such rule. (b) Such issuance (including this section)— (1) shall not be subject to judicial review; and (2) shall not affect the inclusion of the sub species classified as the Mexican gray wolf (Canis lupus baileyi) of the species gray wolf (Canis lupus) in such list. North Cascades Smokejumper Base - Report Language: The Committee is aware the North Cascades Smokejumper Base in Winthrop, Washington, needs facility upgrades, improvements, and renovations to meet Federal Aviation Administration compliance standards and requirements and understands the Service has completed a Preliminary Project Analysis that recommends maintaining the base. The Committee urges the Service to devote the necessary resources to ensure the base can maintain operational excellence. Bighorn Sheep Research - Report Language: The Service is urged to collaborate with the Bureau of Land Management and the Agricultural Research Service on research involving the risk of disease transmission between domestic and bighorn sheep. (Same language for BLM w/USFS). Grazing Management - Report Language: The Committee encourages the Service to improve its monitoring of grazing permits in allotments where riparian streamside health is a concern for listed or threatened species. The Committee also requests that each Forest Service region increase transparency and reporting on how their monitoring resources are used on the ground to satisfy monitoring requirements or for other purposes. Wildland Firefighting and Prevention – In total, the bill funds wildland firefighting and prevention programs at $3.9 billion, fully funding the 10-year average for wildland fire suppression costs for both the Department of the Interior and the Forest Service, and providing robust additional funding – $500 million– for Forest Service suppression operations. The legislation also includes $655 million for hazardous fuels management, which is $30 million above the fiscal year 2018 level. Federal Payments to Local Communities – The bill provides $500 million for “Payments In Lieu of Taxes” (PILT), $35 million above the budget request. PILT provides funds for local governments in 49 states to help offset losses in property taxes due to nontaxable federal lands within their counties. Without congressional action, many rural communities would face huge budget shortfalls impacting public safety, education, and other local government responsibilities.
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Representatives Collin Peterson (D-Minn.), Lamar Smith (R-Texas), Henry Cuellar (D-Texas), Dan Newhouse (R-Wash.), Michael Conaway (R-Texas), and Ken Calvert (R-Calif.) today introduced the bipartisan AG and Legal Workforce Act (H.R. 6417). Representatives Mark Meadows (R-N.C.), chair of the House Freedom Caucus, Mark Walker (R-N.C.), chair of the Republican Study Committee, and John Katko (R-N.Y.), chair of the Tuesday Group, are also original cosponsors. The AG and Legal Workforce Act replaces the outdated and broken H-2A agricultural guestworker program with a new, workable agricultural guestworker program, known as the H-2C program, to ensure America’s farmers and ranchers have access to a reliable workforce. The H-2C program is available to both seasonal and year-round agricultural employers, provides a generous visa allocation to ensure labor needs are met, provides much needed flexibility to minimize disruptions in farm operations, eliminates regulatory burdens, and contains effective accountability and enforcement provisions. These provisions are supported by over 200 agricultural groups, including the American Farm Bureau Federation. The AG and Legal Workforce Act also requires all U.S. employers to use E-Verify, an effective web-based program that protects jobs for legal workers. The bill repeals the error-prone, paper-based I-9 system and replaces it with E-Verify. It contains a gradual phase-in for employers—starting with the largest employers first and eventually phasing in small businesses and agricultural employers. Below are statements on the introduction of the AG and Legal Workforce Act. Chairman Goodlatte: “The AG and Legal Workforce Act addresses two of the most pressing issues facing our immigration system: illegal immigration and the need for a workable agricultural guestworker program for America’s farmers and ranchers. To address illegal immigration, the bill gradually rolls out E-Verify nation-wide to ensure jobs are protected for legal workers. E-Verify – a user-friendly, web-based program that quickly confirms 99% of work-eligible employees – takes less than two minutes to use and is an effective tool to combat illegal immigration. “Importantly, the AG and Legal Workforce Act also creates a new, workable agricultural guestworker program to ensure labor demands are met and crops get to market on time. The bill incorporates many of the comments and concerns I have heard from the agriculture community over the past several years. When not enough Americans can be found to fill jobs, the bill ensures that American farmers have access to a reliable workforce to fill positions needed to keep their farms afloat. The agricultural community has waited far too long for a workable guestworker program and it’s past time to enact a solution.” Congressman Peterson: “Farmers and ranchers across the country have repeatedly told us of their need for a reliable workforce. This will help to move that process forward and address an issue that is long overdue.” Congressman Smith: “Expanding the E-Verify system accomplishes two goals: it protects jobs for American workers and reduces illegal immigration by cutting off the jobs magnet. Requiring all U.S. employers to check the work authorization of new employees ensures that the jobs only go to Americans and legal workers. A recent Washington Post-ABC News poll shows that 82% of voters favor requiring business owners to check the immigration status of employees they hire. E-Verify receives the most public support of any proposed immigration reform.” Congressman Cuellar: “The Ag and Legal Workforce Act will help us meet important goals and offers vast improvements over the existing H-2A program. This bill will help address the shortage of workers that the agricultural industry has been experiencing over the years by ensuring that there is a steady flow of labor. It will also allow experienced agricultural workers who are currently undocumented in the U.S. to join and participate in the H-2C program and work here legally. I respectfully ask for bipartisan support and urge swift passage of the Ag and Legal Workforce Act for America’s hardworking agricultural producers and farm workers.” Congressman Newhouse: “The current labor shortage facing farmers must be improved by fixing the legal guest worker program. Farmers and our rural economy are being harmed by the current bureaucratic system that is not even available to all of agriculture. In order to continue domestic production of our own safe and affordable food in the U.S., Congress must pass legislation to reform our guest worker program and provide a stable, legal workforce for agriculture. I applaud the Speaker and Majority Leader for their commitment to bring this to the floor.” Congressman Conaway: “We need an ag worker program that respects our nation’s immigration laws and keeps American agriculture competitive. This bill takes important steps to cut red tape and institutes a flexible program that accounts for the different labor needs of various producers. Chairman Goodlatte has been very responsive to the concerns of the ag community, and I look forwarding to working with him to help shepherd this legislation through the House.” Congressman Calvert: “I commend Chairman Goodlatte and Representative Lamar Smith for their dedication and hard work on one of the toughest issues our Conference, and the Congress, faces: illegal immigration. The bill introduced today takes a monumental step towards ending the incentive that brings people here illegally: mandating the use of E-Verify. However, we need to be realistic about the labor needs of the agricultural industry and that is why this bill includes a workable guest labor program. I am grateful to the Chairman for the additional modifications that have gone even farther to accommodate agricultural labor needs. The time to act is now and I look forward to supporting this bill on the Floor.” Additional original cosponsors of the bill are: Representatives Ralph Abraham (R-La.), Robert Aderholt (R-Ala.), Andy Barr (R-Ky.), Ken Buck (R-Colo.), Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), Tom Cole (R-Okla.), Chris Collins (R-N.Y.), James Comer (R-Ky.), Kevin Cramer (R-N.D.), Rick Crawford (R-Ark.), John Curtis (R-Utah), Scott DesJarlais (R-Tenn.), Sean Duffy (R-Wis.), Neal Dunn (R-Fla.), Ron Estes (R-Kan.), John Faso (R-N.Y.), Mike Gallagher (R-Wis.), Andy Harris (R-Md.), Lynn Jenkins (R-Kan.), Walter Jones (R-N.C.), Frank Lucas (R-Okla.), Tom Marino (R-Pa.), Roger Marshall (R-Kan.), Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), Tom Reed (R-N.Y.), Dennis Ross (R-Fla.), David Rouzer (R-N.C.), Austin Scott (R-Ga.), Elise Stefanik (R-N.Y.), Steve Stivers (R-Ohio), Claudia Tenney (R-N.Y.), Glenn Thompson (R-Pa.), Mac Thornberry (R-Texas), Fred Upton (R-Mich.), and Ted Yoho (R-Fla.). A summary of key provisions of the AG and Legal Workforce Act can be found HERE. Bill text can be found HERE.
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives approved his legislation, H.R. 5504, to designate the U.S. Postal Service facility at 4801 West Van Giesen Street in West Richland, Washington as the “Sergeant Dietrich Schmieman Post Office.” Rep. Newhouse introduced H.R. 5504 with the support of the entire Washington delegation to honor the life and service of U.S. Marine Sergeant Dietrich Schmieman of Richland, who was serving in the 2nd Raider Battalion at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina when he was tragically killed in a cargo plane crash in Mississippi on July 10, 2017. Today, the House of Representatives approved H.R. 5504 by a voice vote. The legislation now heads to the Senate for approval. “Sergeant Schmieman and his fellow service members gave the ultimate sacrifice, and I hope to honor their memory with this legislation,” said Rep. Newhouse. “We recently observed the one-year anniversary of the devastating plane crash, and I know the designation of this Post Office will mean a lot to Dietrich’s family and our community – serving as a local memorial and reminder of the courageous young man whose life and service deserve this honor. I urge the Senate to act quickly on this legislation.” Watch Rep. Newhouse speak in support of his legislation to honor Sgt. Dietrich Schmieman Transcript: I rise today to speak in support of legislation that will commemorate the life and service of a young man from Central Washington who died serving his country, just over a year ago on July 10, 2017. Marine Sergeant Dietrich Schmieman grew up in Richland, Washington with his parents, Eric and Susan, and his two brothers, Aaron and Hans. He attended Christ the King Catholic School, Hanford High School, and Columbia Basin College, where he met friends who would remain close to him throughout his entire life. In 2010, with a world of opportunity ahead of him, he chose to dedicate his life to service and enlist in the United States Marine Corps. It was his goal to serve within Special Operations Command. Throughout his service, he received 14 awards and decorations, including several Achievement Medals, Good Conduct Medals, and the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal. He had completed two overseas deployments serving our nation during Operation Enduring Freedom. He achieved his goal, honorable serving as a Critical Skills Operator in the U.S. Marine Corps 2nd Raider Battalion at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, when he was tragically killed in a KC-130 plane crash in Mississippi on July 10, 2017. My legislation would designate the U.S. Postal Service facility at 4801 West Van Giesen Street in West Richland, Washington as the “Sergeant Dietrich Schmieman Post Office Building.” Dietrich and his fellow service members gave the ultimate sacrifice, and I hope to honor his memory – as well as the memory of the 15 other men and women killed in the crash – with this dedication to their service. Dietrich’s strong ties to his family, friends, and hometown continue to be evident. An avid skydiver, Dietrich’s death inspired his parents, childhood friends, and fellow Marines to complete a memorial skydive over Central Washington. He had a tattoo symbolizing his love of the Pacific Northwest and requested that his ashes be spread on Mt. Rainier, where his Marine brothers-in-arms will hike this August in his honor. We recently observed the one-year anniversary of the devastating plane crash, and I know that the designation of this Post Office will mean a lot to Dietrich’s family and to our community – serving as a local memorial and reminder of the sacrifice he and his fellow service members gave to preserve the freedoms that are the cornerstone of our nation. I encourage my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation to name this building, which will be visited often by friends and family, after a courageous young man whose life and service deserve this honor.
07.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on President Trump’s pardon of Dwight and Steven Hammond: “I applaud President Trump for pardoning Dwight and Steven Hammond,” said Rep Newhouse. “There are few incidences that occur in our nation that better depict just how out of touch and unresponsive our federal government is to our citizens than the sentencing of Dwight and Steve Hammond from Eastern Oregon. After the Hammonds started a backfire to protect their cattle grazing land and assist the greater wildfire control effort, the Hammonds were prosecuted by the Department of Justice for arson under the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act. After a federal judge only sentenced the Hammonds to three months, stating anything longer would be a ‘shock to the conscience,’ aloof federal prosecutors appealed and succeeded in attaining a five year prison sentence. I support President Trump’s decision to pardon the Hammonds, whose struggles represent many rural communities’ valid frustrations with the federal government’s unresponsiveness, callousness, and poor land management tendencies.”
07.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) release of guidance on changes made to farm labor housing eligibility. The Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018 included Rep. Newhouse’s amendment that directed these changes. The amendment extends the Farm Labor Housing tenant eligibility to agricultural workers legally admitted to the United States and authorized to work in agriculture. Due to this rule change, domestic farm laborers legally admitted into the country under an H-2A work visa are now eligible for this state-inspected housing. “Labor scarcity is a growing problem for agriculture producers nationwide, and improving access to legal guest workers is a top priority for farmers in Central Washington,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I applaud USDA’s announcement that it is implementing my legislation to allow housing to be used for both domestic and legally-admitted temporary workers.” Background: Newhouse Farm Labor Housing Amendment: Section 514 loans are provided to buy, build, improve, and repair housing for farm laborers. Rep. Newhouse’s amendment would allow section 514 housing to be used for both domestic and H-2A workers in situations where housing units are currently unoccupied or underutilized. In March of 2018, Labor Secretary Alexander Acosta, Homeland Security Secretary Kjerstjen Nielsen, Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue, and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced new coordination to streamline and improve the H-2A temporary agricultural visa program, which is administered by the Departments of State, Agriculture, Labor, and Homeland Security. USDA has released internal guidance for implementing this new rule. The application period is now open, with a deadline of August 27, 2018.
07.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on President Trump’s nomination of Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court: “President Trump’s decision to nominate Brett Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court shows the high importance of interpreting the Constitution as the Founders intended when they wrote it,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I urge the Senate to move quickly on confirmation of the next Justice of the Supreme Court.”
07.06.2018	SUNNYSIDE, WA – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after touring the Southern U.S. border near McAllen, Texas and briefings by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) on Friday, June 29th and Saturday, June 30th: “My tour of the Southern border to learn more about how federal agencies enforce our nation’s immigration laws and the challenges they face every day was eye-opening,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I heard compelling stories about how hard federal officers work to enforce the law for the protection of the American people as well as the well-being of immigrants. Not only do these enforcement professionals need more technology, infrastructure, and personnel, but they need Congress to update our broken immigration system, which currently encourages illegal immigration. A whole-of-government approach is required to address every aspect of the crisis on our Southern border: from working with countries from which migrants leave to increasing border security to humane enforcement of the laws. After my tour, I am as determined as ever that border security and immigration reform must go hand-in-hand, which requires both sides of the debate to come to a legislative compromise.” Click here to view photos from Rep. Newhouse’s tour of the U.S. Southern border.
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke announced Washington state local governments are receiving a total of $29 million under the 2018 Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, demonstrating the Administration’s commitment to local communities. This is the largest amount ever allocated in the program’s 40-year history. Click here to read the letter from Secretary Zinke to Rep. Newhouse announcing PILT payments to Washington. “PILT is a vital source of funding for services in rural communities in Central Washington with nontaxable federal lands,” said Rep. Newhouse. “PILT funds support public safety, education, and other local government responsibilities that residents rely on, and without action, these communities would face budget shortfalls.” “Local communities contribute significantly to our nation's economy, food and energy supply, and help define the character of our diverse and beautiful country,” said Secretary Zinke. “These investments often serve as a lifeline for local communities as they juggle planning and paying for basic services like public safety, fire-fighting, social services and transportation.” More information on PILT funding by state is available at www.doi.gov/pilt.
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House Appropriations Committee marked up the 2019 Agriculture Appropriations bill. The legislation funds important agricultural and food programs and services, including food and medical product safety, animal and plant health programs, rural development and farm services, agricultural trade, financial marketplace oversight, and nutrition programs. The legislation passed by the committee includes Rep. Newhouse’s amendment to improve the nation’s H-2A legal agriculture labor program and Rep. Newhouse’s and Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr.’s (D-GA) amendment to protect the confidential commercial data in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). Both of Rep. Newhouse’s amendments were approved by bipartisan voice votes. “During my recent roundtables in Central Washington, one of the biggest concerns I heard from farmers was how inefficiently the current H-2A program operates for their businesses, which rely on consistent and reliable labor,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Currently, if a farmer petitions for workers, he or she must send multiple applications to multiple different agencies, often on paper, to complete the application process. I am pleased that my amendment was adopted to encourage streamlining of government and providing better customer service by directing the appropriate federal agencies to move forward on an online portal to process H-2A applications. I also appreciate that the committee included my amendment with Rep. Bishop to ensure that SNAP data continues to be proprietary and ensures that competition in the marketplace for food remains robust, particularly for independent grocers in low-income urban and rural communities.” Click here to read Rep. Newhouse’s H-2A amendment. Click here to read Rep. Newhouse’s and Rep. Bishop’s SNAP amendment. Background: Hops Research – The Committee included language recognizing that the U.S. hops industry has experienced unprecedented expansion due to the brewing industry’s economic growth over the past decade. To sustain this growth, new varieties of hops are needed to prevent disease and expand production throughout the country. The Committee encourages Agriculture Research Service’s (ARS) continued efforts on hops research. Potato Research – The Committee included language supporting research efforts to combat crop-threatening pest and disease pressures, including the potato cyst nematode. The Committee also recognizes the importance of research initiatives to identify and improve desired traits for new potato varieties and directs the Department to continue working with universities, industry and potato growers on these project. Potato Collaborative Research – The Committee included language encouraging ARS to continue to cooperate with the potato industry in conducting competitive research that responds directly to priorities identified and verified by the potato industry and engages both ARS, universities and industry researchers in the research effort. Small Grain Genomics – The Committee included language supporting research on small grain genomics to address national genomic and breeding needs for U.S. crops to keep small grains and feed as viable crops and continue their substantial contributions to the agricultural economy.
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House voted on H.R. 6136, the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act: “Americans deserve secure borders and a workable immigration system, and our consciences demand addressing the uncertainty facing DACA beneficiaries,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I cosponsored H.R. 6136 and voted in favor today because this legislation presented the best opportunity to make substantive improvements to our broken immigration system and address the situation facing families at the Southern border. “The unwillingness of partisans on both sides to come together to support legislation the President endorsed and agreed to sign into law is one of the most disheartening aspects of serving in the People’s House. I am bitterly disappointed that a minority of Republicans and all Democrats voted against securing our Southern border as well as a legislative solution for DACA beneficiaries. “The compromise legislation was endorsed by President Trump because it meets the four pillars of his requirements to be signed into law. The political posturing of some of my colleagues to refuse to lift a finger to address our immigration crisis and then move the goal post at the eleventh hour to oppose any reasonable compromise on this issue is a roadblock that prevents progress. “Those of us who are working for a long-term solution must not stop advocating for legislation that can be signed into law to secure our borders, keep our country safe, and give certainty to DACA beneficiaries who were brought here through no fault of their own. “Additionally, the House has yet to address the crisis facing agriculture producers who cannot find enough workers, and I will not stop advocating for improvements to create a reliable legal guest-worker system. If our nation’s farmers are to continue providing food for America and the world, it is incumbent on Congress to act to address labor needs. I thank the Speaker for committing to hold a vote on this matter in July.”
06.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) released the following statements after the House of Representatives voted 288-116 to pass H.R. 2083, the Endangered Salmon and Fisheries Predation Prevention Act, bipartisan legislation Rep. Newhouse cosponsored aimed at improving the survival of endangered salmon, steelhead and other native fish species in the Columbia River system. “Billions of taxpayer dollars have been spent to improve salmon survival rates on the Columbia River, only to see rising predation from sea lions,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This legislation demonstrates a targeted approach and a bipartisan, concerted effort over many years to come to a consensus on how to stop the severe problem of sea lion predation. I was pleased to work with my colleagues on this commonsense, bipartisan effort to mitigate this threat to salmon and steelhead populations. I will continue to advocate for sound-science decision-making for our river system.” “On behalf of our salmon and steelhead runs literally fighting for survival against the gauntlet of overpopulated, over-engorged sea lions, today’s passage of my bipartisan bill will help restore balance to our Columbia River ecosystem,” said Rep. Herrera Beutler. “It’s time we gave our state and tribal managers the tools they need to humanely manage the most problematic of the sea lions, and in turn, save some of the Pacific Northwest’s most important resources – endangered salmon. I’m grateful for Representative Newhouse’s efforts to help advance this legislation that recognizes the urgency of this issue, and for my colleagues voting today to preserve our native fish species for generations to come.” WATCH NEWHOUSE SPEAK IN SUPPORT OF SALMON RECOVERY LEGISLATION Background: Reps. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) and Kurt Schrader (D-OR) introduced H.R. 2083 to improve the survival of salmon and steelhead in the Columbia River. The legislation provides state and tribal fish managers with the means to remove limited numbers of California and Stellar sea lions from specific areas where they are posing the most harm to endangered native fish runs.
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House of Representatives’ voted to pass H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act, commonly referred to as “the Farm Bill.” “The Farm Bill provides much-needed certainty for farmers and ranchers, who continue to struggle with the lowest farm income in decades and the damaging consequences of retaliatory tariffs,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The Farm Bill supports important agriculture research, reauthorizes market access, and bolsters the farm safety net. It improves the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) through instituting work and training requirements for able-bodied adults without any cuts in services. The SNAP and Education & Training (E&T) provisions also invest savings to increase resources for E&T programs like Washington’s highly successful Basic Food Employment & Training (BFET) program. I am also pleased that this Farm Bill repeals the Waters of the U.S. rule (WOTUS), which was simply a regulatory power grab. As we enter the dry summer months and face the threat of wildfires, this legislation is important to promote forest health through better management.” Click here for a summary of the legislation.
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after voting no on H.R. 4760, the Securing America's Future Act. “Our immigration system is broken, and we need reforms to secure our border, keep families together, and fix DACA,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I support strengthening border security, providing a long-term solution for DACA, closing immigration enforcement loopholes, and ending the visa lottery program – all of which are the President’s requirements to sign immigration reform legislation into law. H.R. 4760 did not fully address these priorities. However, in the coming days, the House will be considering legislation I cosponsored, H.R. 6136, the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act, which does include these provisions and is the best opportunity we have to achieve real immigration reform. While H.R. 4760 did contain agricultural labor provisions I support, other provisions of the legislation would have made the ag-labor crisis facing farmers even worse. I commend the Speaker and the Majority Leader for committing to me personally to bring forward language that addresses agriculture’s labor needs, and I am pleased that language will now be included in H.R. 6136. Agriculture is a labor-intensive industry, and there remains a severe shortage of workers. Our farmers and ranchers must have access to a legal and reliable workforce in order to provide the world with a safe and abundant supply of food.” The House began consideration of H.R. 6136 today, and Rep. Newhouse participated in debate on the floor. Rep. Newhouse’s remarks were delivered before the agreement to include reforms for agriculture in H.R. 6136. WATCH NEWHOUSE’S SPEECH SUPPORTING H.R. 6136.
06.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement regarding continuing legislative negotiations on behalf of beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “I spoke with Speaker Ryan today, who assured me that our Conference will vote, as early as next week, on an immigration bill that will give certainty to DACA beneficiaries and secure our border,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Given this significant progress, I will not sign the discharge petition today. The DACA beneficiaries with whom I have spoken in Central Washington are not asking for a symbolic vote on measures that have no chance at becoming law. For me, reaching a long-term solution is vital for DACA beneficiaries. These DACA beneficiaries have asked me for certainty, and I strongly believe this may be the best legislative vehicle that can receive *215 House votes, 60 votes in the Senate, and the President’s signature into law. “I also commend the Speaker and the Majority Leader for committing to me personally to bring forward a separate immigration bill that addresses agriculture’s labor needs before the August district work period. Agriculture is a labor-intensive industry and there remains a shortage of domestic labor. Our farmers and ranchers must have access to a legal and reliable workforce in order to provide the world with a safe and abundant supply of food. “The discharge petition has succeeded in pushing this vital matter for so many young people to the forefront. I also remind my colleagues, that while today’s deadline for a vote on June 25th has passed, the discharge still has time to gain signatures for a vote on July 23rd. I will continue to keep my options open on what is the best course of action. In the meantime, I support ongoing efforts to find a solution that can become law.” *Due to current vacancies.
06.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Dan Newhouse (WA-04) joined Chairman of the House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, Dave Reichert (WA-08), and a bipartisan group of Members of Congress from Washington State urging the United States Trade Representative (USTR), Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, to address retaliation by our trading partners in response to the Administration’s placement of tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum. The letter highlights the negative impact these retaliatory actions will have on Washington’s economy and asks Ambassador Lighthizer to negotiate a solution that shields Washington’s exporters. Members of Congress also signing the letter include Senator Patty Murray, Senator Maria Cantwell, Representative Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), Rep. Jamie Herrera Beutler (WA-03), Rep. Dan Newhouse (WA-04), Rep. Cathy McMorris Rogers (WA-05), Rep. Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09), and Rep. Denny Heck (WA-10). “As representatives of Washington State, we are hearing increasing concerns from our constituents about the impact of retaliatory actions by our trading partners on Washington communities stemming from the imposition of the Section 232 tariffs on steel and aluminum,” the members wrote. “The impact of these retaliatory actions on Washington’s thriving agricultural industry would not only significantly affect the agricultural industry, but also workers, families, and small businesses throughout the state. We urge the Administration to make it a priority to negotiate a solution that shields our specialty crop growers from retaliatory actions in the form of tariffs or other barriers to trade. With cherry harvest beginning in the Pacific Northwest, time is of the essence for our growers.” To see the letter sent to Ambassador Lighthizer, CLICK HERE. The text of the letter can also be found below. The Honorable Robert Lighthizer United States Trade Representative Office of the U.S. Trade Representative 600 17th St, NW Washington, DC 20508 Dear Ambassador Lighthizer, As representatives of Washington State, we are hearing increasing concerns from our constituents about the impact of retaliatory actions by our trading partners on Washington communities stemming from the imposition of the Section 232 tariffs on steel and aluminum. The impact of these retaliatory actions on Washington’s thriving agricultural industry would not only significantly affect the agricultural industry, but also workers, families, and small businesses throughout the state. We urge the Administration to make it a priority to negotiate a solution that shields our specialty crop growers from retaliatory actions in the form of tariffs or other barriers to trade. With cherry harvest beginning in the Pacific Northwest, time is of the essence for our growers. On April 2nd, China responded to the Section 232 tariffs with a 15 percent tariff on a number of items, including apples, pears, cherries, and wine. For Pacific Northwest cherries, China is the number one export destination, with more than ten percent of last year’s crop valued at approximately $130 million having been shipped to China. Last season, China was the fifth largest market for apples, worth approximately $45-50 million, and it continues to be an important market for pears as well. If these tariffs remain in place, the financial impact to Washington’s growers will be very harmful, especially for cherries as the price would be depressed across the board as shippers seek alternative markets for such significant volume. This challenge is growing as additional trading partners take actions to restrict access to export markets, leaving our exporters with fewer markets for their high-quality agricultural products. On May 28th, India notified the World Trade Organization that it plans before June 21st to raise its tariff on apples from the already very high level of 50 percent to 80 percent. India describes this increased tariff as retaliation for the U.S. Section 232 tariffs on aluminum and steel. In our view, India, like China and other countries, is abusing WTO rules by unilaterally retaliating in this way without authorization, and we urge you to confront such abuses. As the second largest market-to-date this season, an eighty percent tariff on apples entering India would have a grave impact on Washington’s growers. For this season, more than 7.7 million boxes – valued at more than $118.3 million – have been shipped to India. We understand that around one million cartons of apples are currently on container ships en route to India. It is worth noting that this action will have a disproportionately high impact on the growers of Red Delicious – which has composed nearly 90 percent of Washington’s apple exports to India this season. India is the number one market for Washington’s Red Delicious apples this season. With so much at stake, we urge the Administration to make it a priority to prevent this additional thirty percent tariff from going into effect. On June 5th, in response to the Administration’s decision to impose steel and aluminum tariffs on several key allies, including Mexico, Mexico announced it will impose tariffs on a range of U.S. agricultural products, including potatoes and apples. Last year, Washington State potato growers exported over $37 million in frozen potatoes to Mexico. And as the top export destination for apples, valued at approximately $215 million last season, Mexico is currently the second largest market for Washington’s Red Delicious apples. In fact, this season, Washington’s apple growers have shipped over 10 million cartons of apples to Mexico, making up 27 percent of apple exports. As our trading partners take steps to restrict their markets to American exports, we urge the Administration to address these retaliatory actions that are harming our communities, constituencies, and local economies. Sincerely,
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) voted in favor of House passage of H.R. 5895, the Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act. Rep. Newhouse spoke in support of legislation that approves funding levels above the administration’s request for Hanford cleanup, as well as a strong commitment to support the scientific research at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (see full remarks here). Rep. Newhouse previously announced that this legislation includes his language to stop the forced spill order at lower Snake and Columbia River dams. The legislation approved by the House also includes Rep. Newhouse’s amendment to prevent the privatizing of the Bonneville Power Administration, which passed the full House unanimously. WATCH: Newhouse Offers Amendment to Prevent Bonneville Power Administration Privatization Transcript: I rise today to offer an amendment on a critical matter for the Bonneville Power Administration, and our nation’s other Power Marketing Administrations, or the PMA’s, including Southwestern Power Administration and the Western Area Power Administration, as well as the Tennessee Valley Authority, or the TVA. The President’s Fiscal Year 2019 Budget Request released earlier this year included a misguided proposal to sell the transmission assets of these entities. It is unfortunate this proposal was offered once again, as the matter was met with resounding rejection by Congress last year when it was offered in the Fiscal Year 2018 budget request. The sale of these assets would result in the federal government abandoning a successful and efficient solution for providing affordable power to rural, urban, and tribal communities across the country. This one-time federal debt reduction proposal would create energy production and delivery issues for my constituents, as costs would inevitably rise. Mr. Chairman, this ill-advised proposal is once again a federal attempt to fix something that is not broken. I fully support efforts to improve energy infrastructure across the nation. However, I do not believe that this goal should come at the expense of existing infrastructure—infrastructure that successfully fills a need where market-based pricing would not be sustainable. My constituents—especially in rural communities—depend on the Bonneville Power Administration to provide stable and affordable electricity service. Divesting BPA’s assets would create needless uncertainty for regional energy markets and ratepayers in Central Washington. In a climate where BPA continues to face unnecessary challenges—whether it’s from the imprudent federal proposal to move to market-based rates, or to the incessant use of litigation brought forward by radical environmentalists for the past three decades—I offer this amendment which simply prohibits any funds from being used to sell the transmission assets of the three PMAs and the TVA. Mr. Chairman, I come before the House today as a champion for the Bonneville Power Administration, an advocate for public power, and a steadfast representative for ratepayers across central Washington state, the greater Pacific Northwest, and the entire nation. I encourage the Administration to listen to this resounding, bipartisan message that I bring along with my colleagues today: We reject this proposal and prohibit the divestment of the assets, and with that Mr. Chairman I reserve the balance of my time. Background: H.R. 5895 combines three House Appropriations bills, including the Energy and Water Appropriations bill, which provides $44.7 billion for Fiscal Year 2019 and provides funding for the Army Corp of Engineers, Department of Energy, and our nation’s nuclear weapons security programs. It also includes $15.3 billion for DOE’s nuclear weapons security programs, an increase of $644 million over FY18, and includes $7.28 billion for the Army Corps of Engineers, $451 million over FY18, for our nation’s ports, waterways, and flood protection infrastructure. The bill also repeals the Waters of the United States rule, and includes several provisions important to the 4th District on Hanford, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Yucca Mountain, and the Federal Columbia River Power System. This package also includes the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill, which provides $96.9 billion for FY19 to provide the care and support for our veterans and their families while also strengthening oversight and accountability at the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs. Finally, it includes the Legislative Branch Appropriations bills, which provides $3.8 billion for the House of Representatives, Capitol Police, the Library of Congress, and support agencies of Congress. Hanford Cleanup FY2019 by the Numbers (Millions) DOE Office of Environmental Management FY2019 House Funding Level: $5,759,220 President’s FY2019 Request: $5,630,217 House Bill vs. President’s request: +$129,003 Final FY2018 Appropriated Amount: $5,988,048 Richland Operations Office (RL) FY2019 House Funding Level: $863,192 President’s FY2019 Request: $658,171 House Bill vs. President’s request: +$205,021 Final FY2018 Appropriated Amount: $863,192 Office of River Protection (ORP) FY2019 House Funding Level: $1,480,053 President’s FY2019 Request: $1,438,513 House Bill vs. President’s request: +$41,540 Final FY2018 Appropriated Amount: $1,560,000 Click here for more information.
06.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 3, the Spending Cuts to Expired and Unnecessary Programs Act. H.R. 3 would rescind $15 billion in federal spending that is no longer needed for its intended purposes, or that has been sitting unused within agencies for years. H.R. 3 would also rescind funding that agencies cannot spend, or have no plans to spend, to return it to the Federal Treasury. “Congress must align government spending – which is all taxpayers’ money – with our promises to taxpayers,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Steadying the fiscal ship of state will require a continuous effort to cut wasteful spending. Rescinding unspent funds is an important step to rein in spending, especially when our national debt exceeds $21 trillion.” H.R. 3 would rescind funding that is no longer needed for its intended purposes, or that has been sitting unused within agencies for years. The bill would rescind funding from a Railroad Retirement Board program that ended in 2012. It would also rescind money from the Department of Energy’s loan program for Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing, which has not made a loan since 2011. Click here for more information.
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House Committee on Appropriations approved the Fiscal Year 2019 Department of Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. This legislation provides annual funding for the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the U.S. Forest Service, the Indian Health Service, and various independent and related agencies. The Committee adopted Rep. Newhouse’s amendment to deny funding for the U.S. Department of Interior proposal to transport grizzly bears to the North Cascades. “I have heard my constituents loud and clear on their opposition to transporting grizzly bears to the North Cascades, and the rest of the federal government should take note of local communities’ voices as well,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I am pleased that my amendment to deny funding to a proposal to transport grizzlies was adopted by the Committee and included in the legislation approved today. This legislation includes important priorities for rural Central Washington that encompass federal delisting of the gray wolf, wildfire prevention and mitigation, and preserving the North Cascades Smokejumper Base in Winthrop.” Rep. Newhouse’s measures that are priorities for Central Washington include provisions for the North Cascades Smokejumper Base, gray wolf delisting, the Wolf-Livestock Loss Demonstration Program, and grazing management. The legislation includes the following measures and report language: Gray Wolves - Bill Language: SEC. 117. (a) Not later than the end of fiscal year 2019, and except as provided in subsection (b), the Secretary of the Interior shall issue a rule to remove the gray wolf (Canis lupus) in each of the 48 contiguous States of the United States and the District of Columbia from the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife in section 17.11 of title 50, Code of Federal Regulations, without regard to any other provision of statute or regulation that applies to issuance of such rule. (b) Such issuance (including this section)— (1) shall not be subject to judicial review; and (2) shall not affect the inclusion of the sub species classified as the Mexican gray wolf (Canis lupus baileyi) of the species gray wolf (Canis lupus) in such list. North Cascades Smokejumper Base - Report Language: The Committee is aware the North Cascades Smokejumper Base in Winthrop, Washington, needs facility upgrades, improvements, and renovations to meet Federal Aviation Administration compliance standards and requirements and understands the Service has completed a Preliminary Project Analysis that recommends maintaining the base. The Committee urges the Service to devote the necessary resources to ensure the base can maintain operational excellence. Bighorn Sheep Research - Report Language: The Service is urged to collaborate with the Bureau of Land Management and the Agricultural Research Service on research involving the risk of disease transmission between domestic and bighorn sheep. (Same language for BLM w/USFS). Grazing Management - Report Language: The Committee encourages the Service to improve its monitoring of grazing permits in allotments where riparian streamside health is a concern for listed or threatened species. The Committee also requests that each Forest Service region increase transparency and reporting on how their monitoring resources are used on the ground to satisfy monitoring requirements or for other purposes. Wildland Firefighting and Prevention – In total, the bill funds wildland firefighting and prevention programs at $3.9 billion, fully funding the 10-year average for wildland fire suppression costs for both the Department of the Interior and the Forest Service, and providing robust additional funding – $500 million– for Forest Service suppression operations. The legislation also includes $655 million for hazardous fuels management, which is $30 million above the fiscal year 2018 level. Federal Payments to Local Communities – The bill provides $500 million for “Payments In Lieu of Taxes” (PILT), $35 million above the budget request. PILT provides funds for local governments in 49 states to help offset losses in property taxes due to nontaxable federal lands within their counties. Without congressional action, many rural communities would face huge budget shortfalls impacting public safety, education, and other local government responsibilities.
05.25.2018	YAKIMA – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) recognized a West Valley High School senior, Alexander Carlson, with a Congressional Award Bronze Medal. The ceremony took place at West Valley High School. The Congressional Award is the highest award for youth presented by the United States Congress. “I was honored to present the Congressional Award Bronze Medal to Alexander Carlson,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I hope this award will serve as a reminder of the infinite possibilities ahead of Alexander as he continues to pursue ways to better himself and his community. I also commend the faculty and staff of West Valley High School for encouraging students to achieve their goals and become strong leaders.” Congressional Award The Congressional Award is the United States Congress’ award for young Americans. The Foundation remains Congress’ only charity. The program is non-partisan, voluntary, and non-competitive. Young people may register when they turn 13 1/2 years old and must complete their activities by their 24th birthday. Today’s recipient of the Congressional Award Bronze Medal, Alexander Carlson of West Valley High School, achieved great progress in all four areas: Voluntary Public Service: Alexander volunteered with both his Boy Scouts troop, as well as at the Union Gospel Mission. Personal Development: Alexander attended seminary and church in order to prepare for his upcoming mission. Physical Fitness: Alexander trained in cross country and practiced drills to achieve his physical fitness goal of improving his running times. Exploration/Expedition: Alexander organized a camping trip for his Boy Scouts troop, where he learned skills in leadership and had the opportunity to try snowshoeing for the first time.
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 5515, National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which passed the House in a bipartisan vote of 351-66. The legislation authorizes funding for national defense and national security programs of the Department of Energy, including offices at Hanford, and includes Rep. Newhouse’s amendment to reauthorize the Office of River Protection (ORP) in Richland through 2024. “I am pleased that my amendment to reauthorize the Office of River Protection through 2024 was included to keep federal cleanup efforts stable by supporting ORP’s mission to focus on tank waste,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Not only does this legislation fulfill Congress’ constitutional responsibility to provide for the common defense, but it also raises our troops’ pay and fulfills the federal government’s obligation to clean up defense nuclear waste at Hanford.” The House-passed NDAA authorizes funding at $708,171,000 for the Richland Operations Office (RL), an increase from the President’s Budget Request of $658,171,000, and $1,438,513,000 for the Office of River Protection (ORP). The FY19 NDAA authorizes a total of $708.1 billion in discretionary funding, including $639.1 billion in base budget and $69 billion in Overseas Contingency Operations, giving U.S. Secretary of Defense James Mattis the tools he needs to restore military readiness. The legislation fully funds a 2.6% pay raise for the troops – the highest increase in nine years. Click here for a summary on the 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA).
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after Labor Secretary Alexander Acosta, Homeland Security Secretary Kjerstjen Nielsen, Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue, and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced new coordination to streamline and improve the H-2A temporary agricultural visa program, which is administered by the Departments of State, Agriculture, Labor, and Homeland Security. “The Trump administration’s commitment to act on sorely-needed improvements to the guest worker visa program is welcome news to our nation’s farmers and agriculture producers, who are struggling with scarce labor,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The inability of farmers to find enough employees in time for harvest means lost revenue and decreased farm income. Improving the H-2A program is part of the solution to level the playing field for small farm operations who have the most difficulty complying with the bureaucratic H-2A process. Today’s announcement shows that the Trump administration has farmers’ backs, and I look forward to working hand-in-hand with my colleagues in Congress and the administration to address concerns I hear on a daily basis from Central Washington farmers, including pushing legislative solutions.” Last week, Rep. Newhouse’s amendment to streamline the H-2A process was included in the FY 2019 House Agriculture Appropriations bill approved by the House Appropriations Committee, which mirrors the efforts announced today.
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives from Washington state Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03), Dan Newhouse (WA-04), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued a joint statement following the U.S. Department of Energy’s announcement that they will not sell off Bonneville Power Administration’s (BPA) assets. “On behalf of the 12 million residents and businesses in the Pacific Northwest who rely on the clean, affordable hydropower generated from BPA, we applaud the Administration for responding to our concerns over the potential sale of BPA’s transmission assets and making the formal decision to abandon such plans. “We have voiced our strong opposition to this proposal and are grateful to Secretary Perry for continuing to study the impact a sell-off would have on our region and recognizing BPA’s unique and vital role in maintaining economic vitality for our Northwest communities. It’s a big relief to know that this harmful proposal will not be pursued.” Last year, fifteen Pacific Northwest Members of Congress sent a letter to Secretary Perry and Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney expressing their concern with a proposal in the President’s budget to sell off BPA’s assets.
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) applauded the start of formal renegotiations of the Columbia River Treaty (CRT) to take place May 29th and 30th in Washington, D.C. “These vital negotiations have been long overdue, and I applaud the Trump Administration for getting the ball rolling on renegotiating this treaty that has a tremendous impact on our way of life in the Pacific Northwest,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The Canadian Entitlement especially must be updated so that the renegotiated management of the Columbia River proves to be an equitable arrangement that benefits both countries. I look forward to working with the administration throughout this process.” Rep. Newhouse joined colleagues in a bipartisan request urging President Trump to commence negotiations with Canada on the CRT as soon as possible. Background: Updating the Columbia River Treaty, which has not been revised since it was ratified in 1964, will allow the U.S. and Canada to find solutions for management of the river that could provide new opportunities for cooperation on clean energy solutions, flood control, and economic growth in the Pacific Northwest region. In 2016, Rep. Newhouse and Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-OR) joined U.S. House and Senate colleagues to call on the U.S. State Department under President Obama to finalize its negotiating parameters and to press Canada to appoint a lead negotiator. Both actions are required for formal discussions to begin. Full text of the letter can be found here.
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) announced that six students across Central Washington have received appointments to attend U.S. service academies. The appointments followed Rep. Newhouse’s nominations for each appointee. The honor of attending a service academy comes with the obligation and commitment to serve in the military for a minimum of five years upon graduation. “I applaud the decision of these young people, who have been selected for their demonstrated leadership and excellent academic performance, to attend our nation’s finest military academies,” said Rep. Newhouse. “They truly represent the best of Central Washington, and I wish them well as they embark on the path not only of personal success, but service to our nation.” U.S. Military Academy at West Point Appointments Margaret Ballew of Selah Margaret is a senior of Selah High School and the daughter of Donald and Kristin Ballew. Curtis Clute of Prosser Curtis is a senior of Prosser Senior High School and the son of Mitchell Clute and Susanna Pennington. Daniela Mendoza of West Richland Daniela is a senior of Hanford High School and the daughter of Rodolfo Mendoza and Marisela Linares-Mendoza. Clayton Porcaro of Richland Clayton is a graduate of Hanford High School and the son of Paul and Melissa Porcaro. U.S. Air Force Academy Appointment Luke Gorham of Kennewick Luke is a homeschooled high school senior and the son of Aaron and Karen Gorham. U.S. Naval Academy Appointment Adam Weissenfels of Richland Adam is a senior of Richland High School and the son of Bob and Kelly Wiessenfels. Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. For more information or to obtain an application packet for next year’s nominations, click here or contact Rep. Newhouse’s Tri-Cities office at 3100 George Washington Way #135 Richland, (509) 713-7374.
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House of Representatives’ vote on H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act, commonly referred to as “the Farm Bill.” “I am disappointed that House Democrats and some Republicans joined together to vote against farmers,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Congress must act to strengthen the future of American farmers who are struggling with the lowest farm income in more than a decade. Before voting in favor of the Farm Bill, I traveled up and down Central Washington to speak with local farmers, ranchers, and producers, and this legislation would have gone a long way to address the concerns raised by my constituents. As a farmer myself, I understand how important support for agriculture research and strengthening market access are for our agriculture community. This legislation would have strengthened the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program. From repealing the burdensome Waters of the U.S. rule (WOTUS) to forest health reforms to reauthorizing programs that provide much-needed stability for farmers and ensure a stable food supply, Congress must fulfill our commitment to farmers and pass a Farm Bill.”
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) was honored on Monday at the Greater Yakima Chamber of Commerce’s “State of the City” Luncheon in Yakima, when he was presented with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce “Spirit of Enterprise Award” for his support of pro-growth, pro-jobs policies in Congress. “A thriving economy means more jobs and rising opportunity for families in Central Washington,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I am grateful for this award, which represents my support for pro-growth, pro-jobs enterprises. It is an honor to receive this recognition, and I will continue to support policies – from simplifying the tax code to promoting our agricultural economy – that create jobs and foster American entrepreneurship.” “The Greater Yakima Chamber of Commerce is extremely proud of the representation that Congressman Newhouse has shown for our local economy and business community,” said Verlynn Best, President and CEO of the Greater Yakima Chamber of Commerce. “We're pleased to host the U.S. Chamber as they present the ‘Spirit of Enterprise Award’ for all of his support to grow the Yakima Valley and region.” The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation. This is the 30th year that the U.S. Chamber has formally honored the accomplishments of this select group of members of Congress, and the third time that Rep. Newhouse has received the award. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business federation representing the interests of more than 3 million businesses of all sizes, sectors, and regions, as well as state and local chambers and industry associations.
05.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on the House Committee on Natural Resources’ approval in a markup of legislation he introduced, H.R. 4419, the Bureau of Reclamation and Bureau of Indian Affairs Water Project Streamlining Act. Rep. Newhouse’s legislation would streamline the Bureau of Reclamation’s and Bureau of Indian Affairs’ environmental planning and study process for new water projects and authorize the next phase of the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan. “I am grateful to Chairman Bishop and my colleagues on the House Natural Resources Committee for approving my legislation on a bipartisan basis to streamline Bureau of Reclamation and Indian Affairs’ water projects and authorize the next phase of the Yakima Basin Project,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The Yakima Basin Plan not only provides vital water resources for the current and future growth of the area’s economy, but it is also a national model for such projects. Gaining the support of a diverse group of stakeholders that includes the agriculture community, conservationists, and residents is never easy, but the Yakima Basin Plan continues to do just that. Approval in committee is a crucial step, and I will continue to work with House leadership on a vote in the full House.” “The National Water Resources Association and water users throughout the West appreciate Chairman Bishop’s and Congressman Newhouse’s efforts to enhance our nation’s water infrastructure,” said Ron Thompson, President, National Water Resources Association. “By improving the regulatory process associated with water infrastructure development, they will help ensure that future generations have access to a safe, affordable, and reliable water supply.” “If we don’t find a way to restore water supply reliability for Western irrigated agriculture through a combination of new infrastructure and other supply enhancement efforts, our country’s ability to feed and clothe itself and the world will be jeopardized,” said Dan Keppen, Executive Director, Family Farm Alliance. “This bill takes an important step towards addressing potential barriers to allowing the federal government to again be a partner with local and state entities in addressing these important water supply issues.” Click here for more information. Background: The Bureau of Reclamation and Bureau of Indian Affairs Surface Water Storage Streamlining Act requires the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) and the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) to accelerate studies and provide more accountability in the agency’s process to study the feasibility of new and or expanded surface water storage. The legislation would provide the same streamlined water project development process for BOR and BIA surface water storage projects that the “Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014” (WRRDA) gave to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps). The goal of the legislation is to reform the current cumbersome, lengthy process so that there is a mechanism to build new surface water storage projects in the West. The bill is designed to speed up BOR’s and BIA’s feasibility study process on surface water storage that “would be owned, funded, or operated” by the agency. The legislation also requires reporting and transparency requirements to provide agency justifications on why feasibility studies are not being completed in a timely manner. The bill closely resembles provisions included in WRRDA. The conference report for WRRDA, which includes nearly identical provisions for the Corps, passed both Houses in the 113th Congress (by a vote of 412-4 in the House and 91-7 in the Senate). Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project: In the 114th Congress, similar legislation authorizing the Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project Phase III (H.R. 4686) introduced by Rep. Reichert and Rep. Newhouse ran into an earmark issue in the House. This revised legislation allows authorization of the Yakima Basin project consistent with the House rules. The Yakima River Basin is one of the leading agricultural regions in Washington State and throughout the country. The orchardists, wine grape growers, and other members of the agricultural community inject approximately $3.2 billion into Washington’s economy and support countless jobs in the area. However, the demand for water in the region currently exceeds the resources available, especially during times of drought, which have hit the state especially hard in the past few years. As a result, water use has been restricted for junior water rights holders - or individuals who obtained water rights in 1905 or later – during times of shortages. With researchers predicting that drought seasons will only become more common and get worse as snowpack in the mountains continues to decline, action needs to be taken so that stakeholders in the Yakima Basin can continue operating without having to worry about whether or not they will be able to water their crops or their backyard garden. As the nation has seen with extreme water problems in California, we must be proactive and have a viable plan in place should intense drought hit Washington. After years of tough negotiations, the Yakima River Basin Plan offers a solution that will give water users more certainty, while also recognizing the concerns of conservationists and the various stakeholders in the Yakima Basin. Specifically, the Yakima River Basin Plan would: Provide greater water supply reliability for farmers and communities. Secure the water that communities need to meet current and future demand. Protect over 200,000 acres of currently unprotected forest, shrub steppe, and river habitat. Enhance habitat along the Yakima River and its tributaries. Implement water marketing and banking so that water is more easily delivered when and where needed. Build fish passage to allow salmon, steelhead, and bull trout to travel throughout the basin. Additional bill highlights: Requires future Reclamation feasibility studies to be completed with three years after the date of initiation and have a maximum federal cost of $3 million. The bill provides for a maximum seven year extension of that time and cost if the Interior Secretary provides a detailed justification to the non-federal project sponsor and the Congress. Requires the Interior Secretary to expedite the completion of any ongoing feasibility studies initiated before the date of enactment. If the Secretary determines that the project is justified in a completed report, he/she shall proceed to proceed to pre-construction planning, engineering and design of the project. Directs the Interior Secretary to develop and implement a coordinated environmental review process with Reclamation and the non-federal project sponsor as lead agencies for expedited environmental review of a project. The bill further directs the lead agencies to establish a schedule for completion of a study and lays out financial penalties to the Interior Secretary if timelines are not met. Directs the Interior Secretary to develop and submit a report to the relevant committees in Congress that identifies project report, proposed project and proposed modifications to studies and federal and non-federal cost estimates for all three. These activities would be similar to the feasibility studies listed in Section 7002 of P.L. 113-121, which authorized construction of projects by Congress. The legislation additionally authorizes the following projects: Equus Beds Division of the Wichita Project – Kansas Musselshell-Judith Rural Water System - Montana
05.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on Hanford funding levels proposed by the House Committee on Appropriations for Fiscal Year 2019 and the strong commitment made to the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. Rep. Newhouse previously announced that this legislation includes his language to stop the forced spill order at lower Snake and Columbia River dams. The legislation approved by the Committee also included a provision to prevent the privatizing of the Bonneville Power Administration. “I am pleased that the legislation approved by the Committee today provides strong support for Hanford cleanup and the mission of Pacific Northwest National Laboratory,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The legislation also provides funds to continue the license application for Yucca Mountain, which is by statute the nation’s sole nuclear repository for nuclear defense waste and spent nuclear fuel. As this bill moves to the entire House, I will continue advocating for the federal government to fulfill its obligation to the people of Central Washington to complete this cleanup job while ensuring safety for workers.” Hanford Cleanup FY2019 by the Numbers (Millions) DOE Office of Environmental Management FY2019 House Funding Level: $5,759,220 President’s FY2019 Request: $5,630,217 House Bill vs. President’s request: +$129,003 Final FY2018 Appropriated Amount: $5,988,048 Richland Operations Office (RL) FY2019 House Funding Level: $863,192 President’s FY2019 Request: $658,171 House Bill vs. President’s request: +$205,021 Final FY2018 Appropriated Amount: $863,192 Office of River Protection (ORP) FY2019 House Funding Level: $1,480,053 President’s FY2019 Request: $1,438,513 House Bill vs. President’s request: +$41,540 Final FY2018 Appropriated Amount: $1,560,000 Click here for more information.
05.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on the House Committee on Natural Resources’ markup announcement for legislation he introduced, H.R. 4419, the Bureau of Reclamation and Bureau of Indian Affairs Water Project Streamlining Act. Rep. Newhouse’s legislation would streamline the Bureau of Reclamation’s and Bureau of Indian Affairs’ environmental planning and study process for new water projects and authorize the next phase of the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan. The Natural Resources Committee will hold the markup on H.R. 4419 on Wednesday, May 16, 2018 at 10:15 a.m. EST in 1324 Longworth House Office Building. “The Yakima Basin Plan is a national model for collaborative water infrastructure planning,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This legislation would streamline the process for water projects and modernize our water supply infrastructure in order to meet the current and future needs of our growing communities. I am grateful to the House Natural Resources Committee and Chairman Rob Bishop for bringing up this legislation for a markup. Authorizing the next phase of the Yakima Basin Plan is long overdue and will provide critical storage and management for the agriculture community, conservationists, residents, and other stakeholders in the Yakima River Basin.” Click here for more information. Background: The Bureau of Reclamation and Bureau of Indian Affairs Surface Water Storage Streamlining Act requires the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) and the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) to accelerate studies and provide more accountability in the agency’s process to study the feasibility of new and or expanded surface water storage. The legislation would provide the same streamlined water project development process for BOR and BIA surface water storage projects that the “Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014” (WRRDA) gave to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps). The goal of the legislation is to reform the current cumbersome, lengthy process so that there is a mechanism to build new surface water storage projects in the West. The bill is designed to speed up BOR’s and BIA’s feasibility study process on surface water storage that “would be owned, funded, or operated” by the agency. The legislation also requires reporting and transparency requirements to provide agency justifications on why feasibility studies are not being completed in a timely manner. The bill closely resembles provisions included in WRRDA. The conference report for WRRDA, which includes nearly identical provisions for the Corps, passed both Houses in the 113th Congress (by a vote of 412-4 in the House and 91-7 in the Senate). Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project: In the 114th Congress, similar legislation authorizing the Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project Phase III (H.R. 4686) introduced by Rep. Reichert and Rep. Newhouse ran into an earmark issue in the House. This revised legislation allows authorization of the Yakima Basin project consistent with the House rules. The Yakima River Basin is one of the leading agricultural regions in Washington State and throughout the country. The orchardists, wine grape growers, and other members of the agricultural community inject approximately $3.2 billion into Washington’s economy and support countless jobs in the area. However, the demand for water in the region currently exceeds the resources available, especially during times of drought, which have hit the state especially hard in the past few years. As a result, water use has been restricted for junior water rights holders - or individuals who obtained water rights in 1905 or later – during times of shortages. With researchers predicting that drought seasons will only become more common and get worse as snowpack in the mountains continues to decline, action needs to be taken so that stakeholders in the Yakima Basin can continue operating without having to worry about whether or not they will be able to water their crops or their backyard garden. As the nation has seen with extreme water problems in California, we must be proactive and have a viable plan in place should intense drought hit Washington. After years of tough negotiations, the Yakima River Basin Plan offers a solution that will give water users more certainty, while also recognizing the concerns of conservationists and the various stakeholders in the Yakima Basin. Specifically, the Yakima River Basin Plan would: Provide greater water supply reliability for farmers and communities. Secure the water that communities need to meet current and future demand. Protect over 200,000 acres of currently unprotected forest, shrub steppe, and river habitat. Enhance habitat along the Yakima River and its tributaries. Implement water marketing and banking so that water is more easily delivered when and where needed. Build fish passage to allow salmon, steelhead, and bull trout to travel throughout the basin. Additional bill highlights: Requires future Reclamation feasibility studies to be completed with three years after the date of initiation and have a maximum federal cost of $3 million. The bill provides for a maximum seven year extension of that time and cost if the Interior Secretary provides a detailed justification to the non-federal project sponsor and the Congress. Requires the Interior Secretary to expedite the completion of any ongoing feasibility studies initiated before the date of enactment. If the Secretary determines that the project is justified in a completed report, he/she shall proceed to proceed to pre-construction planning, engineering and design of the project. Directs the Interior Secretary to develop and implement a coordinated environmental review process with Reclamation and the non-federal project sponsor as lead agencies for expedited environmental review of a project. The bill further directs the lead agencies to establish a schedule for completion of a study and lays out financial penalties to the Interior Secretary if timelines are not met. Directs the Interior Secretary to develop and submit a report to the relevant committees in Congress that identifies project report, proposed project and proposed modifications to studies and federal and non-federal cost estimates for all three. These activities would be similar to the feasibility studies listed in Section 7002 of P.L. 113-121, which authorized construction of projects by Congress. The legislation additionally authorizes the following projects: Shasta Lake Water Resources Investigation - California Equus Beds Division of the Wichita Project – Kansas Musselshell-Judith Rural Water System - Montana
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on House passage of H.R. 3053, the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act of 2018, which provides practical reforms to the nation’s nuclear waste management policy to ensure the federal government fulfills its legal obligations to dispose of spent nuclear fuel and high-level waste. This legislation passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 340 – 72. “The House’s approval of this legislation is an important step forward for the federal government to fulfill its promise to clean up defense nuclear waste currently being stored on the Hanford Site,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This legislation creates a path forward for the licensing of the Yucca Mountain facility, which is already designated by law as the nation’s permanent geologic repository for high-level radioactive waste at Hanford. Yucca Mountain is also the designated repository for spent nuclear fuel that is the result of the process for generating electricity at nuclear power reactors nationwide and at Columbia Generating Station.” Click here for more information on H.R. 3053. Click here to WATCH Newhouse speak in support of legislation to move forward on Yucca Mountain.
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal: “The Obama Administration’s deal with Iran was so flawed that it left President Trump with few options to strengthen it, and he has decided that the best way to negotiate a stronger deal is to use his authority to remove the U.S. from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA),” said Rep. Newhouse. “Iran must never be allowed to gain the capacity to produce a nuclear weapon to terrorize its neighbors and the world, and the flawed Iran deal did not do enough to keep Iran accountable. Now it is up to the Trump Administration to negotiate a stronger replacement to protect U.S. national security interests.”
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statements after receiving a report from the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) on its Fiscal Year 2018 additional funding spending program. The BOR report announced nearly $2 million in new funds for the Columbia Basin Project Ephrata/Pasco Pump Lateral and Potholes Supplemental Feed Route, including $750,000 for oversight and design for a pumping plant and pipeline delivery system for the Odessa Ground Water Replacement Program (OGWRP). “I was pleased that the Bureau of Reclamation approved my request to provide additional resources for the Columbia Basin Project,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This new investment is a positive step forward in ensuring that users who depend on the depleting Odessa Aquifer have sufficient water resources. I appreciate the support of elected leaders at the state and local levels who have worked to make this request a priority, and I am grateful for the investment the state and local leaders have made on this project. It was overdue for the federal government to fulfill their partnership in this project, and I commend the Trump Administration for working with me to provide these resources. I will continue to work with the Bureau of Reclamation, stakeholders, and our state and local leaders to keep the Columbia Basin Project moving and supply much-needed water resources to support our Mid-Columbia economy.” “With declining aquifers in the Odessa Subarea, this project is critical to providing infrastructure needed to bring water from other areas. The approval of $2 million in funding from the Bureau of Reclamation is critical as $750,000 of these funds will be directed towards the pumping plant design and construction and other oversight efforts,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Agriculture is Washington’s number one industry, and this project will ensure Columbia Basin irrigation districts can provide the water needed to grow our crops and fuel our economy. Thank you to Commissioner Burman and the Bureau of Reclamation for being a partner in this effort.”
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statements on the House Appropriations Committee Subcommittee on Energy and Water’s approval in a subcommittee markup of legislation that would end the current forced spill order by requiring federal funds used to operate the Federal Columbia River Power System hydroelectric dams to do so in a manner that is consistent with the Army Corps of Engineers’ 2017 Fish Operations Plan. “This legislation includes language I worked to include to stop the forced spill order at the lower Snake and Columbia River dams,” said Rep. Newhouse. “It also continues congressional efforts to support the Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository, providing funding for statutorily-required activities to store the nation’s nuclear waste – including waste stored at Hanford. I will continue to push these priorities as well as robust federal investment in Hanford cleanup and Pacific Northwest National Laboratory as the legislation moves to the full committee.” “Dams and fish can coexist, and this language in the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill is another avenue for us to stop the spill at the Columbia and Snake River dams,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “We have to get this done to protect our dams, our fish, and ratepayers in the Pacific Northwest. Thank you to Rep. Mike Simpson (R-ID), Chairman of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee for including this critical provision in the bill.” See below for the language approved by the House Appropriations Committee Subcommittee on Energy and Water related to the use of federal funds to operate the Federal Columbia River Power System hydroelectric dams (page 61, line 8): SEC. 506. None of the funds made available in this Act, or federal funds provided from any other source, may be used to operate the Federal Columbia River Power System hydroelectric dams in a manner that is inconsistent with the Army Corps of Engineers’ 2017 Fish Operations Plan.
05.04.2018	SUNNYSIDE – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) announced the winners of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition for high school students in the Fourth Congressional District: “Congratulations to Karen Billingsley on her winning entry in the Fourth Congressional District High School Art Competition, and I commend all students who participated in this year’s contest,” said Rep. Newhouse. “All of the entries showed amazing artistic skill and talent, and I am grateful for the work of community judges who assisted in reviewing the artwork. I will proudly display these pieces in the U.S. Capitol and congressional offices in Washington, D.C., Yakima, and the Tri-Cities for all visitors to enjoy.” Rep. Newhouse’s advisory committee comprised of Fourth District residents helped select the winning entry. Rep. Newhouse has invited the winner to have her work displayed at the U.S. Capitol complex. The winning entry, 1965, by Karen Billingsley from Ephrata High School, will be hung in the U.S. Capitol alongside winning entries from congressional districts across the country for one year. The winner will be invited to Washington, D.C. to attend a reception sponsored by the Congressional Institute, which holds the annual competition. Rep. Newhouse has also invited second-place winner Anna Smith at Three Rivers HomeLink to hang her entry, Tranquility, in his D.C. office. Rep. Newhouse invited tied third-place winner Emilee Black at West Valley High School to display Goat Rocks in his Yakima office and Katrina Sybouts at West Valley High School to display The Golden Hour in his Tri-Cities office. Winner: 1965, Karen Billingsley, 12th grade, Ephrata High School Second Place: Tranquility, Anna Smith, 10th grade, Three Rivers HomeLink Third Place Tie: Goat Rocks, Emilee Black, 12th grade, West Valley High School The Golden Hour, Katrina Sybouts, 12th grade, West Valley High School You can view the entries on Rep. Newhouse’s Facebook page here.
04.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House voted to approve H.R. 4 - FAA Reauthorization Act: “I am pleased that the FAA reauthorization legislation approved by the House today includes language I worked to include that safeguards the Grant County International Airport’s radar facility from further 804 consolidation processes under a military operations exemption,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Consolidating Grant County’s facility would impair national safety because military facilities would lose a vital training and reserve base location. I am grateful for the bipartisan support from my Washington congressional colleagues to include this language that preserves the radar facility, ensures military readiness for our warfighters across the Pacific Northwest, and fosters economic benefits in Grant County.” Background: Section 804 of the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 directed the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to review FAA towers and Terminal Radar Approach Control (TRACON) systems and determine whether those systems be consolidated or realigned with other larger facilities based on net cost savings and safety. In 2015, Grant County International Airport’s TRACON was listed among FAA facilities nationwide for review for consolidation. Consolidating Grant County’s TRACON would have impaired the county’s ability to provide unique and tailored services for Fairchild Airforce Base, Joint Base Lewis McChord, the U.S. Forest Service, Whidbey Island Naval Air Station, the aerospace industry, and the local community. Rep. Newhouse added language included in H.R. 4 that would protect the Grant County facility from further 804 consolidations processes under a military operations exemption.
04.25.2018	WASHINGTON DC - (APRIL 25, 2018) – Today, a bipartisan bill to protect the Columbia and Snake River Dams passed the House by a vote of 225 to 189. This effort, introduced by Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) alongside Reps. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Greg Walden (R-OR), and Kurt Schrader (D-OR), will protect the dams by codifying the 2014 Biological Opinion, a collaborative agreement on how to manage the river system to protect fish and support clean, renewable energy. “I have heard from countless constituents expressing strong support to defend the clean energy and many economic benefits provided by the dams in Central Washington, which is why I introduced this bipartisan legislation with Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers and Pacific Northwest colleagues,” said Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA). “The current Biological Opinion was negotiated with input from a diverse group of local stakeholders and provides a collaborative framework for dam operations that balances energy production with fish recovery efforts. I strongly encourage my colleagues in the U.S. Senate to act to preserve our dams and maintain low energy rates that families rely on in the Mid-Columbia region. I am grateful for the support from my House colleagues on both sides of the aisle in approving this legislation to save our dams on the lower Snake and Columbia Rivers.” “Dams and fish can coexist, and after more than two decades in the courtroom, let’s let scientists, not judges, manage our river system and get to work to further improve fish recovery efforts,” said Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA). “When the sun doesn’t shine and the wind doesn’t blow, our dams provide critical baseload energy to power homes and businesses all across Eastern Washington and the Pacific Northwest. Not only that, they provide transportation and irrigation benefits for our farmers, flood control for our communities, and recreational opportunities that fuel our economy. This isn’t about the merits of protecting salmon, we all agree on that. This is about providing certainty and letting experts and scientists in the region, who know the river best, work collaboratively to meet that goal. I’m proud to usher this legislation through the House.” “There’s only one sensible way to balance the health of our salmon runs with residents’ need for low-cost, hydropower energy in the Northwest – and that’s to restore a scientifically-backed operations plan,” said Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA). “On behalf of our salmon, our Northwest ratepayers, our economy, and our environment, passing H.R. 3144 is vital to ensure that we’re relying on collaboration and science to best manage our river system.” “Our bill finally codifies that science, not politics or the courts, should dictate the best way to balance fish recovery and the power needs in the Pacific Northwest,” said Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-OR). “Scientific experts steeped in fish recovery and clean renewable energy will be able to do their job based on good science rather than an ideological crusade to eliminate dams on the river system resulting in the loss of our region’s best carbon free energy asset. Simply put, the Columbia River Power System will be managed according to the 2014 Obama Administration approved biological opinion until a new BiOp can be completed by 2022, saving ratepayers millions of dollars. I am pleased to have worked with Rep. McMorris Rodgers, and our Pacific Northwest colleagues, on this bill to bring science back into the equation for our Oregon and Pacific Northwest Salmon recovery efforts.” “In Oregon and throughout the Pacific Northwest, we are blessed with a river system that allows goods to flow to market and provides renewable hydropower that generates 43% of electricity in our state,” said Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR). “River operations that have been guided by years of research by federal agencies, tribes and other cooperators have now been threatened by court order, and Northwest families and our communities will likely pay the price in higher power rates. This legislation provides needed certainty for power generation and river operations while federal agencies update the biological opinion and court proceedings continue. This is important for our ag communities, renewable energy generation and power users across our region. I was glad to work with my colleague from Oregon, Kurt Schrader, to pass this legislation through the House, and I hope the Senate will act promptly on this bipartisan plan.” Today, Rep. Newhouse spoke on the House floor in support of H.R. 3144 to protect dams on the lower Snake and Columbia Rivers. You can see his full remarks here. NOTE: In March of 2017, U.S. District Judge Michael Simon issued a court order requiring federal agencies to increase spill over the Columbia and Snake River dams. This order, which formally began on April 2nd, is expected to cost taxpayers roughly $40 million. Many scientists contend that spill leads to increased dissolved nitrogen and other gases in the water, actually killing fish. Many in opposition to this legislation falsely cite declining salmon returns as the primary reason. In reality, since the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) started tracking fish returns in the 1930’s, fish returns have steadily increased and are at all time highs currently, largely due to increase collaboration and technology, the kind of collaboration H.R. 3144 will continue. Find more information here. This bipartisan legislation was introduced in June of 2017 by Pacific Northwest Reps. Cathy McMorris-Rodgers (R-WA), Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), and Greg Walden (R-OR). Additionally, this legislation has received overwhelming local support with more 20 letters of support from diverse groups and interests including ports, unions, river users, power groups, and other important stakeholders. You can find a summary of support here.
04.24.2018	Sunnyside, WA – On Tuesday, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Google paid a visit to Sunnyside High School to deliver the Online Safety Roadshow: How to Be Internet Awesome, an online safety assembly developed by Google for middle school students. Rep. Newhouse participated in Tuesday’s presentation and opened the assembly by expressing the importance of online safety to the students and competing in the password faceoff challenge, where students are asked to come up with the strongest possible password. Two Google employees delivered the 45-minute presentation, which focuses on five tips for staying safe and being smart online. They covered topics including: sharing with care, setting strong passwords, using settings on different websites and apps, identifying online scams, and being kind online. “The internet can be an incredible tool that young people use to connect to education resources and expand their understanding of our world,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Internet safety and online identity protection are on the minds of many families. The presentation today was a great opportunity for Google to help equip young people in Central Washington with tips so that they can navigate the web safely.” "With students having greater access to the Internet through cell phones, tablets and other devices, it is important that they learn to use these tools responsibly," said Amber Tillman, a Google spokesperson. "The Online Safety Roadshow: How to Be Internet Awesome teaches students how to be smart and safe online in today’s interconnected world." The Online Safety Roadshow: How to Be Internet Awesome is a Google program designed to educate parents and students on how to be smart, successful and safe online. The presentation is a 45-minute assembly that teaches middle school students how to be smart about the content they share online. It focuses on important skills, including how to create a safe and memorable password, identifying phishing scams, and more. For more tips about how to keep yourself and your family safe online, visit: g.co/beinternetawesome.
04.20.2018	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following joint statement applauding the announcement that their bipartisan legislation, H.R. 3144, will go to the floor of the House of Representatives for a full vote next week. H.R. 3144 would protect the Columbia and Snake River dams and ensure dams and fish can coexist by preserving the current Federal Columbia River Power System Biological Opinion (BiOp) until 2022. Additional cosponsors of H.R. 3144 include Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR), Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Rep. Mark Amodei (R-NV), Rep. Raul Labrador (R-ID), Rep. Greg Gianforte (R-MT), and Rep. Paul Gosar (R-AZ). H.R. 3144 was approved by a House Natural Resources Committee markup last week with support from both sides of the aisle. “Today’s announcement marks important progress for our bipartisan legislation to safeguard the clean energy benefits provided by our region’s dams,” said Reps. Newhouse and McMorris Rodgers in a joint statement. “Our legislation will keep in place the current collaborative framework that fosters fish recovery efforts while balancing the many economic contributions of our dams. We are grateful to Speaker Paul Ryan and House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy for ensuring that our bill will move forward to receive a vote in the House.” Background: In March of 2017, U.S. District Judge Michael Simon issued a court order that federal agencies increase spill over Columbia and Snake River dams beginning in spring of 2018. Federal agencies have estimated that without action to prevent the order from taking effect, increasing spill will result in an increase of $40 million in costs for ratepayers in 2018 alone. The judge’s order to increase spill went into effect on April 3, 2018. In June of 2017, Pacific Northwest Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), and Greg Walden (R-OR) introduced bipartisan legislation, H.R. 3144, to approve the Federal Columbia River Power System Biological Opinion (BiOp) until 2022. The existing FCRPS BiOp helps ensure that the Pacific Northwest has access to clean, renewable, and affordable energy to power homes, businesses, and communities. The FCRPS BiOp was the product of unprecedented collaboration between President Barack Obama’s administration, states, and sovereign Northwest tribes. The BiOp has helped to produce record fish returns through the use of modern, innovative technology, and has widespread support in the region. Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) has noted $15.28 billion in total spending since 1978 on fish recovery and mitigation in the FCRPS. BPA also reported that average juvenile dam passage survival currently ranges between 92 and 96 percent for yearling Chinook salmon and steelhead smolts at each of the four lower Snake River dams. In response to Judge Simon’s ordering of increased spill over the dams, BPA said consequences could cause “biological, physical and/or structural, and potential adverse consequences for the combined federal power and transmission system.” H.R. 3144 protects the Columbia and Snake River dams and the benefits they bring to the Pacific Northwest region through the clean, renewable, and affordable energy it provides while allowing salmon to recover at record rates. With Judge Simon’s court order looming for ratepayers, Reps. Newhouse, McMorris-Rodgers, and Herrera Beutler responded to a letter from U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and others opposing H.R. 3144. You can read the full text of the legislation here. In March, Reps. McMorris Rodgers, Newhouse and Herrera Beutler penned a column in the Tri City Herald advocating for the importance of protecting our dams and working collaboratively to recover endangered salmon. In case you missed it, you can read the column here.
04.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on the U.S. and allied strikes on the Syrian regime: “Assad's commitment of atrocities using chemical weapons against innocent civilians cannot be tolerated by civilized nations,” said Rep. Newhouse. “While long-term questions remain on our engagement in Syria, I support the decision by President Trump to join with our allies to launch the targeted military response tonight to hold the Assad regime accountable.”
04.13.2018	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) introduced legislation, H.R. 5504, with the support of the entire Washington delegation in the U.S. House, to designate the U.S. Postal Service facility at 4801 West Van Giesen Street in West Richland, Washington, as the “Sergeant Dietrich Schmieman Post Office.” Sergeant Dietrich Schmieman of Richland was serving in the U.S. Marine Corps 2nd Raider Battalion at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina when he was tragically killed in a cargo plane crash in Mississippi on July 10, 2017. “Our country owes a debt of gratitude for individuals like Dietrich who, through his service, has preserved the freedoms that are the cornerstone of our nation,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Sergeant Schmieman’s death was a tragedy, but I hope to be able to honor his sacrifice with this legislation and commemorate his memory by naming this West Richland Post Office after him.” “Our son was passionate about the Pacific Northwest,” said Eric and Susan Schmieman, Dietrich’s parents. “It was such an integral part of him that he had a PNW tattoo and asked that his ashes be spread on Mount Rainier. Dietrich was equally passionate about his service in the Marine Corps, especially serving as a member of their special operations team, the Raiders. He held his Tri-Cities childhood friends as close as his brothers-in-arms. We are grateful that a federal building will be named after a young man who gave his life for our nation – a local building that will be visited often by his friends and family.” Click here to watch Rep. Newhouse address the House floor in honor of Sgt. Dietrich Schmieman.
04.12.2018	“This proposal flies in the face of the very priorities the Department of Interior claims to espouse: to ‘restore trust and be a good neighbor.’” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) expressed deep concern regarding the U.S. Department of Interior’s announcement in March of Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke’s support for transporting grizzly bears into Central Washington. Rep. Newhouse requested that the public comment period be restarted so that local impacted communities could have their say on the proposal: Newhouse wrote in a letter to Secretary Zinke: “Bringing grizzlies to the North Cascades would have grave impacts on my constituents in Washington’s 4th Congressional District. Just as my constituents have consistently expressed their steadfast opposition to this proposal, I will continue to stand in opposition to a plan that threatens the way of life in North Central Washington. I opposed this proposal when it was introduced by the previous administration and will continue to do so if the current administration moves forward with this plan.” Rep. Newhouse continued in the letter: “Over the past three years, I have been in contact with families, farmers, outdoor recreationists, local elected representatives, and community stakeholders who do not feel their concerns have been taken seriously by federal officials. I recommend you do the same. I would be happy to facilitate such conversations. The federal government must listen to and respect the local communities that will be affected by this plan, and I urge you to take into consideration the negative impacts this plan will have on the constituents of the 4th Congressional District. “I believe the federal government should defer to the will of state and local communities on species reintroduction issues, and I encourage you to evaluate the need for reintroducing grizzly bears into the [North Cascades Ecosystem], as well as the substantial impacts this action would have on local communities, businesses, and families. Additionally, given the disrespectful manner with which my constituents have been treated, the public comment process must be restarted to allow residents the opportunity to voice their concerns and comment on the proposal in the proper setting.” Click here or see below for the text of the entire letter. April 12, 2018 The Honorable Ryan Zinke Secretary of Interior U.S. Department of Interior 1849 C Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20240 Dear Secretary Zinke: I write to express my deep disappointment and concern with your recent announcement to support the transportation of grizzly bears into the North Cascades Ecosystem (NCE). Bringing grizzlies to the North Cascades would have grave impacts on my constituents in Washington’s 4th Congressional District. Just as my constituents have consistently expressed their steadfast opposition to this proposal, I will continue to stand in opposition to a plan that threatens the way of life in North Central Washington. I opposed this proposal when it was introduced by the previous administration and will continue to do so if the current administration moves forward with this plan. This proposal flies in the face of the very priorities the Department of Interior claims to espouse: to “restore trust and be a good neighbor.” I have previously expressed my profound concerns regarding the process the National Park Service (NPS) and U.S. Department of Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) took in conducting so-called “public forums.” One of these forums was held in Okanogan County, and the feedback from the event was nothing short of disturbing. While these sessions were billed as public forums – where residents could learn about the proposal and voice their opinions – many residents were not allowed to express their concerns and were treated in an unacceptable manner by the federal employees conducting the session. In order for the Department of Interior to restore trust and expect to be considered a good neighbor, the Department must ensure the voices of the communities that will be directly impacted by this decision are heard. The introduction of these apex predators into this area will negatively impact ranchers, recreationists, and rural economies in Central and Eastern Washington. An action as impactful as reintroducing grizzly bears into an ecosystem that is co-inhabited with people and livestock should only be made with sound science and the support of the affected local community members. The last confirmed sighting of a grizzly in the North Cascades was in 1996, and even the draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) found that it is “highly unlikely that the area contains a viable grizzly bear population.” This creates serious reservations about the proposal and the facts being used to justify this action. Furthermore, this proposal is illegal. Washington State law states that grizzly bears “shall not be transplanted or introduced into the state” (RCW 77.12.035, SSB 5106 (1995)). Should you continue to support the introduction of grizzly bears into the North Cascades Ecosystem, I encourage you to consult Washington State law. Over the past three years, I have been in contact with families, farmers, outdoor recreationists, local elected representatives, and community stakeholders who do not feel their concerns have been taken seriously by federal officials. I recommend you do the same. I would be happy to facilitate such conversations. The federal government must listen to and respect the local communities that will be affected by this plan, and I urge you to take into consideration the negative impacts this plan will have on the constituents of the 4th Congressional District. I have attached my previous letter to the Superintendent of the North Cascades National Park Service expressing my grave concerns with this proposal. I believe the federal government should defer to the will of state and local communities on species reintroduction issues, and I encourage you to evaluate the need for reintroducing grizzly bears into the NCE, as well as the substantial impacts this action would have on local communities, businesses, and families. Additionally, given the disrespectful manner with which my constituents have been treated, the public comment process must be restarted to allow residents the opportunity to voice their concerns and comment on the proposal in the proper setting. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. I look forward to your response. Sincerely,
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) spoke on the House floor in support of H.J. Res. 2 proposing a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution of the United States. Rep. Newhouse is a cosponsor, and the legislation was not approved by the House today on a vote of 233-184 because it required a two-thirds majority. In order for Congress to consistently make the tough decisions necessary to control spending, elected representatives need the external pressure of a balanced budget requirement. H.J. Res 2 would provide that external structure through a Constitutional amendment, ratified by the states. Specifically, H.J. Res 2 would mandate that Congress not spend more money than it receives in revenue. This amendment would also require a true majority in both the House and Senate to pass a tax increase, along with a three-fifths supermajority requirement to raise the debt limit. Click here to WATCH Rep. Newhouse speak in support of a Balanced Budget Amendment Transcript: I rise in strong support of the Balanced Budget Amendment offered by my friend and colleague, Congressman Goodlatte. Reining in the federal debt is not a partisan issue. In fact, the majority of Americans are united in consistently supporting a requirement to balance the federal budget. Our national debt has surpassed a record $22 trillion—you have heard that several times today. That is more than $64,000 for every man, woman, and child in this country. It’s more than $174,000 of debt for every U.S. taxpayer. If we continue to let this number grow, we continue to dig a deeper hole for our children and our grandchildren. Since I came to Congress in 2015, I have worked to ensure the government does not spend above its means. I have cosponsored several resolutions in support of an amendment to the U.S. Constitution to balance the budget, and am proud to be an original cosponsor of this legislation that we consider today. In the 114th Congress, my colleagues and I offered an amendment to the Debt Management and Fiscal Responsibility Act, requiring the Secretary of the Treasury to appear before Congress and submit a report with solutions to control the national debt before raising the debt ceiling. I have also consistently voiced my strong concerns with fiscally irresponsible spending packages, as I did earlier this year with the deal to bust our budget caps and send our nation further into debt. Mr. Speaker, we are on a high-speed train heading towards a very large fiscal cliff, and, soon, it may be too late to slow this train down. This insurmountable debt threatens our nation’s economic and national security as well as future generations. The people of this country and of Washington’s 4th Congressional District demand better and expect their representatives to promote fiscal responsibility. Over 20 years ago – when the federal deficit was at $5 trillion – a balanced budget amendment failed by a single vote in the U.S. Senate. It is time to put a stop to the federal government’s out-of-control spending and use our authority in Congress to prioritize spending. This Balanced Budget Amendment to the United States Constitution is a great step in the right direction.
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Congressman Dan Newhouse (WA-04) applauded the House Natural Resources Committee passage of their bipartisan legislation (H.R. 3144) to protect the Columbia and Snake River dams and ensure dams and fish can coexist. “Hydropower helped build the Northwest, and still today it offers us clean, renewable, reliable, and affordable energy to help power our homes, businesses, and communities,” said McMorris Rodgers. “I’m proud to see this bipartisan legislation pass the House Natural Resources Committee today and look forward to it coming before the full House in the coming weeks. My goal is to ensure that dams and fish can co-exist, and this Biological Opinion provides a collaborative approach so we can continue to improve technology and fish recovery efforts, while supporting the clean energy produced on our dams. I’m proud to lead this effort along with the support of organizations and people all across Eastern Washington.” “Without Snake and Columbia river dams and the many benefits they provide, life in Central Washington as we know it would be unrecognizable,” said Newhouse. “I represent communities that actually live with the consequences of forced increased spill or potentially breaching dams, whether through higher electricity rates, higher transportation costs, reduced access to irrigation water, reduced flood control, and more. I appreciate the support from colleagues on both sides of the aisle for this bipartisan legislation to preserve the benefits of dams that communities in Central Washington depend on. We need to safeguard our dams while continuing to invest in fish recovery efforts because the cost of the alternative is too high for rural communities. I am grateful to Chairman Bishop for his support in committee as this legislation moves forward.” “This is a bipartisan bill with broad local support from citizens in the Pacific Northwest. It removes unnecessary federal barriers to water and power resources while protecting the environment, and I thank Rep. McMorris Rodgers and her colleagues from the region for their ongoing work to move this bill forward,” Chairman Rob Bishop (R-Utah) said. NOTE: With a commitment from the Speaker of the House, this legislation will now go to the floor of the House of Representatives for a full vote in the coming weeks. In March, McMorris Rodgers, Newhouse and Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03) penned a column in the Tri City Herald advocating for the importance of protecting our dams and working collaboratively to recover endangered salmon. In case you missed it, you can read the column here.
04.10.2018	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) led 43 members in a bipartisan request to House Committee on Agriculture Chairman Michael Conaway (R-TX) and Ranking Member Collin Peterson (D-MN) expressing strong support for the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) trade and export market development programs at the Foreign Agriculture Service (FAS). The Members requested in a letter that House Agriculture Committee leaders reauthorize the USDA’s Market Access Program (MAP) and Foreign Market Development Program (FMD) and include provisions of Rep. Newhouse’s legislation, H.R. 2321, the Cultivating Revitalization by Expanding American Agriculture Trade and Exports Act (CREAATE Act), which was introduced last year both in the House and Senate with bipartisan support, in the farm bill. The Members wrote: “American agriculture and American workers continue to face increasingly strong international competition supported by government-sponsored activities. A major study completed in November 2017 on behalf of several U.S. agricultural export market development organizations found that twelve countries and the European Union (EU) central government alone spent an estimated $943 million on agricultural export promotion for agrifood products in 2016. In comparison, the U.S. spent an estimated $239 million in total for export promotion through MAP, FMD, and other programs in 2016, which was nearly 12 percent lower than 2011 levels. The U.S. is being outspent nearly 4 to 1 by these twelve countries and the EU central government—an increase of 70 percent in real competitive public spending since 2011. While other governments are investing more in global food and agricultural markets, inflation, sequestration, and administrative costs are chipping away at U.S. funding.” The Members continued in the letter: “We again ask as your Committee begins consideration of the 2018 Farm Bill that we can continue to work with you to reauthorize and expand these crucial agricultural market development programs to reassert the importance of America’s agricultural producers and retain its edge in an increasingly competitive global economy.” Background: Rep. Newhouse and Rep. Chellie Pingree (D-ME) previously introduced H.R. 2321, the Cultivating Revitalization by Expanding American Agricultural Trade and Exports (CREAATE) Act. The CREAATE Act would reassert the importance of the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Market Access Program (MAP) and Foreign Market Development Program (FMDP) to America’s agricultural producers and economy as a whole, and provide the U.S. agricultural community with the tools needed to retain its edge in an increasingly competitive global economy by doubling funding for MAP and FMDP. You can read the text of the letter to Chairman Conaway and Ranking Member Peterson here or below: April 10, 2018 Dear Chairman Conaway and Ranking Member Peterson, As the House Committee on Agriculture takes up consideration of the 2018 Farm Bill soon, we write with our strong support for the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) trade and export market development programs at the Foreign Agriculture Service (FAS). Specifically, we ask that you consider the importance of the Market Access Program (MAP) and Foreign Market Development Program (FMD) and ask that you reauthorize these vital trade promotion programs and include provisions of H.R. 2321, the Cultivating Revitalization by Expanding American Agriculture Trade and Exports Act (CREAATE Act) in the farm bill. For decades, USDA export development programs like MAP and FMD have helped American farmers create, expand, and maintain access to foreign markets. Throughout their history, this successful public-private partnership has cultivated hundreds of billions of dollars in exports, and created millions of American jobs, both in the agriculture sector and in support industries. However, statutory funding for MAP and FMD has been static since the 2002 Farm Bill. In addition, those funds have been eroded due to inflation and administrative costs. The support from private sector partners, which have grown to 70 percent of available funds in 2014, have sustained these programs at a level far exceeding program requirements. Without these private contributions and the private sector’s resolve to support our export programs, it is very likely that the United States would not be the net agricultural exporter that we are today. American agriculture and American workers continue to face increasingly strong international competition supported by government-sponsored activities. A major study completed in November 2017 on behalf of several U.S. agricultural export market development organizations found that twelve countries and the European Union (EU) central government alone spent an estimated $943 million on agricultural export promotion for agrifood products in 20161. In comparison, the U.S. spent an estimated $239 million in total for export promotion through MAP, FMD, and other programs in 2016, which was nearly 12 percent lower than 2011 levels. The U.S. is being outspent nearly 4 to 1 by these twelve countries and the EU central government—an increase of 70 percent in real competitive public spending since 2011. While other governments are investing more in global food and agricultural markets, inflation, sequestration, and administrative costs are chipping away at U.S. funding. We again ask as your Committee begins consideration of the 2018 Farm Bill that we can continue to work with you to reauthorize and expand these crucial agricultural market development programs to reassert the importance of America’s agricultural producers and retain its edge in an increasingly competitive global economy. Sincerely,
04.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The 60 Plus Association announced in March that Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) has earned the Association’s Guardian of Seniors’ Rights award. “I am honored by the recognition from 60 Plus for efforts to protect senior citizens,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The federal government has made promises to senior citizens to provide Medicare and Social Security, and we are responsible for keeping the nation in fiscal order to fulfill those promises.” Entertainer Pat Boone, National Spokesman for the 60 Plus Association, announced that Washington Representative Dan Newhouse has earned the Association’s Guardian of Seniors’ Rights award. In a statement released by 60 Plus Association, spokesman and noted American singer Pat Boone remarked, “I’m still singing at concerts, but today I’m singing the praises of Congressman Dan Newhouse. Seniors can depend on Dan.” Boone, 82, and his wife of 61 years, Shirley, reside in California. On behalf of the American Association of Senior Citizens, 60 Plus Chairman Jim Martin was on hand at an event in the nation’s capital to present Rep. Newhouse with the award: “The Guardian Award is given to members in appreciation of their tireless efforts on behalf of senior citizens, as so many of our elderly struggle on a fixed income,” said Jim Martin. “Seniors have to live within their means and so should our government. Rep. Newhouse will fight to end the 'Death Tax,' which negatively impacts small businesses, farmers and ranchers throughout the Nation We also particularly appreciate the efforts by Rep. Newhouse to assure the financial stability of Social Security and Medicare. “That’s why Representative Newhouse has earned the Association’s highest award, and it’s my honor to personally present it,” Martin emphasized. The 60 Plus Association is a 26-year-old nonpartisan organization working for death tax repeal, saving Social Security and Medicare, affordable prescription drugs, lowering energy costs and other issues featuring a less government, less taxes approach as well as a strict adherence to the Constitution. 60 Plus calls on support from over 7 million activists. 60 Plus has been called, “an increasingly influential senior citizen’s group,” and recognized as the alternative to the AARP.
04.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statement on the markup announcement for bipartisan legislation, H.R. 3144, which they introduced to protect the operations of Snake and Columbia River dams. The Committee on Natural Resources will hold a markup on H.R. 3144 on Wednesday, April 11, 2018 at 10:15 a.m. in 1324 Longworth House Office Building. “The lower Columbia and Snake River dams are critical infrastructure in our region, providing many benefits that include flood control, navigation, irrigation, recreation, and clean, low-cost, carbon-free power,” said Reps. Newhouse and McMorris Rodgers. “The judge’s order increasing forced spill and mandating the possibility of breaching flies in the face of the current collaborative framework that is the result of years of study and stakeholder input. Our legislation would allow the continued operation of the dams under that framework to preserve the benefits of our energy infrastructure while continuing to invest in fish recovery efforts. Dams and fish can coexist, and we look forward to House consideration of our legislation to ensure that essential infrastructure assets in the Pacific Northwest are not removed.” Click here for more information. Additional cosponsors of H.R. 3144 include: Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR) Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-OR) Rep. Mark Amodei (R-NV) Rep. Raul Labrador (R-ID) Rep. Greg Gianforte (R-MT) Background: In March of 2017, U.S. District Judge Michael Simon issued a court order that federal agencies increase spill over Columbia and Snake River dams beginning in spring of 2018. Federal agencies have estimated that without action to prevent the order from taking effect, increasing spill will result in an increase of $40 million in costs for ratepayers in 2018 alone. The judge’s order to increase spill went into effect on April 3, 2018. In June of 2017, Pacific Northwest Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03), Dan Newhouse (WA-04), Kurt Schrader (OR-05), and Greg Walden (OR-02) introduced bipartisan legislation, H.R. 3144, to approve the Federal Columbia River Power System Biological Opinion (BiOp) until 2022. The existing FCRPS BiOp helps ensure that the Pacific Northwest has access to clean, renewable, and affordable energy to power homes, businesses, and communities. The FCRPS BiOp was the product of unprecedented collaboration between President Barack Obama’s administration, states, and sovereign Northwest tribes. The BiOp has helped to produce record fish returns through the use of modern, innovative technology, and has widespread support in the region. Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) has noted $15.28 billion in total spending since 1978 on fish recovery and mitigation in the FCRPS. BPA also reported that average juvenile dam passage survival currently ranges between 96 and 99 percent for yearling Chinook salmon and steelhead smolts at each dam. In response to Judge Simon’s ordering of increased spill over the dams, BPA said consequences could cause “biological, physical and/or structural, and potential adverse consequences for the combined federal power and transmission system.” H.R. 3144 protects the Columbia and Snake River dams and the benefits they bring to the Pacific Northwest region through the clean, renewable, and affordable energy it provides while allowing salmon to recover at record rates. With Judge Simon’s court order looming for ratepayers, Reps. Newhouse, McMorris-Rodgers, and Herrera Beutler responded to a letter from U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and others opposing H.R. 3144. You can read the full text of the legislation here.
03.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke announced support for grizzly bear restoration in the North Cascades: “I am disappointed that Sec. Zinke did not first speak with me about his support of reintroducing grizzly bears in the North Cascades,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I reiterate that I hold the same position that I took after listening to my constituents. Local communities in Central Washington thought reintroducing grizzly bears was a bad idea when proposed by the previous administration, and it would be just as bad an idea if entertained by the current administration. The federal government should listen to and respect the local community.”
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after voting ‘no’ on H.R. 1625 - Consolidated Appropriations Act. “Our national debt – which just surpassed a record $21 trillion – is the greatest national security threat we face,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This spending legislation simply digs a deeper hole for future generations. While I am proud of my work to secure strong provisions for Hanford and Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, this bill fails to address numerous other key concerns for Central Washington. I was disappointed that House and Senate leadership stripped my language authorizing H2A workers to work year-round. Further, this legislation failed to include my provision to prevent the imminent increase of spill at dams on the Mid-Columbia and Snake rivers, which will cost ratepayers $40 million this year alone. Central Washington’s agriculture-based economy depends on reliable supplies of labor, water, and energy, and I could not support this legislation that did not address my constituents’ concerns.”
03.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Dan Newhouse (WA-04), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), and Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03) sent a letter to U.S. Senators Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell urgently requesting assistance in the appropriations process to place a pause on the court-mandated spill order scheduled to begin April 3, 2018 at the eight lower Snake River and lower Columbia River dams. The representatives wrote in the letter: “We implore you as Washington’s U.S. Senators to assist our efforts to place a pause on the impending spill order mandated to begin April 3, 2018 at the eight lower Snake River and lower Columbia River dams. We respectfully ask for your support of our language in the upcoming Fiscal Year 2018 Appropriations legislation to safeguard the Federal Columbia River Power System (FCRPS) while the ongoing litigation in the 9th Circuit Court runs its course. While we understand this pending legal process is still taking place, we believe it is paramount as a co-equal branch of government for Congress to ensure actions conducted within the FCRPS are solely based upon the best-available science.” The representatives continued: “We are very concerned by the unintended consequences this forced spill order could have on our shared constituents, as well as the rest of the Pacific Northwest. The three FCRPS Action Agencies—the Army Corps of Engineers (Corps), Bonneville Power Administration (BPA), and Bureau of Reclamation (BOR)—have estimated that should the additional forced spill begin on April 3rd, Pacific Northwest ratepayers could face a $40 million price tag in increased rates this year alone.” The representatives continued: “As you well know, over 70% of Washington’s electricity comes from clean, renewable hydropower—the impact on our power system will not only affect our Districts, but rather all of Pacific Northwest ratepayers. “This is simply not worth the risk. We must come to the aid of our constituents to stop the $40 million bill that could land on their backs this year alone. Using the legislative language we have developed through many months of working through the technical assistance provided by the Corps, BPA, and BOR, we can ensure our energy infrastructure, transportation and barging systems, flood control capabilities, irrigation systems, our economy, and in fact—the very fish species the BiOp was developed to protect—shall not be harmed by this reckless order for forced additional spill. We again implore you to join our efforts.” Click here or see below for the text of the entire letter. Dear Senators Murray and Cantwell, We implore you as Washington’s U.S. Senators to assist our efforts to place a pause on the impending spill order mandated to begin April 3, 2018 at the eight lower Snake River and lower Columbia River dams. We respectfully ask for your support of our language in the upcoming Fiscal Year 2018 Appropriations legislation to safeguard the Federal Columbia River Power System (FCRPS) while the ongoing litigation in the 9th Circuit Court runs its course. While we understand this pending legal process is still taking place, we believe it is paramount as a co-equal branch of government for Congress to ensure actions conducted within the FCRPS are solely based upon the best-available science. The 2014 Biological Opinion (BiOp) was the product of unprecedented collaboration between the scientists and engineering experts at our federal agencies, President Obama’s Administration, the states, and the sovereign Northwest tribes. While we fully acknowledge the judicial system’s role in the application of the law, we do not accept that one federal judge knows how to better operate our federal hydropower system than the scientists and engineering experts at our federal agencies; nor do we accept that Congress, which makes the laws, should cede its constitutional power to legislatively clarify the proper intent and functioning of statutory laws. We are very concerned by the unintended consequences this forced spill order could have on our shared constituents, as well as the rest of the Pacific Northwest. The three FCRPS Action Agencies—the Army Corps of Engineers (Corps), Bonneville Power Administration (BPA), and Bureau of Reclamation (BOR)—have estimated that should the additional forced spill begin on April 3rd, Pacific Northwest ratepayers could face a $40 million price tag in increased rates this year alone. There are other serious potential consequences of Judge Simon’s forced spill order. The 2014 Supplemental Biological Opinion states that increased spill would have “biological, physical and/or structural, and potential adverse consequences for the combined Federal power and transmission system.” BPA notes, “the risks of exposing fish to the maximum TDG [total dissolved gas] level throughout the duration of the spring migration period have not been evaluated, nor has it been recommended by NMFS [National Marine Fisheries Service] or the Corps. The potential for adverse effects from exposure to increased system-wide TDG levels is a concern recognized by experts in the region and also creates risk of adverse consequences for other aquatic species.” The BiOp was developed to protect the very fish species Judge Simon’s unscientific order could now harm. We also believe there will be detrimental structural impacts that will decrease safety and impair navigation within the FCRPS. BPA states, “high levels of spill are known to pull large rocks into the spillway stilling basin and erode concrete near the base of the spillway… The Corps is assessing other projects to determine the potential for increased erosion of dam features at other dams due to increased spill. It is important to note that the spillways at each of the eight fish passage dams on the lower Snake and lower Columbia Rivers were not designed to pass large amounts of spill…” BPA adds, “…increased spill would likely be a negative impact to navigation during the spring. Spill operations are known to impact safe navigation at a number of downstream navigation lock approaches at the projects in the lower Snake and Columbia Rivers… It is anticipated that higher spill percentages will increase the number and duration of spill curtailments for barge and cruise ship traffic.” Finally, by allowing for the forced spill, we could see potential impacts to the reliability of the federal power and transmission system. By operating the lower Snake and lower Columbia Rivers at diminished levels, we will decrease the ability to utilize the hydropower system to meet peak demand and increase the risk of disruption. As you well know, over 70% of Washington’s electricity comes from clean, renewable hydropower—the impact on our power system will not only affect our Districts, but rather all of Pacific Northwest ratepayers. This is simply not worth the risk. We must come to the aid of our constituents to stop the $40 million bill that could land on their backs this year alone. Using the legislative language we have developed through many months of working through the technical assistance provided by the Corps, BPA, and BOR, we can ensure our energy infrastructure, transportation and barging systems, flood control capabilities, irrigation systems, our economy, and in fact—the very fish species the BiOp was developed to protect—shall not be harmed by this reckless order for forced additional spill. We again implore you to join our efforts. Sincerely,
03.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on the passing of Rep. Louise Slaughter (D-NY): “My friendship with my colleague Louise went beyond politics,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Louise’s friendship, and her kind words and counsel, were a source of comfort for me while overcoming my own recent, deep personal loss. I mourn the passing of a dear friend. I extend my sincere condolences to her children and grandchildren.”
03.15.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) secured a commitment from U.S. Secretary of Energy Rick Perry to work together to safeguard federal dams in the Pacific Northwest during a House Committee on Appropriations Energy and Water Development Subcommittee hearing. In August, 2017 at the invitation of Rep. Newhouse, Secretary Perry visited McNary Dam on the Columbia River: Rep. Newhouse: “As part of your visit [to Central Washington] you were able to visit the McNary Dam, and so you were able to see I think I could say firsthand really the huge role that the hydroelectric dams play in the Pacific Northwest. It’s truly an amazing thing. The Federal Columbia River Power System unfortunately, today, though is being threatened. And so that means our energy, our transportation, our agriculture, our irrigation, our flood control, our economy is truly at risk in the Pacific Northwest. People on this panel, my colleagues here, and other places in Congress have heard me speak strongly and passionately about this, and they will continue to, because right now there is a single federal judge that is forcing additional spill at our dams. That decision overrides a comprehensive Biological Opinion that was agreed to by scientists and engineers at federal agencies, by Northwest tribes, by local and state governments, regional experts and stakeholders. I’ve got proposed language alongside with my colleagues Representatives McMorris Rodgers and Herrera Beutler for the appropriations bill for Fiscal Year ‘18 to prevent this additional spill, and if we are able to do that we will save Pacific Northwest ratepayers—in just one year—$40-million in increased utility rates. I know that you are a strong proponent of renewable hydroelectric power, Mr. Secretary: Would you commit to working with me to prevent this forced additional spill, save our dams, which are a vital component to our way of life in the Pacific Northwest?” Secretary Perry: “The short answer: Yes.” Click here to WATCH the full exchange between Rep Newhouse and Secretary Perry. Background: In March of 2017, U.S. District Judge Michael Simon issued a court order that federal agencies increase spill over Columbia and Snake River dams beginning in spring of 2018. Federal agencies have estimated that without action to prevent the order from taking effect, increasing spill will result in an increase of $40 million in costs for ratepayers in 2018 alone. In June of 2017, Pacific Northwest Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03), Dan Newhouse (WA-04), Kurt Schrader (OR-05), and Greg Walden (OR-02) introduced bipartisan legislation, H.R. 3144, to approve the Federal Columbia River Power System Biological Opinion (BiOp) until 2022. The existing FCRPS BiOp helps ensure that the Pacific Northwest has access to clean, renewable, and affordable energy to power homes, businesses, and communities. The FCRPS BiOp was the product of unprecedented collaboration between President Barack Obama’s administration, states, and sovereign Northwest tribes. The BiOp has helped to produce record fish returns through the use of modern, innovative technology, and has widespread support in the region. Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) has noted $15.28 billion in total spending since 1978 on fish recovery and mitigation in the FCRPS. BPA also reported that average juvenile dam passage survival currently ranges between 96 and 99 percent for yearling Chinook salmon and steelhead smolts at each dam. In response to Judge Simon’s ordering of increased spill over the dams, BPA said consequences could cause “biological, physical and/or structural, and potential adverse consequences for the combined federal power and transmission system.” H.R. 3144 protects the Columbia and Snake River dams and the benefits they bring to the Pacific Northwest region through the clean, renewable, and affordable energy it provides while allowing salmon to recover at record rates. With the deadline to respond to Judge Simon’s court order looming for ratepayers, last month, Reps. Newhouse, McMorris-Rodgers, and Herrera Beutler responded to a letter from U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and others opposing H.R. 3144. You can read the full text of the legislation here.
03.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after Premera Blue Cross, a major health plan provider in the Pacific Northwest, announced that – as a result of the federal tax cuts Congress approved in December of 2017 – the company will be investing $250 million to stabilize the individual market, improve care for behavioral health issues, and support health care providers and patients in rural areas: “In Central Washington, families have continued to face rising healthcare premiums and deductibles, and the number of insurance plans continues to dwindle due to the Affordable Care Act,” said Rep. Newhouse. “In addition to more jobs and higher paychecks for hard-working taxpayers, I am pleased to see that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has allowed Premera to invest in our local communities. This investment will ensure that everyone in Washington, including those in rural areas like the 4th District, has access to health care and ensure that there will be no counties that lack coverage options.” According to Premera, the changes to the corporate tax system implemented through the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act have resulted in a refund that allows the company to address critical health care needs. Premera will focus the investments to address three key areas: Customers and market stability: Premera has guaranteed that all counties in Washington sill have at least one health insurance choice, and federal tax savings are expected to trigger premium rebates for individual and small group customers. Improved access to health care in rural areas: Enhanced tele-health programs and other initiatives will work to attract and support health care providers in rural areas. Behavioral health: Premera will invest $40 million over the next five years to address addiction, childhood trauma, and homelessness.
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) announced the start of the fourth annual Congressional Art Competition for the 4th District, inviting all high school students in Central Washington to participate. Every spring, the Congressional Institute sponsors a nationwide high school visual art competition. Last year’s winner was Elly Teske from West Valley High School in Yakima for her entry, Heart Strings. The winning entry will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol, and this year’s winner will receive two airline tickets to visit Washington, D.C. and attend a reception hosted by the Congressional Institute. You can learn more about the competition here. “This is the fourth Congressional High School Art Competition for Central Washington, and I have been proud to show off our high school students’ artwork in the halls of Congress,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The entries we have received in previous years have shown a lot of talent, and I hope that students again take this opportunity to display their creativity. I encourage all 4th District high school artists to submit entries.” The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students in the 4th District. In addition to being displayed in the U.S. Capitol , the winning artwork is also featured on House.gov's Congressional Art Competition page. Additionally, honorable mention winners will be invited to have their art work hang in one of Rep. Newhouse’s district offices. The following is a summary of the Congressional Art Competition rules and submission deadlines: Artwork entered in the contest may be up to 26 inches by 26 inches, may be up to 4 inches in depth, and not weigh more than 15 pounds. If your artwork is selected as the winning piece, it must arrive framed and must still measure no larger than the above maximum dimensions. Paintings - including oil, acrylics, and watercolor Drawings - including pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, and markers (It is recommended that charcoal and pastel drawings be fixed.) Collages - must be two dimensional Prints - including lithographs, silkscreen, and block prints Mixed Media - use of more than two mediums such as pencil, ink, watercolor, etc. Computer-generated art Photography All entries must be original in concept, design and execution and may not violate any U.S. copyright laws. Any entry that has been copied from an existing photo or image (including a painting, graphic, or advertisement) that was created by someone other than the student is a violation of the competition rules and will not be accepted. Work entered must be in the original medium (that is, not a scanned reproduction of a painting or drawing). All artwork must be submitted by April 24th, 2018 to one of the District offices listed below. Please call to schedule a time for artwork to be dropped off or email Stephanie.Heinrich@mail.house.gov to coordinate a drop off. Tri-Cities District Office 3100 George Washington Suite 135 Richland, WA 99354 Phone: (509) 713-7374 Yakima District Office 402 E. Yakima Ave. Suite 445 Yakima, WA 98901 Phone: (509) 452-3243 North District: Okanogan and Douglas Counties Contact: Jessica.Mccarthy@mail.house.gov Twisp, WA 98856 Phone: (509) 433-7760 All entries will need to fill out the online release form by the artist here. The honorable mention winners will hang in district offices in Yakima and Richland for the same duration of time as the 1st place winner’s entry. There is no limit to the amount of students from one school that can submit a piece of art, but each student can only submit one entry. For additional information please contact Stephanie Heinrich at (202) 225-5816 or at Stephanie.Heinrich@mail.house.gov.
03.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on joining 106 Republican colleagues in a letter to President Trump expressing deep concern that broad, global tariffs on aluminum and steel imports could have negative, unintended consequences on U.S. businesses and consumers: “Trade supports jobs in Central Washington, and 40 percent of jobs in our state are tied to international trade,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Tariffs are essentially taxes on trade that are passed on to American businesses and consumers, resulting in higher prices. As recently as 2016, Washington state produced and exported $7 billion worth of food and agricultural goods, making us one of the largest exporters of food and agriculture in the U.S. The success of our state and region’s economy is tied to effective trade relationships with reliable partners who purchase our goods. I support targeting unfair trade practices of bad actors, but setting off a back and forth through broad, global tariffs can have unintended consequences that are harmful for economies like Central Washington’s. I want to work with the Administration to ensure that our flourishing export economy in Washington and the jobs that depend on trade are not disrupted by retaliatory tariffs on goods we produce at home and sell abroad.” Click here to read the letter sent today to President Trump.
03.05.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on the passing of today’s deadline for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. In September of 2017, President Trump announced that the DACA program would wind down by March 5, 2018. Federal courts have since intervened and allowed the renewal of existing DACA permits while the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals reviews the White House decision to wind down the program. “I am disappointed that Congress has failed to implement a legislative solution for DACA recipients by the President’s deadline,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I advocated for Congress to act quickly so that DACA beneficiaries would not be left in uncertainty. Today’s deadline, marked by inaction, is a bitter disappointment to every DACA beneficiary who has worked and hoped for urgent action. 18,000 DACA recipients in Washington state find themselves in continuous legal limbo, and I urge my colleagues to come together to give them certainty. Just because federal courts are allowing existing permits to be renewed does not mean that Congress should continue to delay and be subjected to demands from the extremes in this debate. The only solution that can pass Congress – and be signed into law by the President – is one that balances legal certainty for DACA recipients with securing the border.” Background: On January 25, 2018, Rep. Newhouse expressed public support for the White House’s announcement of an immigration framework that would provide a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers and $25 billion for border security. On January 18, 2018, Rep. Newhouse signed on as a cosponsor of H.R.4796, the Uniting and Securing America (USA) Act, a bipartisan bill introduced by Representatives Will Hurd (R-TX), Pete Aguilar (D-CA), and Jeff Denham (R-CA) that protects DACA recipients from deportation while implementing new commonsense border security measures through enhanced technology, manpower and physical barriers. The bill also addresses the immigration backlog that keeps families in limbo while advancing reforms in Central America to address the factors driving migration to the United States. On December 5, 2017, Rep. Newhouse and 33 other Republican House members urged Speaker Paul Ryan to put a permanent solution for DACA on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives before the end of the year. On November 9, 2017, Rep. Newhouse rallied 13 House Republicans to support ongoing negotiations led by House Republican leaders for a legislative solution for DACA beneficiaries the end of 2017 On September 27, 2017, Rep. Newhouse joined colleagues to request Acting Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security Elaine Duke to extend the administration’s DACA renewal deadline. In response to President Trump’s announcement on September 5, 2017 to wind down DACA, Rep. Newhouse worked with colleagues to urge action on a legislative solution before the end of 2017. On September 1, 2017, Rep. Newhouse joined colleagues urging Speaker Paul Ryan for a legislative solution for DACA beneficiaries. On April 6, 2017, Rep. Newhouse signed on as a cosponsor of H.R.1468, Recognizing America's Children Act, which would provide a path to legal status to children brought to the United States through no fault of their own. On January 30, 2017, Rep. Newhouse signed on as a cosponsor of H.R. 496, the Bar Removal of Individuals who Dream and Grow our Economy (BRIDGE) Act, which would provide temporary relief from deportation and provide work authorization to undocumented youth. On January 3, 2017, Rep. Newhouse signed on as a cosponsor of H.R.60, the Encourage New Legalized Immigrants to Start Training Act (ENLIST) Act, which would allow otherwise-qualified immigrants brought here by their parents through no fault of their own to earn legal status through military service.
02.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) sent a letter to U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue and U.S. Secretary of Interior Ryan Zinke to express support for a mineral withdrawal in the Methow Headwaters, and request that federal agencies move swiftly to complete the environmental review process currently underway: “The proposed withdrawal is entirely consistent with Department of Interior (DOI) and Department of Agriculture (USDA) initiatives to create a conservation stewardship legacy, promote agriculture and rural prosperity, and to be a good neighbor,” wrote Rep. Newhouse. “I wholeheartedly support your commitments to build robust, sustainable communities for generations to come, and I believe the Methow Headwaters mineral withdrawal will aid this effort in Central Washington.” Rep. Newhouse continued in the letter: “In a county that embraces resource development and has a long history of mining, it is widely recognized that this specific proposal for the Methow Valley has merit.” Rep. Newhouse requested that all necessary reviews and final recommendations be completed by the end of the required two-year period, by December 30, 2018. To read the entire letter, click here or see below: February 28, 2018 Dear Secretaries Perdue and Zinke: I am writing to express my support for a mineral withdrawal in the Methow Headwaters, which is located in my District, the 4th District of Washington. I respectfully request your agencies move swiftly to complete the environmental review process currently underway. I ask that all necessary reviews be completed by the end of the two-year segregation period, December 30, 2018. The proposed withdrawal is entirely consistent with Department of Interior (DOI) and Department of Agriculture (USDA) initiatives to create a conservation stewardship legacy, promote agriculture and rural prosperity, and to be a good neighbor. I wholeheartedly support your commitments to build robust, sustainable communities for generations to come, and I believe the Methow Headwaters mineral withdrawal will aid this effort in Central Washington. The Methow Valley lies in the northwestern portion of my District and serves as the eastern gateway to the North Cascades National Park. The area is known for its expansive scenic vistas, agriculture, fishing and hunting, significant acreage of public lands, year-round recreational opportunities, and rural character. There has been near unanimous and bipartisan support in the Valley for the Methow Headwaters mineral withdrawal. From the local Chamber of Commerce and more than 135 businesses to tribal nations, hunters and anglers, sportsmen groups, farmers, and current and former state and local elected officials, this proposal has gained broad-based support. In a county that embraces resource development and has a long history of mining, it is widely recognized that this specific proposal for the Methow Valley has merit. In December of 2016, the Department of the Interior initiated a two-year segregation period for a mineral withdrawal of the Methow Headwaters. During this period, your agencies are evaluating a proposed 20-year mineral withdrawal and must recommend final action by the end of 2018. It is with this in mind that I would like to specifically request the following of your agencies: The Department of Interior issue a Federal Register notice for the non-decisional public meeting required per Section 204 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act (FLMPA). The Bureau of Land Management’s (BLM) regulations under 43 CFR 2310 outline the process for meeting this statutory requirement under FLPMA. This public meeting must be held in order for the U.S. Forest Service’s mineral withdrawal recommendation to move through the review process at BLM and DOI. This meeting will provide the public with the opportunity to comment on the proposed action as well as have questions answered by agency personnel. I respectfully request the Department to publish a Public Meeting Notice as soon as possible. ​ The U.S. Forest Service complete the required environmental review and promptly submit a final recommendation for a 20-year mineral withdrawal of the 340,079-acre Methow Headwaters region to the Bureau of Land Management. I understand the U.S. Forest Service recently completed the scoping period and received overwhelming public support for the mineral withdrawal. The Department of Interior review the final recommendation by the U.S. Forest Service before the end of the two-year segregation period, December 30, 2018. I look forward to working with the Departments of Interior and Agriculture to move the Methow Headwaters mineral withdrawal forward this year. There is a critical deadline of December 30, 2018, and key milestones to meet along the way. I welcome the opportunity to work closely with your respective offices on this important and widely supported effort. On behalf of Washington State’s 4th Congressional District, thank you for your leadership on this issue. I look forward to your response. Sincerely,
02.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Dan Newhouse (WA-04), and Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03) released this statement following a letter from Senator Murray and others opposing bipartisan legislation (H.R. 3144) to protect the Columbia and Snake River dams and help aid in fish recovery efforts. “It’s unthinkable that Seattle Democrats are putting politics over science when it comes to improving fish recovery efforts. What’s more, they are making Washington state ratepayers pick up the tab—with an estimated price tag of $40 million in higher electricity rates from increasing spill this year alone. Further, their letter states that every alternative must be looked at, which includes the breaching of the Snake River dams. Millions of dollars have been spent studying these dams and improvements have been made to improve fish survival rates, with recent return rates being 97% and above. They claim to support clean renewable energy, while simultaneously working to destroy hydropower, Washington state’s largest source of carbon-neutral, clean energy. Breaching the dams, which provide critical benefits for communities in our state, should not even be an option. “The Biological Opinion is the result of years of collaborative work between President Barack Obama’s administration, Washington and other Pacific Northwest states, sovereign Northwest tribes, and other local stakeholders with direct knowledge and expertise in mitigation and recovery efforts. Rejecting the BiOp only hurts the people of Washington state and sets us back decades in our fight to protect fish and support clean energy.”NOTE: Read more about Reps. McMorris Rodgers, Newhouse, and Herrera Beutler’s legislation here.
02.14.2018	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) participated in an oversight hearing at the House Committee on Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water, Power and Oceans titled, "The State of the Nation’s Water and Power Infrastructure." This week, the Trump administration released its infrastructure plan, which included a Department of Interior proposal to expedite the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) title transfer process. Rep. Newhouse’s Q&A with Charles Freeman, District Manager of Kennewick Irrigation District (KID) in Kennewick, WA, focused on the proposal, as well as additional proposals that could create a path forward for local water users like KID to take control of their operations. Click here to watch the Q&A between Rep. Newhouse and Kennewick Irrigation District on streamlining title transfer and water projects Excerpts from Q&A: Rep. Newhouse: “All of us know that earlier this week, the Trump Administration released its infrastructure plan, which included in it an Interior proposal to expedite the Bureau of Reclamation’s title transfer process. And I just want to say that I for one want to see this proposal and similar proposals like the one that Chairman Lamborn has put forward as really a positive path forward for local water users like the KID - at least I hope you see that in your estimation as well – to really take control of their operations and be able to get some relief from a broken federal bureaucracy.” Rep. Newhouse continued: “I have been an advocate and continue to be for streamlined water projects and that development process that was created for the Army Corps of Engineers – it was in 2014 through the [Water Resources Reform and Development Act] bill – I think would be a good idea to be adopt for the Bureau of Reclamation as well. Members on both sides of the aisle supported that concept, yet some of my colleagues continue to argue that the Reclamation projects don’t merit the same kind of streamlining.” Click here to view the entire Q&A between Rep. Newhouse and Charles Freeman, District Manager of Kennewick Irrigation District. Background: Rep. Newhouse and Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) have introduced H.R. 4419, Bureau of Reclamation and Bureau of Indian Affairs Water Project Streamlining Act of 2017, to streamline the Bureau of Reclamation’s and Bureau of Indian Affairs’ environmental planning and study process for new water projects and to authorize the next phase of the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan. The bill would apply the same streamlined water project development process used by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers under the Water Resources Reform Development Act of 2014 to the Bureau of Reclamation and to the Bureau of Indian Affairs in order to facilitate the construction of new or expanded surface water, storage, infrastructure, and recycling projects. H.R. 4419 broadens the legislation to include additional surface water storage projects, water infrastructure projects, rural water projects, water recycling, and Title XVI water projects. The legislation authorizes Phase III of the Yakima River Basin Integrated Water Resource Management Plan, an initiative to better accommodate the water needs of the agricultural community, conservationists, residents, and other stakeholders in the Yakima River Basin region. The U.S. Department of the Interior recently transmitted a proposal to Reclamation Title Transfer and Non-Federal Infrastructure Incentivization Act. The proposal mirrors language of H.R. 3281, the “Reclamation Title Transfer and Non-Federal Infrastructure Incentivization Act,” introduced by Rep. Doug Lamborn (R-CO), which was included in the Trump administration’s infrastructure plan. H.R. 3281 streamlines the process of transferring select BOR projects or facilities to local water users in order to incentivize new non-federal investment in water infrastructure and afford more efficient management of water and water-related facilities.
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018. “The legislation that was agreed to in the House and the Senate essentially writes a blank check to enable the federal government to continue to accumulate debt. I have been a vocal proponent of addressing the federal government’s out-of-control spending, and as the former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff warned, our growing debt is the greatest threat to our national security. We must find ways to rein in our national debt,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The people of the 4th Congressional District demand better and expect their representatives to promote fiscal responsibility, not advance policies that borrow over $1 million a minute. “While there are many provisions within the bill that I support, such as providing the critical funding that our troops and our military deserve and the extension of funding for Community Health Centers, the House of Representatives has already passed legislation doing so. This package simply does not address important priorities for Central Washington.” Background: The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 provides a raise in discretionary spending caps that is larger than the last three raises combined. It suspends the debt limit without spending controls, and it retroactively extends dozens of tax credits and deductions – effectively undermining the historic comprehensive and simplified tax reform that Congress passed with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The House passed all 12 Appropriations bills for Fiscal Year 2018, and the Senate has yet to consider them. Congress cannot continue to fund the government in short spurts or with large spending packages that do not responsibly address America’s crippling debt. On February 6, 2018, Rep. Newhouse voted in support of a Continuing Resolution to fund the government through March 23, 2018, while fully funding the Department of Defense for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2018. The legislation, which was approved in the House of Representatives, also provided a two-year extension of funding for Community Health Centers. Additionally, in November, Rep. Newhouse voted for passage of the CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act, which would extend funding for the Community Health Center Fund (CHCF) for two additional years. ###
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to approve the passage of a Continuing Resolution to fund the federal government through March 23, 2018, while fully funding the Department of Defense for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2018. The legislation also provides a two-year extension on funding for Community Health Care Centers. “I supported this legislation to keep the federal government operating and provide a full fiscal year of funding for our troops, giving certainty to the defenders of our nation,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This legislation authorizes two years of now-expired funding for Community Health Centers, which provide critical services to communities across the country, including in Central Washington. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to act on this bill to keep the federal government open and support our community health centers.” Today, Rep. Newhouse rallied with colleagues on Capitol Hill to support funding for Community Health Centers. In November, Rep. Newhouse voted for passage of the CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act, which would extend funding for the Community Health Center Fund (CHCF) for two additional years. This funding is used at federally qualified health centers, which provide an array of comprehensive health services. The CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act would also provide funding for Teaching Health Centers – three of which are in Central Washington – to train primary care doctors and retain them at community-based clinics in rural areas. The Senate has yet to take up this bill.
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) joined bipartisan and bicameral colleagues to rally at the U.S. Capitol with advocates from around the country in support of extending funding for Community Health Centers (CHCs). Community Health Center funding expired on September 30, 2017. Tonight, the House of Representatives is expected to vote on a Continuing Resolution that includes two years of funding for CHCs. CLICK HERE TO WATCH REP. NEWHOUSE URGE FUNDING FOR COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS Transcript: I certainly want to thank my colleague Elise Stefanik from the State of New York for helping to put this together today as well my other colleagues, those that are here, and all of those who support the funding of Community Health Centers. You know I come from the central part of the State of Washington – the real Washington. And just like everybody else, these Community Health Centers they provide critical health services. Now get this: in Central Washington, almost three hundred thousand people depend on these Community Health Centers. You know what that is? That’s almost forty percent of my constituents. This is a big deal in our part of the country just like it is everywhere else. But when I think about the need for these health centers and the funding that they so desperately need, I want to put it into personal perspective. One of my constituents, a young lady – I say that very lovingly – by the name of Barbara Johnston, she realized that she was going blind. She suffers from macular degeneration, which some of you are familiar with. So she could no longer read the numbers on her prescription bottles to know when they’re expiring to see when they need refilling. She needed help. Especially because they were blood pressure medications. She didn’t have time to waste. So who comes to the rescue? Yakima Neighborhood Health Services, which is a federally-funded Community Health Center. They connected Barbara with a care coordinator to help her with her vision problems to make sure that she had what she needed to manage her blood pressure to prevent a stroke. So that’s just one story. We need to make sure that we can continue those success stories all around the country. This is why it is so critically important. This is not just some faceless federal bureaucracy. We’re talking about people’s lives here. Lots of people’s lives. So that’s why I thank all of you for being here this morning, showing your support, helping to urge Congress to do the right thing. And with that help, we will be successful. We will get long-term funding for Community Health Centers. Thank you very much. Background: Rep. Newhouse is a cosponsor of the CHIME Act -- bipartisan legislation to extend the Community Health Centers Fund for five years. This legislation has 218 bipartisan cosponsors. On Friday, Rep. Newhouse joined a group of 105 Republican House Members in a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan, urging him to include Community Health Center funding in any legislation that will be passing Congress and sent to the President. Following this effort, it was announced that the government funding bill being considered in the House today will include a two-year extension of Community Health Center funding. In November, Rep. Newhouse voted for passage of the CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act, which would extend funding for the Community Health Center Fund (CHCF) for two additional years. This funding is used at federally qualified health centers, which provide an array of comprehensive health services. The CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act would also provide funding for Teaching Health Centers – three of which are in Central Washington – to train primary care doctors and retain them at community-based clinics in rural areas. The Senate has yet to take up this bill.
02.02.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on the declassification and release of a memo on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) prepared by the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence majority. “When I read the memo, I was alarmed by methods and information used to conduct surveillance of an American citizen,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I support President Trump’s decision to make the memo available to the public so that the American people can read this information themselves. Americans must be able to trust that the FISA process is above reproach. Today’s release is not about the Special Counsel’s investigation, but it is about ensuring trust that the FBI and DOJ – whose professionals conduct critical work every day to protect our country – are acting at all times with the highest level of discretion when vetting information used to conduct domestic surveillance.” Background: Rep. Newhouse signed a letter urging the memo’s release with 65 Members of Congress that was sent to House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes (R-CA) on January 19th.
02.01.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement in response to the Trump Administration’s decision to delay the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule for two years: “The Trump Administration’s decision to delay this onerous Obama-era regulation will give farmers and our agriculture community the certainty they deserve,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This is the right step to take as the Administration continues to work to repeal WOTUS – which would have expanded federal control over waterways never intended to be covered by the Clean Water Act – once and for all. We must continue to rein in a bloated bureaucracy and cut the rules, regulations, and red tape that threaten economic growth and private property.”
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s first State of the Union address: “Tonight’s message was clear: United as a people, Americans can succeed in solving the challenges we face," said Rep. Newhouse. "United in purpose, workers and families can realize the American dream. President Trump’s first State of the Union speech laid out a positive vision for the future of our country. The President’s leadership is critical on many important matters facing our country, and his willingness to support a legislative solution for DACA recipients and to secure our borders creates a window of opportunity for action on immigration. The President rightly pointed out that the passage of historic tax reform is already fostering economic growth and opportunity for American workers and middle class families. The President acknowledged that the institutions of the family and religion stand at the center of our lives more than the government ever could, and I applaud his support for our most fundamental freedoms. He made the case that the opioid crisis afflicting families demands action. President Trump laid out his administration’s commitment to the most important duty there is: strongly defending the United States and American citizens. When America is strong, unified, and proud, we can accomplish anything.”
01.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on the White House’s announcement of an immigration framework that would provide a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers and $25 billion for border security: “President Trump’s announcement gives Congress an outline for a legislative solution that provides certainty for Dreamers and secures the border – a compromise that meets key requirements of both sides,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I applaud the President’s leadership in offering a plan that brings us closer than ever to a solution that gives certainty for Dreamers – including 18,000 DACA recipients in Washington state – and secures our borders. I look forward to continuing to work with the President and seeing legislation signed into law.”
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to approve the passage of a Continuing Resolution to fund the federal government through February 8th, 2018: “Approving this Continuing Resolution reopens the federal government and allows our men and women in uniform to receive their paychecks on time,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This legislation fully funds the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP)—which provides health care to more than 60,000 children in Washington state—for six years, the longest reauthorization in CHIP’s history. The fruitless attempt to shut down the government failed to make progress on a negotiated solution for DACA, and I worry it may have in fact harmed progress. Now that Democrats have joined Republicans to fund the federal government, Congress can get back to negotiating and garnering support for a legislative solution, requested by the President, which gives certainty to DACA beneficiaries and provides border security.”
01.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today spoke on the House floor regarding the shutdown of the federal government. Rep. Newhouse also cosponsored legislation introduced by Rep. Martha McSally (R-AZ) that will ensure that our troops receive their paychecks. Rep. Newhouse also sent a letter to the Chief Administrative Officer of the U.S. House of Representatives to request that his own pay be withheld pay until the government has reopened. WATCH NEWHOUSE ADDRESS GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN ON HOUSE FLOOR Transcript: I rise in support of restoring a fully-functioning federal government. I along with almost all of my colleagues supported the Continuing Resolution keeping the federal government open, funding our military, reauthorizing the Children’s Health Insurance Program. Senate Democrats rejected that solution and voted against keeping the federal government open, fully funding CHIP—against giving certainty to the more than 60,000 low-income children in my own State of Washington. Our military professionals are working to reduce the impacts to national security due to the government shutdown. Secretary Mattis himself is giving shutdown guidance to the men and women in uniform, saying: “Steady as she goes – hold the line. I know the nation can count on you. Stay alert.” His message speaks to the admirable professionalism of our troops. These men and women deserve their pay; their families should not have to worry about their paychecks. In no way does shutting down the federal government serve them or us. In my district, important work—like the Hanford cleanup…and our National Laboratory must continue. Today, I find myself, as well as many, frustrated. As a supporter of the President’s call for Congress to act to work on a bipartisan solution on DACA, let’s reopen the government and continue our negotiations.
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) voted today to support passage of legislation he co-sponsored, H.R. 4712, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act. In remarks delivered on the House floor, Rep. Newhouse stated that the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act “would ensure that children who survive an abortion – or attempted abortion – are given proper medical treatment. I am proud to cosponsor this bill to ensure that babies born alive are transported and admitted to a hospital immediately following emergency care. As a Christian and a father of two, I hold maintaining the sanctity of life as my highest priority. The House of Representatives voted to pass this legislation in the 114th Congress, but it was met with an unresponsive Senate. I will vote again to support this bill to hold healthcare providers accountable, protect and empower mothers, and help ensure that these innocent children are provided the same medical care that any other newborn would receive. I remain hopeful that, this time around, we can send this important legislation to the President’s desk to be signed into law.” Click here to WATCH Newhouse speak in support of the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act Key provisions of H.R. 4712, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act: Requires medical care for children born alive following an abortion or attempted abortion Amends criminal law so that when an abortion or attempted abortion results in a child born alive, health care practitioners must: Exercise the same degree of care to preserve the life and health of the child as reasonably provided to any other child born alive at the same gestational age Ensure that such child is immediately admitted to a hospital Healthcare practitioners or employees with knowledge of any failure to provide medical care must report it to law enforcement Any violation of the life preservation or reporting provisions in the bill can be punished by up to 5 years in prison, a criminal fine, or both If an individual intentionally performs or attempts to perform an overt act that kills a child born alive that person is subject to prosecution for murder The bill also protects the mother of any child born alive from prosecution and provides the mother with a civil cause of action against an individual violating the bill’s requirements Identical legislation passed the House in the 114th Congress on a bipartisan basis by a 248 to 177 vote Click here to view the bill text.
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today released the following statement after voting for H.R. 195 – Extension of Continuing Appropriations Act which continues funding for the federal government through February 16th, 2018. “Congress must continue to fulfill our responsibility to provide for vital priorities such as paying our troops and a six-year, long-term reauthorization to fully fund the expired Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), which provides care for 60,000 low-income children in Washington state,” said Rep. Newhouse. “CHIP expired in September. This legislation not only provides the longest extension in the program’s history, but it is fully paid for and increases every year for the next six years. I have already voted in support of renewing the expired CHIP program twice, and I voted to support it again a third time. As a strong supporter of a negotiated legislative solution for DACA beneficiaries, I have continuously pushed for a solution as soon as possible before the March deadline for DACA, and I will continue to do so. I feel the palpable frustration of waiting until the last minute to address multiple issues that have real consequences for people. I supported this legislation today to fulfill responsibilities that are time sensitive, but expired in September. Today’s vote was about ensuring that children in Washington state continue to have access to health care, and I call on my colleagues in the Senate support passage.”
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on cosponsoring the Uniting and Securing America (USA) Act, a bipartisan bill introduced by Representatives Will Hurd (R-TX), Pete Aguilar (D-CA), and Jeff Denham (R-CA) that protects DACA recipients from deportation while implementing new commonsense border security measures through enhanced technology, manpower and physical barriers. The bill also addresses the immigration backlog that keeps families in limbo while advancing reforms in Central America to address the factors driving migration to the United States. “This legislation, which provides a permanent legislative solution for DACA recipients, accomplishes one of the main goals the President laid out last week by securing the border,” said Rep. Newhouse. “During last week’s bipartisan meeting, the President called on Congress ‘to sit down and negotiate and to compromise’ and ‘to get something done in good faith’ on DACA. This bipartisan legislation does just that by addressing some of the President’s priorities for a final deal. This week, I sat down with the Secretary of Homeland Security and Administration officials to find a way to balance giving DACA recipients certainty and securing our border, and I pledged my support to work with my colleagues and the Administration to get this done. “For months, I have been urging all sides to work together in good faith. The clock is ticking. One of the greatest frustrations I have while serving in Congress is the tendency to wait until the very last minute to address urgent problems that are affecting real people. Once again, I call on my colleagues on both sides of the aisle – we must come together to negotiate a deal that addresses the concerns of both sides and provide certainty to the 800,000 young people who remain in jeopardy.” Background: The USA Act is a narrow, bipartisan DACA-border solution introduced in the House with 50 original co-sponsors that: Offers a permanent legislative solution for young immigrants who were brought to the United States as children. Achieves operational control of the border with enhanced technology, manpower and physical barriers [such as levees and fencing] Reduces the immigration system backlog that keeps families in limbo for years Addresses the root causes of unlawful immigration by advancing reforms in Central America Click here to read the bill text.
01.17.2018	WASHINGTON – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) announced that he has nominated 13 students across Central Washington for consideration to attend U.S. military academies including West Point, the Naval Academy, the Merchant Marine Academy, and the Air Force Academy. The nominations followed an interview process that included Rep. Newhouse’s military academy advisory board, and the final determination for admittance will be made by the respective academies. The honor of attending a service academy comes with the obligation and commitment to serve in the military for a minimum of five years upon graduation. “These individuals have worked hard to achieve academic and personal success in our community, and I am proud to nominate each one for consideration to attend one of our nation’s prestigious Military Service Academies,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I wish each applicant the very best as they continue the application process and strive to serve our country in uniform. I am grateful for the work of my nomination board to review applicants and make these recommendations.” U.S. Military Academy at West Point Nominees Margaret Ballew of Selah Margaret is a senior of Selah High School and the daughter of Donald and Kristin Ballew. Curtis Clute of Prosser Curtis is a senior of Prosser Senior High School and the son of Mitchell Clute and Susanna Pennington. Daniela Mendoza of West Richland Daniela is a senior of Hanford High School and the daughter of Rodolfo Mendoza and Marisela Linares-Mendoza. Clayton Porcaro of Richland Clayton is a graduate of Hanford High School and the son of Paul and Melissa Porcaro. U.S. Naval Academy Nominees Margaret Ballew of Selah Margaret is a senior of Selah High School and the daughter of Donald and Kristin Ballew. Daniel Cooke of Kennewick Daniel is a senior of Kamiakin High School and the son of Steve Cooke and Kathleen Clary-Cooke Jeffery Hesslink of Moses Lake Jeffrey is a senior of Yorktown High School in Arlington, Virginia and the son of U.S. Navy Captain Trenton Hesslink and Heather Hesslink. David Jimenez of Mabton David is a senior of Sunnyside Senior High School and the son of Jose and Maria Jimenez. Adam Weissenfels of Richland Adam is a senior of Richland High School and the son of Bob and Kelly Wiessenfels. U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Nominee Tristan Barnett of Kennewick Tristan is a graduate of Kamiakin High School and the son of Mikal and Katheryn Barnett. U.S. Air Force Academy Nominees Margaret Ballew of Selah Margaret is a senior of Selah High School and the daughter of Donald and Kristin Ballew. Ethan Chapin of Benton City Ethan is a graduate of Kiona-Benton High School and the son of Nick Chapin and Cassandra Kwaiser. Luke Gorham of Kennewick Luke is a homeschooled high school senior and the son of Aaron and Karen Gorham. Nathan Haggard of Richland Nathan is a senior of Richland High School and the son of Bradley and Patricia Haggard. Jacobe Lee of Richland Jacobe is a senior of Richland High School and the son of Jason and Heather Lee. Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. For more information on nominations, contact Rep. Newhouse’s Tri-Cities office at 3100 George Washington Way #135 Richland, (509) 713-7374.
01.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) sent a letter requesting Washington State Governor Jay Inslee to issue a proclamation declaring a state of emergency for Yakima County given the continued degradation of conditions near Union Gap at Rattlesnake Ridge. In the letter, Rep. Newhouse pledged to work with the Governor to ensure that federal assistance and resources to the Yakima Valley can be provided as quickly as possible following a potentially catastrophic landslide. Rep. Newhouse stated in the letter: “As you may know, the Valley is home to over 200,000 residents as well as the thousands of commuters to and from the area. Included within the affected area is the Yakima River, which provides invaluable resources to the region from recreation to farmland irrigation. Also, Interstate 82 (I-82), a vital transportation artery, is in the direct path for those who live in the region and who use I-82 on a daily basis. Any disruption to the Valley’s transportation or water infrastructure poses devastating effects for the State and the region’s overall economy.” Newhouse continued in the letter: “As we continue to see reports of falling rock and land movement of over one and a half feet per week, there should be great concern for the residents’ well-being in the area. I was pleased to see on January 10, 2018 that Yakima County and the City of Union Gap made the decision in taking the precautionary steps by declaring a disaster area because of the deteriorating conditions.” Newhouse continued in the letter: “I strongly encourage that you take these considerations into account and not delay your state of emergency declaration for Yakima County. Additionally, this declaration is vital for any federal response that may be needed. Your declaration is critical to ensuring a quick emergency response and management of the site in the direct path of this potential landslide activity. I appreciate your effort for taking the time to visit the site and look forward to working with you on this matter.” Click here to read the entire letter to Governor Inslee. Additionally, on Saturday, January 13th, Rep. Newhouse will receive a briefing at the Yakima Valley Emergency Operations Center and tour the Rattlesnake Ridge site with local emergency management officials.
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after voting in favor of the House and Senate conference report on The Tax Cut and Jobs Act, which provides the first major reform to the federal tax code in 31 years: “As Republicans, we promised a unified plan to reduce the burden of taxes and government mandates on American families and businesses, and that is exactly what we have delivered,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Today, we passed the first major pro-growth, pro-family tax reform in 31 years. Doubling the standard deduction—which is used by eighty percent of filers in the Fourth Congressional District—and increasing the child tax credit will provide real relief for working families in Central Washington. Additionally, this bill is a win for small businesses and farmers by allowing them to immediately write off the full cost of new equipment and increasing those who are shielded from the unfair death tax which allows more family farms and small businesses to pass on the success of a lifetime of hard work to the next generation. We promised to remove the individual mandate, which is an unfair tax penalty that hits middle-income families in the Fourth District. With this major reform, that Obama-era burden will be removed once and for all.” WATCH: Rep. Newhouse Q&A with House Ways and Means Chairman on How Tax Reform Legislation Affects Central Washington In Washington State, 88% of taxpayers who pay the Obamacare individual mandate penalty tax make $75,000 or less: Click to see the percentage of taxpayers who pay Obamacare’s individual mandate penalty tax in each county in the Fourth Congressional District: Adams, Benton, Douglas, Franklin, Grant, Okanogan, Walla Walla, Yakima. Click here for recent tax return information, including the average itemized deductions of filers, in Adams, Benton, Douglas, Franklin, Grant, Okanogan, Walla Walla, and Yakima counties. Congressional district tax return data available here. According to the House Committee on Ways and Means, a median income married-couple with 2 children in the Fourth Congressional District will receive a tax cut of $2,043. Fast facts on The Tax Cut and Jobs Act: Lowers individual tax rates for Americans to zero, 10%, 12%, 22%, 24%, 32%, 35% and 37% so people can keep more of the money they earn. Significantly increases the standard deduction to protect roughly double the amount of what Americans earn each year from taxes – from $6,350 to $12,000 and $12,000 to $24,000 for individuals and married couples, respectively. Expands Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $2,000 for single filers and married couples to help parents with the cost of raising children. The tax credit is fully refundable up to $1,400 and begins to phase out for families making over $400,000. Additionally, a credit of $500 will be available for families who are taking care of a non-child dependent such as a disabled grandparent who may need additional support. Preserves the Adoption Tax Credit. Preserves the home mortgage interest deduction for existing mortgages and maintains the home mortgage interest deduction for newly purchased homes up to $750,000 – providing tax relief to current and aspiring homeowners. Continues to allow Americans to write off cost of state and local property taxes up to $10,000. According to the Internal Revenue Service data, in 2014, 80.4% of residents of the Fourth Congressional District claimed the standard deduction when filing. Provides relief for Americans with expensive medical bills by expanding the medical expense deduction for 2017 and 2018 for medical expenses exceeding 7.5% of adjusted gross income, and rising to 10% beginning in 2019. Eliminates Obamacare’s individual mandate penalty tax. Provides support for graduate students by continuing to exempt the value of reduced tuition from taxes and the interest paid on student loans. To find out more please visit FairAndSimple.gop.
12.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) announced the winners of the Fourth Congressional District’s App Challenge, an app competition for K-12 students. Three Kennewick high school students of Tri-Tech Skills Center: Seth Florman, Damon Fuller, and Kyler Zimmerman, have been named the competition winners for their app named “Powerhouse,” which enables the user to take on the role of business owner of an energy company. These young men designed the app to illustrate an energy company’s responsibilities to communities and to draw attention to the challenges energy providers face when balancing production, operating expenses, and environmental decisions. You can see a preview of the app by clicking here. WATCH Rep. Newhouse speak on the floor of the U.S. House to congratulate the winners. Transcript of Rep. Newhouse’s remarks: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize three high school students from Kennewick, Washington as the winners of Washington’s Fourth District’s 2017 Congressional App Challenge. Seth Florman, Damon Fuller, and Kyler Zimmerman spent many hours creating and refining an app they named Powerhouse, which enables the user to take on the role of business owner of an energy company. These students designed the app to illustrate an energy company’s responsibilities to communities and to draw attention to the challenges energy providers face. Thank you to our panel of judges and to the engineers at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory who will be providing the winners with a tour of their great facility. The Congressional App Challenge highlights the value of computer science and coding, and I am proud to represent Central Washington, where schools and teachers are dedicated to encouraging students to excel in STEM education. This year, the Fourth Congressional District’s App Challenge had the highest number of entries since my office began participating in the contest, which is a testament to the creativity of our young people. I ask my colleagues to join me in congratulating Seth, Damon, and Kyler on their winning app, Powerhouse, and I look forward to their continued educational and professional success. Background: The winning app was selected by a panel of local judges and will receive a prize tour of Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. The winners will also share $250 in Amazon Web Services credits donated by Amazon for the challenge. The winning app will be featured on a video display in the U.S. Capitol building, as well as House.gov and the Congressional App Challenge website. The second place app, “Alone in the Forest,” was designed by Evan Fetterolf of Kennewick, Washington and Carlos Magana of Plymouth, Washington. The app teaches the user basic survival skills through a series of games. The third place app, “Hive Mind,” was designed by Talia Avery of Richland, Washington and William Burton of Kennewick, Washington. The app challenges the user to manage a beehive and demonstrate the challenges beekeepers face on a daily basis. The Congressional App Challenge (CAC) was created because Congress recognized that Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education skills are essential for economic growth and innovation, and that the U.S. has been falling behind on these fronts. According to the U.S. Department of Commerce, STEM occupations are projected to grow by 17% between 2008 and 2018, compared to 9.8% growth for non-STEM occupations. According to some estimates, the U.S. may be short as many as 3 million high-skilled workers by 2018. To maintain American competitiveness, it is crucial that the U.S. industry invest in our youth now and help them acquire necessary STEM-based skills. The CAC highlights and encourages students to pursue those skills. Last year’s Fourth District App Challenge winners, Tobias (Toby) Williams, Jamas Middleton, and Elijah Stiham, were also students at Tri-Tech Skills Center and won the Challenge for the app they designed called Trinity Complex.
12.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today laid a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Arlington National Cemetery in Arlington, Virginia. Arlington National Cemetery is the final resting place of more than 400,000 service members, veterans, and their families. “The Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Arlington National Cemetery is hallowed ground,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The Old Guard keeps 24-hour vigil over the site, 365 days per year to honor all American service members who have fallen but who have not been identified. I was honored to lay a wreath today on behalf of the people of the Fourth Congressional District. Especially during this holiday season, we pay our respects and demonstrate that we never forget the heroes who have fallen in defense of our nation.” Click here for more information on Arlington National Cemetery and the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. Click here for high resolution photos.
12.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after U.S. Secretary of U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke released the final report outlining recommendations he made to the President on some national monument designations under the Antiquities Act. “In June, I shared my concerns with Secretary Zinke and the administration that no modifications should be made to the Hanford Reach National Monument,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I am pleased that after today’s report by the Interior Department, this national treasure will continue to be open to public access for future generations to enjoy.” "The monument review was about hearing local voices and the people of Washington, along with Rep. Newhouse, made it clear where they stand,” said Sec. Zinke. “I'm grateful for their continued participation in the review and look forward to visiting Washington again sometime soon." Click here to view the June 30th letter sent to Secretary Zinke by the Congressional Western Caucus that includes Rep. Newhouse’s recommendation on the Hanford Reach National Monument. Background: President Clinton established the Hanford Reach National Monument in 2000, which includes the last free-flowing, non-tidal stretch of the Columbia River in the U.S., as well as a biologically diverse landscape and wide spectrum of scientific and historic objects. More than 10,000 years of human history are preserved throughout the monument and Hanford Reach is a treasure that merits the protection and preservation provided by its designation as a national monument. In July, Sec. Zinke announced that the protected status of the Hanford Reach National Monument was no longer under federal review, and that no alterations were to be made to the monument’s boundaries. The monuments were under review in accordance with President Donald J. Trump’s April 26, 2017, executive order.
12.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, 34 House Republicans, including several members of the Republican Main Street Caucus, sent a letter urging Speaker Paul Ryan to put a permanent solution for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives before the end of the year. Although the current DACA program is set to expire in March, about 22,000 DACA individuals were unable to renew their status this year, according to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Without a replacement legislative solution, more than 700,000 young people face an uncertain future in the United States. The letter was led by Scott Taylor (R-Va.), Dan Newhouse (R-Wash.), and members of the Republican Main Street Caucus. Click here to view the letter. “This letter shows many Republicans are serious about finding a permanent solution to solving the DACA issue as President Trump has urged Congress to do,” said U.S. Rep. Rodney Davis (R-Ill.), Chairman of the Republican Main Street Caucus. “However, we want to work with leadership to craft a solution that will pass, not play political games or hold government funding hostage like some of our Democrat counterparts. I appreciate the leadership of Main Street members Taylor, Newhouse, and Denham because it’s important we address this issue now, rather than later.” “Dreamers did what their government asked them to do. They came out of the shadows, paid a fee, passed a background check, and got a job or enrolled in school. They are making real contributions to the only country they have ever known to be home. Congress has an obligation to resolve this issue, and it needs to happen now,” said Rep. Jeff Denham (R-Calif.). “For thousands of DACA recipients across the nation, including 17,000 in my home state, every day without a legislative solution brings more uncertainty about their future. DACA recipients should not be a political football. Rather than delaying until next year or pushing unrealistic partisan legislation that has no hope of being signed into law by the president, the right thing to do is for Congress to come together on a deal to give these young people certainty,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Now is our time in Congress to lead with justice, mercy, and compassion for DACA recipients. We need to create, negotiate, and pass a law protecting those in this stateless limbo which should also contain disincentives to future illegal immigration and increased border security measures. There are DACA recipients who are as American as myself. Americans do not punish children for their parents' sins,” said Rep. Taylor.
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) testified at a House Natural Resources Committee Subcommittee on Water, Power and Oceans hearing on legislation sponsored by Rep. Newhouse and Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA), H.R. 4419, Bureau of Reclamation and Bureau of Indian Affairs Water Project Streamlining Act. H.R. 4419 would streamline the Bureau of Reclamation’s and Bureau of Indian Affairs’ environmental planning and study process for new water projects and authorize the next phase of the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan. The bill would apply the same streamlined water project development process used by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers under the Water Resources Reform Development Act of 2014 to the Bureau of Reclamation and to the Bureau of Indian Affairs in order to facilitate the construction of new or expanded surface water, storage, infrastructure, and recycling projects. H.R. 4419 broadens the legislation to include additional surface water storage projects, water infrastructure projects, rural water projects, water recycling, and Title XVI water projects. The legislation authorizes Phase III of the Yakima River Basin Integrated Water Resource Management Plan, an initiative to better accommodate the water needs of the agricultural community, conservationists, residents, and other stakeholders in the Yakima River Basin region. Click here to watch Rep. Newhouse testify in support of legislation authorizing the third phase of the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan Transcript of Rep. Newhouse’s testimony: Thank you, Chairman Lamborn, Ranking Member Huffman, as well as Members of the Subcommittee for inviting me to testify before you today on H.R. 4419, the “Bureau of Reclamation and Bureau of Indian Affairs Water Project Streamlining Act.” This legislation exhibits years of hard work, determination, and certainly collaboration. I’d like to begin by extending my sincere thanks to Chairman Bishop and his staff, as well as Speaker Ryan and his staff, for working with me to help move this legislation forward. I’d also like to thank my colleague, Congressman Reichert, for his continued partnership on these efforts. This legislation is not only critical for our respective Districts in Washington state, but also Districts across the nation, particularly those in the West. As you know, water is vital for the livelihoods and the prosperity of communities in the western United States. These communities, including my constituents in Central Washington, know all too well the detrimental impacts of facing severe droughts and water shortages. In states where the Bureau of Reclamation and Bureau of Indian Affairs hold jurisdiction for the development of water projects, communities are left waiting due to the lack of a streamlined process. H.R. 4419 would apply the same streamlined water project development process used by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, that was established under the “Water Resources Reform Development Act of 2014,” or WRRDA, to BOR and BIA’s processes for surface water, storage, infrastructure, and recycling project developments. The WRRDA legislation passed through both chambers of Congress with overwhelming bipartisan support. My hope with this legislation is to achieve the same streamlined process for BOR and BIA that was developed for the Corps. This legislation also authorizes several key water development projects across the West, including projects in California, Kansas, Montana, and in my home state of Washington. One of these is the third phase of a vital effort in Central Washington, the Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project, or YRBWEP. The Yakima River Basin is one of the leading agricultural regions in Washington State as well as throughout the country. However, the demand for water in the region currently exceeds the resources available, especially during times of drought, which have hit the state especially hard in the past few years. Through years of tough and complex, but continued negotiations, the Yakima River Basin Plan is a model of collaboration that offers a solution to give water users more certainty, while also recognizing the concerns of conservationists and the various stakeholders in the Yakima Basin. I would be remiss if I didn’t acknowledge the collaborative group of stakeholders at the core of this vital effort. The YRBWEP Workgroup and its Implementation Committee are made up of local irrigation districts, environmental advocates, local elected officials, tribal leaders, state agency officials, conservation organizations, and water storage advocates. The fact that this diverse of a group can agree on much, let alone negotiate and collaborate on years of integrated water project development efforts, is nothing short of ground-breaking. I look forward to hearing testimony from one of the Implementation Committee’s own, Mr. Urban Eberhart, and I thank the Subcommittee for providing the opportunity for the Workgroup to share their model of success with the nation. It’s something that I can tell you I am very, very proud of. Mr. Chairman, H.R. 4419, the “Bureau of Reclamation and Bureau of Indian Affairs Water Project Streamlining Act” is a commonsense bill that reforms the current cumbersome and lengthy processes for water development efforts and provides a mechanism to build new water and infrastructure projects in Central Washington as well as across the West. This legislation will provide the next major step to addressing our water crisis in the West. I thank the Subcommittee for allowing me to testify today, and I certainly look forward to working with you to get this bill signed into law. Mr. Urban Eberhart of Ellensburg, Secretary/Manager of Kittitas Reclamation District and a farmer, testified at the hearing on behalf of The Yakima Basin Working Group in support of the legislation: “We are tremendously grateful to Representative Dan Newhouse and Representative Dave Reichert for their tireless work in supporting the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan and for introducing this legislation. They understand how important the Integrated Plan is to the Yakima River Basin, the State of Washington, and the Yakama Nation, and have been looking for ways to move the authorization for the Integrated Plan forward through the House and Senate, then on to the President’s desk.” Click here to watch Mr. Eberhart’s full testimony. Click here for additional witness testimony and to watch the full hearing.
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) today joined Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) to recognize Hanford workers for completing cleanup that began in 2009 on a high-hazard waste site, known as the 618-10 Burial Ground. According to the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), the burial ground once contained some of the most hazardous waste on the nuclear reservation in southeast Washington. The Congressional members commended this milestone and the employees who worked diligently to complete this project, while urging federal officials, including Energy Secretary Rick Perry, to continue the Department’s work on a long list of cleanup projects on the Central Plateau that involves about 1,000 waste sites, 500 facilities, and contaminated soil and groundwater. Earlier this year, the members urged the Trump Administration to provide strong funding for Hanford cleanup in order to reduce risks and long-term costs, meet Tri-Party Agreement milestones, and protect the health and safety of the Tri-Cities community, as it puts together its annual budget requests. “I applaud the thousands of men and women who show up to Hanford every day and who made this milestone possible,” said Sen. Murray. “They are carrying out critical work, and in turn, the federal government must always fulfill its obligation to ensure workers and the entire Tri-Cities community have the resources they need to continue cleanup in a safe, efficient manner that leads to everyone’s ultimate goal of this land being restored to its natural state.” “Cleaning up the 618-10 burial ground was a massive undertaking. The Energy Department’s Richland Office has done an incredible job of decontaminating, demolishing, removing waste and remediating the river corridor,” said Sen. Cantwell. “While this is an important milestone, the Hanford cleanup project still remains one of the largest cleanup projects in the world. I will continue to fight to make sure progress continues at Hanford and the Energy Department lives up to the commitment to cleanup this waste.” "The accomplishment of this cleanup milestone is a testament to the commitment of workers of Hanford and the greater Tri-Cities community,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This success is an important reminder that a post-cleanup future is in sight for our community, and continued progress requires the federal government to fulfill its legal and moral obligation to finish the job.” Additional background: The 618-10 Burial Ground and two adjacent waste sites, about six miles north of the City of Richland, was one of the most challenging nuclear waste cleanup projects within DOE-Richland Operation’s mission. This 7.5-acre burial ground was used to discard radioactive waste created in the 300 Area, which was the center of Hanford’s radiological research and fuel fabrication activities during plutonium production in the 1950s and 1960s. As a result, it contained some of the most hazardous waste at Hanford. In 2009, DOE-Richland Operations began work to identify and characterize the waste and remediation activities began in 2011. Hanford workers removed 94 vertical pipe units which were buried more than 20 feet below ground; retrieved 2,201 contaminated 55-gallon drums; and excavated more than 305,000 tons of overburden and contaminated soil from the 316-4 and 600-63 waste sites, adjacent to the 618-10 Burial Ground. In total, more than 512,000 tons of radioactive contaminated soil and debris was removed from the 618-10 Burial Ground. With the hazardous waste removed, all that remains to be done is backfill the area and plant native vegetation to restore the area to its natural state. The Tri-Party Agreement milestone to complete this work is September 30, 2018. The Congressional members have consistently advocated for sufficient funding in DOE-Richland Operation’s budget to support the completion of the 618-10 Burial Ground.
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) introduced H.R. 4419, Bureau of Reclamation and Bureau of Indian Affairs Water Project Streamlining Act of 2017 to streamline the Bureau of Reclamation’s and Bureau of Indian Affairs’ environmental planning and study process for new water projects and to authorize the next phase of the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan. The bill would apply the same streamlined water project development process used by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers under the Water Resources Reform Development Act of 2014 to the Bureau of Reclamation and to the Bureau of Indian Affairs in order to facilitate the construction of new or expanded surface water, storage, infrastructure, and recycling projects. H.R. 4419 broadens the legislation to include additional surface water storage projects, water infrastructure projects, rural water projects, water recycling, and Title XVI water projects. The legislation authorizes Phase III of the Yakima River Basin Integrated Water Resource Management Plan, an initiative to better accommodate the water needs of the agricultural community, conservationists, residents, and other stakeholders in the Yakima River Basin region. “I am grateful to Speaker Paul Ryan and House Natural Resource Committee Chairman Rob Bishop for working with me and Rep. Dave Reichert to craft this legislation that streamlines the process for new water infrastructure projects and authorizes the next phase of the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Updating and modernizing our water supply infrastructure is critical to meet the current needs and future growth of communities across the nation. The Yakima Basin Plan is a national model for collaborative water infrastructure planning, taking into consideration the needs of agriculture, conservationists, residents, and a diverse group of stakeholders. We need to get this done.” “After years of discussion with local stakeholders, I am proud that we have finally come together on a forward-thinking plan that will work to protect the future economic health of the Yakima Basin and the surrounding regions. It does so by providing the water needed for our agricultural, irrigation, environmental, and tribal interests; local businesses; and communities to thrive,” said Rep. Reichert. “There is more work to be done to perfect this plan. I am committed to achieving a final product that will give agricultural producers the confidence they need to continue operating and expanding in the area, while also addressing the concerns of conservationists and local residents. I look forward to continued work with Congressman Newhouse and the Yakima Basin Integrated Water Resource Management Plan to move this legislation through Congress and to the President’s desk. ” “Rep. Newhouse has worked hard on this issue and it clearly shows he cares about the people of Washington state,” House Committee on Natural Resources Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) said. For the text of the legislation, click here. BACKGROUND: The Bureau of Reclamation and Bureau of Indian Affairs Surface Water Storage Streamlining Act requires the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) and the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) to accelerate studies and provide more accountability in the agency’s process to study the feasibility of new and or expanded surface water storage. The legislation would provide the same streamlined water project development process for BOR and BIA surface water storage projects that the “Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014” (WRRDA) gave to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps). The goal of the legislation is to reform the current cumbersome, lengthy process so that there is a mechanism to build new surface water storage projects in the West. The bill is designed to speed up BOR’s and BIA’s feasibility study process on surface water storage that “would be owned, funded, or operated” by the agency. The legislation also requires reporting and transparency requirements to provide agency justifications on why feasibility studies are not being completed in a timely manner. The bill closely resembles provisions included in WRRDA. The conference report for WRRDA, which includes nearly identical provisions for the Corps, passed both Houses in the 113th Congress (by a vote of 412-4 in the House and 91-7 in the Senate). Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project: In the 114th Congress, similar legislation authorizing the Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project Phase III (H.R. 4686) introduced by Rep. Reichert and Rep. Newhouse ran into an earmark issue in the House. This revised legislation allows authorization of the Yakima Basin project consistent with the House rules. The Yakima River Basin is one of the leading agricultural regions in Washington State and throughout the country. The orchardists, wine grape growers, and other members of the agricultural community inject approximately $3.2 billion into Washington’s economy and support countless jobs in the area. However, the demand for water in the region currently exceeds the resources available, especially during times of drought, which have hit the state especially hard in the past few years. As a result, water use has been restricted for junior water rights holders - or individuals who obtained water rights in 1905 or later – during times of shortages. With researchers predicting that drought seasons will only become more common and get worse as snowpack in the mountains continues to decline, action needs to be taken so that stakeholders in the Yakima Basin can continue operating without having to worry about whether or not they will be able to water their crops or their backyard garden. As the nation has seen with extreme water problems in California, we must be proactive and have a viable plan in place should intense drought hit Washington. After years of tough negotiations, the Yakima River Basin Plan offers a solution that will give water users more certainty, while also recognizing the concerns of conservationists and the various stakeholders in the Yakima Basin. Specifically, the Yakima River Basin Plan would: Provide greater water supply reliability for farmers and communities. Secure the water that communities need to meet current and future demand. Protect over 200,000 acres of currently unprotected forest, shrub steppe, and river habitat. Enhance habitat along the Yakima River and its tributaries. Implement water marketing and banking so that water is more easily delivered when and where needed. Build fish passage to allow salmon, steelhead, and bull trout to travel throughout the basin. Additional bill highlights: Requires future Reclamation feasibility studies to be completed with three years after the date of initiation and have a maximum federal cost of $3 million. The bill provides for a maximum seven year extension of that time and cost if the Interior Secretary provides a detailed justification to the non-federal project sponsor and the Congress. Requires the Interior Secretary to expedite the completion of any ongoing feasibility studies initiated before the date of enactment. If the Secretary determines that the project is justified in a completed report, he/she shall proceed to proceed to pre-construction planning, engineering and design of the project.​ Directs the Interior Secretary to develop and implement a coordinated environmental review process with Reclamation and the non-federal project sponsor as lead agencies for expedited environmental review of a project. The bill further directs the lead agencies to establish a schedule for completion of a study and lays out financial penalties to the Interior Secretary if timelines are not met. Directs the Interior Secretary to develop and submit a report to the relevant committees in Congress that identifies project report, proposed project and proposed modifications to studies and federal and non-federal cost estimates for all three. These activities would be similar to the feasibility studies listed in Section 7002 of P.L. 113-121, which authorized construction of projects by Congress. The legislation additionally authorizes the following projects: Shasta Lake Water Resources Investigation - California Equus Beds Division of the Wichita Project – Kansas Musselshell-Judith Rural Water System - Montana
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 1, The Tax Cut and Jobs Act, to provide historic reform that cuts taxes and simplifies our nation’s tax code: “I was proud to cast my vote today for historic tax reform that provides a simpler and fairer system for families and businesses in Central Washington,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This reform flattens rates and lifts burdens from taxpayers, and it unleashes American businesses, large and small, to better compete. About eighty percent of filers in the Fourth District use the standard deduction, so doubling it will provide real tax relief for the majority of families. Reform will boost manufacturers by allowing small businesses and farmers to immediately write off the full cost of new equipment. Reform will repeal the unfair death tax, which hinders family farms and small businesses from passing on the success of a lifetime of hard work on to the next generation. As this process continues, I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate to send legislation to President Trump for his signature.” Click here to WATCH Rep. Newhouse Floor Speech in Support of H.R. 1, The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Click here for recent tax return information, including the average itemized deductions of filers, in Adams, Benton, Douglas, Franklin, Grant, Okanogan, Walla Walla, and Yakima counties. Congressional district tax return data available here. A recent analysis by the non-partisan Tax Foundation found that the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act will add an estimated 19,968 new full time jobs to Washington State’s economy and increase after tax income for middle-income families by $2,672. Fast facts on H.R. 1: Lowers individual tax rates for low- and middle- income Americans to zero, 12%, 25%, and 35% so people can keep more of the money they earn throughout their lives, and continues to maintain 39.6% for high-income Americans. Significantly increases the standard deduction to protect roughly double the amount of what Americans earn each year from taxes – from $6,350 to $12,000 for individuals and $12,700 to $24,000 for married couples. Expands Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $1,600 per child to help parents with the cost of raising children and providing a credit of $300 for each parent and non-child dependent to help all families with their everyday expenses. Preserves the Adoption Tax Credit. Preserves the home mortgage interest deduction for existing mortgages and maintains the home mortgage interest deduction for newly purchased homes up to $500,000 – providing tax relief to current and aspiring homeowners. Continues to allow people to write off cost of state and local property taxes up to $10,000. According to the Internal Revenue Service data, in 2014, 80.4% of residents of the 4th Congressional District claimed the standard deduction when filing.
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today released the following statement after voting in favor of the Conference Report to accompany H.R. 2810 - National Defense Authorization Act. The legislation authorizes funding for national defense and national security programs of the Department of Energy and now heads to President Trump for signature into law. “It is our solemn responsibility in Congress to provide for the national defense, and I was proud to support this legislation to invest in our military,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This legislation authorizes the largest increase in pay for our troops in eight years and equips the Armed Forces to do its job on our behalf. NDAA authorizes vital investment for Hanford cleanup to fulfill the moral and legal obligation of the federal government to fulfill its promise to our community. I am pleased that this legislation also includes authorization to improve firefighting capabilities at the Yakima Training Center.” The conference report for NDAA authorizes funding at $755,563,000 for the Richland Operations Office (RL), an increase from the President’s Budget Request of $716,192,000, and $1,504,311,000 for the Office of River Protection (ORP). Click here for a summary on the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Click here for top facts to know about FY 2018 NDAA.
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – The Environment Subcommittee of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce held a hearing this morning to examine a Discussion Draft of the Farm Regulatory Certainty Act. The proposal is for bipartisan legislation lead by Congressmen Dan Newhouse (R-WA-4) and Jim Costa (D-CA-16) that would amend the citizen suit provision of the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) with respect to agricultural operations. The Newhouse/Costa Discussion Draft of the Farm Regulatory Certainty Act aims to protect farmers, who are trying to do the right thing and comply with applicable requirements, from citizen lawsuits if the state or Environmental Protection Agency is already actively working with the agricultural operation through a civil, criminal, or administrative action to address identified problems. “This legislation is straightforward and limited in scope to the citizen suit provisions under RCRA. Simply put, this legislation covers only the agricultural activities that are already exempt under EPA’s RCRA regulations,” said Rep. Newhouse, who is sponsoring the bill. “I firmly believe farmers have and must continue to lead the charge on good stewardship and conservation. The discussion draft before you today seeks to protect farmers who are trying to do the right thing with state or federal agencies to address nutrient management issues.” “Farmers, ranchers, and dairymen know better than anyone just how much they depend on the land for their livelihoods, and they have always been some of our best environmental stewards,” said Rep. Jim Costa, a Democratic cosponsor of the bill. “My home state of California produces more food and fiber than any other state, all while complying with some of the most rigorous environmental regulations in the world. Farmers acting in good faith to improve their environmental practices should not be targeted by lawsuits while they are actively working to meet regulations. This commonsense legislation would go a long way to both improve the environment and allow our San Joaquin Valley to continue to put food on dinner tables throughout the nation.” A background memo, legislative text, witness testimony and an archived webcast can be found online HERE.
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) led a press conference in the U.S. Capitol with 13 House GOP Reps. Don Bacon (R-NE), Joe Barton (R-TX), Susan Brooks (R-IN), Ryan Costello (R-PA), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), John Faso (R-NY), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Darrell Issa (R-CA), Peter King (R-NY), Leonard Lance (R-NJ), Erik Paulsen (R-MN), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), and Fred Upton (R-MI). The members urged that Congress act and support ongoing negotiations led by House Republican leaders for a legislative solution for beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program before the end of 2017. “We need a solution to get 218 House votes, 60 votes in the Senate, or there is no deal,” said Rep. Newhouse. “No bill is going to be perfect, but inaction is just not acceptable.” CLICK HERE TO WATCH Photos available here. Members released the following statements after the press conference: Rep. Susan Brooks (R-IN): “Thank you to the many DACA recipients from the Fifth District of Indiana who have shared their stories with me. These young people are contributing in significant ways to our communities. We need to fix this problem in a bipartisan way because they have grown up in our schools, with our children, pledged allegiance to our flag, and are part of this country. I’d like to thank my colleague Congressman Newhouse for emphasizing the importance of finding a compassionate resolution to their immigration status. Sending these motivated young people back to countries they are not familiar with is not the solution.” Rep. Ryan Costello (R-PA): “We in Congress need to provide a humane, permanent, and constitutional solution to this issue. It is not something that can just be done by a president. It does require Congress to step up and legislate, and to do so in a way that reflects the best about our country, which is that we are a compassionate people,” Rep. Costello said during the press conference. “We owe it to the American people to demonstrate that we can do this on a bipartisan basis. Candidly, I would add this, let’s not wait until five months and 30 days, let’s do this earlier rather than later, and let’s demonstrate that we can work together and that we’re doing this for the right reasons.” Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA): “From dangerous ‘Sanctuary City’ policies to the national security threat posed by our compromised borders, it is clear that our immigration system is broken and there is much that needs to be done to fix it. Congress must reassert its authority and work to fix our immigration system by taking into account all aspects of the issue – from enacting 'Kate's Law' to deport those who commit crimes while here illegally, to defunding sanctuary cities, to securing operational control of our borders, to treating with compassion those children who were brought here due to no fault of their own, in a manner that is becoming of American ideals and values." Rep. Leonard Lance (R-NJ): “The best legislative solutions start from the middle out; that is why I am so encouraged to stand here besides my Republican colleagues. Together, on this stage, we represent a belief that DREAMERs are a part of the larger American family and we recognize our obligation to keep the promise we made to the DREAMERs by working together towards a compassionate legislative solution that would allow them to remain here.” Rep. Erik Paulsen (R-MN): “This morning shows once again there is a growing consensus for a solution to help young people who came to our country through no fault of their own and for all practical purposes are Americans. I will continue to support helping the 6,000 DACA recipients in Minnesota to ensure they remain valuable contributors to our state and country." While Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) was not able to attend the press conference because of the tax reform markup in the Ways and Means Committee, he joins his colleagues in support of these efforts. “As the end of the year approaches, the need for a legislative solution to the DACA program has become increasingly urgent. DACA recipients were brought here by no fault of their own and see America as their country and their home. These children have contributed so much to our communities and I believe punishing them for a crime they did not commit is not in the American DNA. It is incumbent on us to make sure they have every opportunity to live the American Dream. Congress must act immediately.” Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL): “I’m thankful to my colleague, Dan, for arranging this press conference to show Republican support for finding a legislative fix for Dreamers. These young men and women, who contribute positively to our nation, deserve our support and help to stay here. For many, the United States is the only country they have truly known and to deport them to their countries of birth would not only be a hardship but would rob our nation of an important talent pool that can innovate and help us grow.” Rep. Fred Upton (R-MI): "Let's get a bill to the president’s desk that he can sign and say 'Merry Christmas' to a lot of folks across the country."
11.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed a bill originally introduced by U.S. Representatives Derek Kilmer (D-WA) and Dan Newhouse (R-WA) to force the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to move forward on fixes to its management issues. The VA Management Alignment Act of 2017 would direct the head of the VA to issue a report to Congress detailing the steps they will take to reorganize and effectively improve veterans’ access to quality care. It is now heads to the Senate for a vote before reaching the President’s desk. The legislation, supported by the American Legion and the American Federation of Government Employees, follows the release of comprehensive studies that uncovered management problems at the VA. The reports that have been issued so far, and others written by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), have uncovered that the VA did not follow through on internal and Congressional recommendations to fix the problems of manipulated wait times and management failures, and highlighted problems with the VA’s human resource department. Additional reports will be released to the public this year. “This Friday is Veterans Day, when we honor the sacrifice of the men and women who have served in our Armed Forces,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I can think of no better way to honor our veterans than improving the care that they have earned and that our nation has promised. I am grateful that this legislation has been approved by the House to address mismanagement in the VA.” “We need to have the backs of those who serve,” said Rep. Kilmer. “Stories and reports about manipulated wait times and mismanagement in our VA system proved that systemic reforms are needed. I’m glad our bill is moving forward so we can improve care and get veterans the services they have earned.” “AMVETS thanks Representatives Kilmer and Newhouse for their leadership in offering this important bill to better serve those who have stood up to serve this country” said AMVETS National Executive Director Joseph Chenelly. “The VA Management Alignment Act will ensure that those in all levels of employment are upholding their commitments and dedication to serving veterans.” The bill from Kilmer and Newhouse calls for the VA to deliver their report to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives within 180 days of the act being signed into law. The report would spell out the roles and responsibilities for senior staff and organizational units within the VA and how they work together to promote efficiency and accountability. In 2014, news reports exposed patient delays at the Phoenix VA and other facilities across the country. A national audit of the VA was conducted and it was found at the time that the VA Puget Sound hospital had new patients waiting an average of 59 days for an appointment. Nearly 100,000 veterans use the VA Puget Sound system. Nationally, the audit found that 13 percent of VA schedulers reported that supervisors told them to manipulate appointments to make wait times look shorter. The original GAO report evaluated how well the VA followed through on recommendations to change management practices from internal and outside reviews of the organization. It also looked at how well a realignment of Veterans Integrated Service Networks (VISN) from 21 to 18 was being carried out. Each VISN oversees all VA facilities and personnel in separate regions of the country.
11.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House voted to approve the CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act. The CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act combines health care funding extensions included in H.R. 3921, the Helping Ensure Access for Little Ones, Toddlers, and Hopeful Youth by Keeping Insurance Delivery Stable Act of 2017 or the HEALTHY KIDS Act, and H.R. 3922, the Community Health And Medical Professionals Improve Our Nation Act of 2017 or the CHAMPION Act: “I was pleased to support Community Health Centers in Central Washington with today’s House vote reauthorizing the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and other vital health programs that are essential to ensuring that Americans continue to have access to these critically important services.” The CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act: Funds the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). CHIP provides health care to lower-income children, and this bill would extend the funding for five years. Extends funding for the Community Health Center Fund (CHCF) for two additional years. This funding is used at federally qualified health centers, which provide an array of comprehensive health services to medically-underserved populations. Community health centers serve over 280,000 constituents in Washington's 4th District every year. Provides funding for Teaching Health Centers, so we can continue to train primary care doctors and retain them at community-based clinics in rural areas. With three Teaching Health Centers in Central Washington, this funding is important to ensure that we have qualified, well-educated doctors providing care for families in less-populated areas. Click here for more information.
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on the House Republicans’ legislation, The Tax Cut and Jobs Act, to provide historic reform to our nation’s tax code: “For the first time in more than thirty years, we have the historic opportunity for major reform to the tax code to reduce the burden on American families and spur economic growth,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Middle class taxpayers need a break, and our bill provides it. Under our plan, a typical middle-income family of four that earns the median household income will receive a $1,182 tax cut. Our plan allows American small businesses and corporations to be more competitive and hire more workers. I am excited to work with my colleagues on this reform to simplify the tax code, help families, and stimulate job creation.” Fast facts on the tax reform legislation unveiled today: Lowers individual tax rates for low- and middle- income Americans to zero, 12%, 25%, and 35% so people can keep more of the money they earn throughout their lives, and continues to maintain 39.6% for high-income Americans. Significantly increases the standard deduction to protect roughly double the amount of what Americans earn each year from taxes – from $6,350 to $12,000 for individuals and $12,700 to $24,000 for married couples. Expands Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $1,600 to help parents with the cost of raising children and providing a credit of $300 for each parent and non-child dependent to help all families with their everyday expenses. Preserves the home mortgage interest deduction for existing mortgages and maintains the home mortgage interest deduction for newly purchased homes up to $500,000 – providing tax relief to current and aspiring homeowners. Continues to allow people to write off cost of state and local property taxes up to $10,000. According to the Internal Revenue Service data, 80.4% of residents of the 4th Congressional District claim the standard deduction when filing. The average amount of itemized deductions in the 4th Congressional District is $21,075, below the state average of $24,660 and the national average of $27,830. Congressional district data available here. Click here for additional policy highlights. Click here to read the legislation.
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) applauded House passage of H.R. 2936, Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2017. Rep. Newhouse cosponsored the bipartisan legislation to address the growing economic and environmental threats of catastrophic wildfire. This legislation would tackle the issue of fire borrowing and provide targeted forest management reforms to dramatically improve the health and resiliency of our nation’s forests and rangelands. Rep. Newhouse said: “My constituents know as well as anyone the immense threat that wildfires pose to local communities. In just the past four years, the 4th District, my district, has seen the two largest fires in Washington state history. We have lost hundreds of homes, business, and structures. My constituents are still struggling to recover from the Carlton Complex Fire in 2014 and the Okanogan Complex Fire from 2015. We lost three firefighters that year. That truly is a high cost. Active forest management is a matter of saving lives and livelihoods, of protecting our communities, and ensuring our constituents’ healthy and safety, which is why I am proud to support this rule and the underlying legislation today.” See Rep. Newhouse’s full remarks below. In October, Rep. Newhouse supported passage of H.R. 2266, Additional Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Requirements Act, to provide relief for communities struck by hurricanes and catastrophic wildfires. Rep. Newhouse supported bipartisan House passage of similar legislation in 2016. For more information on H.R 2936, click here. WATCH CONGRESSMAN NEWHOUSE SPEAK ON HOUSE FLOOR TO SUPPORT FOREST MANAGEMENT REFORM Transcript: Rep. Newhouse: Mr. Speaker, on Tuesday, just yesterday, the Rules Committee met and reported a rule, House Resolution 595, providing for consideration of an important piece of legislation: H.R. 2936, the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2017. The rule provides for consideration of H.R. 2936 under a structured rule, with four Democratic amendments made in order, two bipartisan amendments, and one Republican-led amendment made in order. Mr. Speaker, this rule provides for consideration of H.R. 2936, the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2017, a bill that is critically important to my district in Central Washington state, and to rural, forested districts like it across the United States who continue to face devastation from catastrophic wildfires as we have seen just this last year a great example of. This bipartisan, comprehensive legislation is aimed at addressing the disastrous consequences of wildfires by utilizing the tools the Forest Service and other agencies have to reduce the threats posed by these wildfires, by insects, by disease infestation, and dangerous, old forest overgrowth that serves as a literal tinderbox for wildfires. This legislation will expedite and improve forest management activities in federal forests to counteract these threats. This legislation—spearheaded by my friend and colleague from Arkansas, Representative Bruce Westerman, who is a forester himself—is comprised of a truly comprehensive effort developed here in the People’s House. It’s bipartisan. Its bipartisan support demonstrates that the threat of catastrophic wildfires does not just impact a “red” or “blue” district—but rather poses a threat to communities across the United States. H.R. 2936 would provide federal land management agencies immediate tools to increase the pace and the scale of forest management projects to dramatically improve the health and resiliency of our national forests, ensuring robust protection of the environment. Active management leads to healthier forests. It’s that simple. The legislation also allows expedited review for collaborative projects in federal forests, and removes incentives for special interest groups to file frivolous lawsuits. By requiring litigants opposing active management projects to propose an alternative management option, we can instill accountability into a system that is wrought with litigation. Additionally, the legislation bolsters locally-led forest management and hazardous fuel reduction projects to improve forest health. By engaging local stakeholders, we can lessen the severity and the costs of wildfires while protecting the communities and the environment. Mr. Speaker, another major component of our nation’s wildfire crisis is the broken system with which we fund firefighting suppression. When these firefighting costs exceed the existing budget, the U.S. Forest Service transfers funds from other vital forest management program accounts in order to pay for wildfire suppression. I and a lot of other people in this chamber have been an outspoken critic of this dangerous, broken cycle, known as “fire-borrowing.” That also is a very bipartisan position that is taken. H.R. 2936 provides a major step forward in ending this cycle. By raiding accounts that provide for forest management programs which help prevent wildfires, we tie one hand behind our backs in the effort to both prevent and suppress these catastrophic wildfires. So this legislation will help end this longstanding problem. Mr. Speaker, my constituents know as well as anyone the immense threat that wildfires pose to local communities. In just the past four years, the 4th District of my state, my district, has seen the two largest fires in Washington state history. We have lost hundreds of homes, business, and structures. My constituents are still struggling to recover from the Carlton Complex Fire in 2014 and the Okanogan Complex Fire from 2015. We lost three firefighters that year. That truly is a high cost. Active forest management is a matter of saving lives and livelihoods, of protecting our communities, and ensuring our constituents’ healthy and safety, which is why I am proud to support this rule and the underlying legislation today. Mr. Speaker, as I have often said, we cannot continue to limp from one devastating fire season to the next. We must take significant steps toward reforestation, rehabilitation, and overall forest management. This bill, this legislation will do just that. We must begin to prevent, to suppress, to mitigate the threat of catastrophic wildfires, and the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2017 will be a momentous opportunity to turn around our diseased and our overgrown federal forests. This legislation is essential and desperately needed to change the current path of forest management on public lands: It’s outdated, unsustainable and dangerous. Mr. Speaker, this is a straightforward rule, allowing for consideration of this critical piece of legislation that will help protect our rural communities and ensure that we are prepared to respond to devastating and catastrophic wildfires that have plagued many areas of our country the last few years. I support the rule’s adoption and I urge my colleagues to support both the rule and the underlying bill. Before I yield to my colleague, Mr. Speaker, I’d like to share one last note. Just a few weeks ago, the new Chief of the U.S. Forest Service, Tony Tooke, came to Capitol Hill and briefed some of my colleagues—me included—regarding this year’s devastating wildfire season. He reported to us that over 8 million acres just this year have burned—we’ve lost dozens of lives, thousands of homes. Chief Tooke left us with the stark fact that while more than 8 million acres burned this year—another 80 million acres across the United States are at high risk of catching fire. 80 million acres. So Mr. Speaker, if that does not demonstrate, does not show how dire this problem is, I certainly can’t tell you what does.
10.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today participated in a Congressional Gold Medal ceremony at Emancipation Hall in the U.S. Capitol in honor of Filipino veterans of World War II. Rep. Newhouse was joined by his guest, Rey Pascua, the President of Filipino-American Community of the Yakima Valley. The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest civilian honor that Congress can bestow. Rep. Newhouse was a cosponsor of companion legislation passed in the House, H.R.2737, Filipino Veterans of World War II Congressional Gold Medal Act of 2015. For video of the ceremony, click here. Rep. Newhouse said: “It is never too late to show our nation’s gratitude. Today’s ceremony was about honoring the sacrifice of Filipino and Filipino-American veterans—including those from Central Washington—who answered the call to service in World War II. It was my privilege to welcome Rey Pascua to represent our local Filipino-American community out of gratitude for his efforts to assist veterans and their families.”
10.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today requested a legislative hearing in a letter to House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) and Rep. John Shimkus (R-IL), Chairman of House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on the Environment, on H.R. 848, the Farm Regulatory Certainty Act. Rep. Newhouse introduced the bipartisan legislation earlier this year. H.R. 848 reaffirms and clarifies Congress’ intent regarding the inappropriateness of subjecting agricultural operation nutrient management activities under the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA). The legislation will offer increased protection for individuals diligently seeking to treat identified issues, and prevent farmers from being targeted twice if they are already engaged in legal action or are making a diligent attempt to work with the state or federal government to address issues. “While I agree there are a number of statutes that do govern agricultural nutrient management practices, Congress never intended for RCRA to be one of those statutes,” said Rep. Newhouse in the letter. “Moreover, the Environmental Protection Agency’s regulations confirm that agricultural wastes, such as manures and crop residues, were not intended to be governed under RCRA.” Rep. Newhouse continued in the letter: “This commonsense legislation would clarify Congressional intent on this statute, work to restore a relationship of trust and confidence between farmers and regulators, and would prevent farmers who are already engaged in legal action who are diligently working with the state or federal government to address nutrient management issues from being targeted by citizen suits.” The Farm Regulatory Certainty Act would: Reaffirm and clarify congressional intent regarding the inappropriateness of subjecting agricultural nutrients to RCRA. Prevent farmers who are already engaged in legal action or are making a diligent attempt to work with the state or federal government to address nutrient management issues from being targeted by citizen suits. The Farm Regulatory Certainty Act would not: Prevent the EPA from enforcing current regulations under the Safe Water Drinking Act, the Clean Water Act, or any other applicable law. Exempt livestock producers from any laws or regulations intended to govern agricultural operations. Background: In early 2015, a federal judge in Washington State erroneously ruled against several dairy farmers that nitrates found in groundwater – commonly a byproduct of manure and fertilizers – were a “solid waste” under the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and that high water nitrate levels constituted “open dumping”. While farmers are subject to numerous water statutes, this misguided judicial decision unfortunately neglects the fact that RCRA – a law intended to govern safe disposal of solid wastes in sanitary landfills – was never intended to regulate agricultural operation nutrient management activities. In fact, the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) original 1979 RCRA regulations include exceptions for agricultural byproducts returned to the soil as nutrients. This decision places our entire agricultural community in a gray area of legal uncertainty. Farmers are now uncertain which statutes govern their nutrient management activities, and are open to increased liability from RCRA citizen suits based on undefined standards. Moreover, in the Washington State case, the farmers being sued under RCRA were working with EPA to address nutrient management issues prior to the citizen suit being filed. This inappropriate application of RCRA puts farmers on the defensive, and discourages proactive, voluntary stewardship of their land and water. Click here or see below for the text of the letter to Chairman Walden and Rep. Shimkus. October 24, 2017 The Honorable Greg Walden Chairman Committee on Energy and Commerce 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable John Shimkus Chairman Subcommittee on the Environment 2125 Rayburn House Office building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Walden and Chairman Shimkus: I am writing to request that the House Energy and Commerce Committee hold a legislative hearing on my legislation, H.R. 848, the Farm Regulatory Certainty Act, which your committee holds jurisdiction. This important piece of legislation would clarify and reaffirm that the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) was not intended to govern agricultural nutrient management activities. In 2015, a federal judge ruled in a citizen suit that dissolved manure nitrates constitute a “solid waste” under RCRA, and held four Washington State dairies culpable of “open dumping” due to their nutrient management practices. As a farmer myself, I firmly believe farmers have and must continue to lead the charge on good stewardship and conservation. This 2015 misguided ruling has placed farmers across the country in a legal gray area. It is unfair for agricultural nutrients to be exempt from law, then have a court find farmers at fault for non-compliance with the very law they are exempt from. Farmers need certainty to what rules apply to them. While I agree there are a number of statutes that do govern agricultural nutrient management practices, Congress never intended for RCRA to be one of those statutes. Moreover, the Environmental Protection Agency’s regulations confirm that agricultural wastes, such as manures and crop residues, were not intended to be governed under RCRA. This commonsense legislation would clarify Congressional intent on this statute, work to restore a relationship of trust and confidence between farmers and regulators, and would prevent farmers who are already engaged in legal action who are diligently working with the state or federal government to address nutrient management issues from being targeted by citizen suits. We want to continue to encourage farmers to be good stewards, and create an environment where farmers feel comfortable working with state and federal regulatory agencies to address stewardship issues. I look forward to working with you on this legislation and thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Dan Newhouse Member of Congress
10.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs passed U.S. Representatives Derek Kilmer (D-WA) and Dan Newhouse (R-WA) bill to force the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) to move forward on fixes to its mismanagement issues. Their bill, H.R. 1066, The VA Management Alignment Act of 2017, would direct the head of the VA to issue a report to Congress detailing the steps they will take to reorganize and effectively improve veterans’ access to quality care. It is now cleared to head to the floor of the House. The legislation, supported by the American Legion and the American Federation of Government Employees, follows the release of comprehensive studies that uncovered management problems at the VHA. The reports that have been issued so far, and others written by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), have uncovered problems with the VA’s human resource department and that the VA did not follow through on internal and Congressional recommendations to fix the problems of manipulated wait times and management failures. Additional reports will be released to the public this year. “We need to have the backs of those who serve,” said Kilmer. “Stories and reports about manipulated wait times and mismanagement in our VA system proved that systemic reforms were needed. I’m glad our bill to improve care so veterans get the services they have earned is moving forward.” “Veterans deserve a VA that works, and our bill will require action to improve systemic problems that affect delivery of care,” said Newhouse. “I am grateful for my colleagues on the House Committee on Veterans Affairs for approving our legislation to pinpoint and address mismanagement issues at the VA.” The bill from Kilmer and Newhouse calls for the VA to deliver their report to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives within 180 days of the act’s passage. The report would spell out the roles and responsibilities for senior staff and organizational units within the VA and how they work together to promote efficiency and accountability. In 2014, news reports came out about patient delays at the Phoenix VA and other facilities across the country. A national audit of the VA was conducted and it was found at the time that the VA Puget Sound hospital had new patients waiting 59 days – on average – for an appointment. Nearly 100,000 veterans use the VA Puget Sound system. Nationally, the audit found that 13 percent of VA schedulers reported that supervisors told them to manipulate appointments to make wait times look shorter. The original GAO report evaluated how well the VHA followed through on recommendations to change management practices from internal and outside reviews of the organization. It also looked at how well a realignment of Veterans Integrated Service Networks (VISN) from 21 to 18 was being carried out. Each VISN oversees all VA facilities and personnel in separate regions of the country.
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 2266, Additional Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Requirements Act. H.R. 2266 includes relief for communities struck by hurricanes and catastrophic wildfires. “From hurricanes to wildfires, this legislation supports American communities that have been devastated by natural disasters,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I am grateful that the Trump Administration supported our request to include much-needed resources and reforms in its recommendation. This disaster relief package goes a long way to supporting communities suffering from catastrophic wildfires, and we must now act to fix our broken forest management system and end the practice of fire borrowing once and for all.” H.R. 2266, Additional Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Requirements Act included $576.5 million for the U.S. Department of Agriculture and Department of the Interior for wildfire suppression as firefighting efforts continue in the West. Earlier this month, Rep. Newhouse joined colleagues from the West to request the Trump Administration include forestry management reform and wildfire disaster relief packages in its recommendations to Congress.
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, the House Natural Resources Committee held a hearing on legislation co-sponsored by Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) to protect dams on the Snake River. H.R. 3144 would approve the Federal Columbia River Power System (FCRPS) Biological Opinion (BiOp) until 2022. This legislation would work to support the FCRPS, ensuring our dams stay in operation with the benefit they bring to the Pacific Northwest through the clean, renewable, and affordable energy while allowing salmon to recover at record rates. Jack W. Heffling of West Richland, President of United Power Trades Organization, testified at the hearing in support of the legislation. Rep. Newhouse released the following statement after testifying: “Our communities depend on the Snake River dams as vital sources of clean, renewable, and affordable energy right here in the Pacific Northwest,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I applaud Jack Heffling for speaking up in support of maintaining these economic and energy assets, and I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to protect our dams and ensure that the current BiOp remains in effect until 2022.” Click here to watch Rep. Newhouse’s Q&A on protecting Snake River dams Jack W. Heffling of West Richland, President of United Power Trades Organization, testified at the hearing in support of the legislation. In prepared remarks for the Committee, Heffling stated: “[T]he BiOp is working, is the most scientifically sound plan that can be incorporated, and no pressure from outside interest groups should change that. The Snake River dams are irreplaceable and are important not only to the people that live in our area, but to the Northwest as a whole. Removal would be disastrous, not only economically, but to the lifestyles of those who enjoy the recreational benefits they offer. No further money should be wasted on studying their removal or taking any actions that even simulate natural river flow. It took an Act of Congress to get these dams constructed. It should require an Act of Congress to remove them.” The legislation was introduced by Pacific Northwest Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), and Greg Walden (R-OR). Click here for more information on H.R. 3144.
10.04.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after his legislation, H.R. 1274, the State, Tribal, and Local Species Transparency and Recovery Act, was approved in a House Natural Resources Committee markup. During the markup, H.R. 1274 was also amended to include the text of Rep. Newhouse’s legislation, H.R. 1273: “Today’s markup of my legislation to modernize the Endangered Species Act is a great step forward to improve transparency in endangered species listing decisions,” said Rep. Newhouse. “In Central Washington, the listing of gray wolves and potential listing of grizzly bears have enormous ramifications for local communities. I am grateful to my colleagues on the Natural Resources Committee for their support. This legislation ensures the use of sound science and that state and local stakeholders are given access to data used in listing decisions. Additionally, it requires federal agencies to consider state, local, and tribal input on listing decisions.” In July, Rep. Newhouse testified before the House Natural Resources Committee at a legislative hearing on his bill to amend the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (ESA) to require the federal government to disclose to affected states all data used prior to any ESA listing decisions and require that the “best available scientific and commercial data” used by the federal government include information provided by affected states, tribes, and local governments. An earlier version of H.R. 1274 passed the House in the 113th Congress. Rep. Newhouse introduced H.R. 1274 and H.R. 1273 on March 1. H.R. 1274, the State, Tribal, and Local Species Transparency and Recovery Act, was cosponsored by Reps., Ralph Abraham (R-LA), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Greg Gianforte (R-MT), Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Paul Gosar (R-AZ), Gregg Harper (R-MS), Walter Jones (R-NC), Roger Marshall (R-KS), Steve Pearce (R-NM), Pete Sessions (R-TX), Scott Tipton (R-CO), and Ted Yoho (R-FL). H.R. 1273, the 21st Century Endangered Species Transparency Act, was cosponsored by Reps. Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Greg Gianforte (R-MT), Paul Gosar (R-AZ), Gregg Harper (R-MS), Roger Marshall (R-KS), Steve Pearce (R-NM), Jason Smith (R-MO), and Scott Tipton (R-CO). H.R. 1273 would update the ESA by requiring federal agencies to make data used for ESA decisions publicly available on the Internet. It would also ensure the proper use of taxpayer funds by putting a cap on attorneys’ fees.
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after joining Rep. Scott Taylor (R-VA) and colleagues in a bipartisan request to Acting Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security Elaine Duke to extend the administration’s renewal deadline for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program beneficiaries. Currently, DACA beneficiaries face a renewal permit deadline on October 5th, 2017. The Members requested January 15, 2018 as the earliest deadline for permit renewal: “The fast-approaching deadline to renew their status will place thousands of Dreamers in legal limbo unless a workable solution is put in place,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I join my colleagues in requesting that the administration provide additional flexibility for Dreamers while Congress works on a legislative solution.” Rep. Newhouse is a cosponsor of legislative protections for children brought here through no fault of their own, including H.R. 496, the Bar Removal of Individuals who Dream and Grow our Economy (BRIDGE) Act, and H.R.1468, the Recognizing America's Children (RAC) Act. Rep. Newhouse is also a cosponsor of H.R.60, the Encourage New Legalized Immigrants to Start Training (ENLIST) Act. See below for the text of the letter: September 26, 2017 The Honorable Elaine C. Duke Secretary of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Acting Secretary Duke, We are writing to express our profound concern and desire for relief from the administration’s new deadline for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program permit renewal of October 5th, 2017. We believe that the decision to require all DACA recipients whose permits expire in the next six months to have their renewal submitted by October 5th is a deadline that is arbitrary and puts an undue financial burden on many law-abiding people within the program. It will result in tens of thousands of current DACA holders losing their protection from deportation and ability to work legally and contribute to our nation. Further, it may push many into the shadows from fear. We ask that you postpone the current deadline, and replace it with the new date of January 15th, 2018 or until Congress acts. According to the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), 154,000 DACA beneficiaries have expiration dates between September 5th, 2017 and March 5th, 2018. Your recent announcement gives these 154,000 only a few short weeks to submit their DACA renewal applications. The artificial October 5th deadline to submit 154,000 DACA renewal applications is unworkable and impractical. In the wake of this decision we respectfully request that the Department of Homeland Security and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services extend the deadline for deferred action renewal until January 15th, 2018 or until Congress has time to consider a legislative solution. Thank you for your consideration and we look forward to your swift reply. Sincerely,
09.20.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) applauded the introduction of bipartisan legislation in the U.S. Senate by Sens. Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Angus King (I-Maine), Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.) and Susan Collins (R-ME) that would increase funding for the Market Access Program and the Foreign Market Development program by 2023. The bill, the Cultivating Revitalization by Expanding American Agricultural Trade and Exports (CREAATE) Act, aims to revitalize the USDA’s export promotion programs, which generated a net return of $28.30 for every dollar invested between 1977 and 2014. “Agriculture market development programs are important tools to boost American agriculture exports and assist farmers to compete in the global market and reach more customers overseas,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I applaud the introduction of companion Senate legislation to strengthen the Market Access Program and the Foreign Market Development program, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate on behalf of American farmers and agriculture.” Rep. Newhouse and Rep. Chellie Pingree (D-ME) introduced the House companion bill, H.R. 2321, Cultivating Revitalization by Expanding American Agricultural Trade and Exports (CREAATE) Act in May. The CREAATE Act amends the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 to extend through FY2023 the Market Access Program and the Foreign Market Development Program, which are programs administered by the Department of Agriculture to promote exports of U.S. agricultural products. The CREAATE Act would double funding for MAP and FMDP, incrementally phasing in increases over five years. This increase, while a fractional portion of the USADA and the federal budget, will provide an enormous return on investment for America’s agricultural community and the U.S. economy as a whole.
09.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the U.S. House approved H.R. 3219, the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act, which includes all twelve annual appropriations bills necessary to continue operations of the federal government: “This is the first time since 2009 that all twelve appropriations bills were approved on time by the People’s House, which is a victory for regular order and good governance,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This wide-ranging legislation appropriates funding for priorities on behalf of our nation and Central Washington, to maintain dams on the Snake River, and many more provisions that I was able to include in the appropriations process. I hope that my colleagues in the Senate are able to act quickly so that the President can sign this legislation into law.” Click here for a complete summary of H.R. 3219, the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act. The legislation approved today by the House includes the remaining appropriations bills that include priorities for Central Washington that Rep. Newhouse fought for as a member of the House Committee on Appropriations: To included funding for previously authorized phases of the Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project, hydropower and nuclear energy, and language prohibiting the removal of Snake River dams; To address the farm labor housing shortage, and provides funding for the Market Access Program (MAP) and Foreign Market Development (FMD) programs; To support the North Cascades Smokejumper Base, gray wolf delisting, the Wolf-Livestock Loss Demonstration Program, requiring the EPA to adhere to the law’s intended scope rather than expanding regulations to target farmers, and grazing management; To provide for critical programs such as border and immigration enforcement, customs activities, protection against cyberterrorism, aviation security, natural disaster response, border security, and temporary guest-workers, including Rep. Newhouse’s bipartisan amendment applying the H-2A program to all of agriculture; To include report language Rep. Newhouse worked on with Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL) to recognize the economic stress that can be placed on rural regions following a natural disaster such as a major wildfire and that many rural communities located in states with large population centers are often disadvantaged by the disaster declaration and FEMA’s federal assistance program processes. In July, the House approved H.R. 3219, the Make America Secure Appropriations Act, in order to fund national security programs, including the military, raising our troops’ pay, supporting defense nuclear waste cleanup at Hanford, and supporting research at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory.
09.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today released the following statement after voting yes on the Senate amendment to H.R. 601. (Hurricane Supplemental, Debt Limit, Continuing Appropriations, and Flood Insurance Package): “The legislation before Congress was far from ideal, but President Trump made a deal to provide hurricane relief,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I do not support kicking the can down the road by adding a short-term three-month debt ceiling to disaster relief legislation. Republicans should be governing in a fiscally-responsible manner that advances conservative priorities in funding the government and addressing our debt limit. However, I cannot ignore that Hurricane Harvey and its floodwaters came at a very heavy cost, taking 70 lives and causing untold billions in property damage. In the coming days, Hurricane Irma is expected to make landfall, potentially devastating our nation’s coast. Despite the many problems with this legislation, I voted to support our fellow Americans who are suffering from natural disasters.”
09.07.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Transportation noticed a grant for apron and runway rehabilitation for the Methow Valley State Airport in Okanogan County: “The Transportation Department’s grant announcement is good news for the Methow Valley and for the North Cascade Smokejumper Base in Winthrop,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The airport facility upgrades should benefit airport users as well as the ability of the NCSB to fulfill its mission of fire prevention.” Grant Description: $2,614,091.00 for to rehabilitate the apron and runway at Methow Valley State Airport. Additional details can be found here. In August, Rep. Newhouse announced that the U.S Forest Service finalized and adopted a recommendation to maintain the North Cascade Smokejumper Base in Winthrop. In July, Rep. Newhouse ensured that the Interior Appropriations bill approved by the House Appropriations Committee included his language supporting the North Cascades Smokejumper Base remaining in Winthrop.
09.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) announced his retirement from Congress: “I will miss working with my friend and colleague, Congressman Dave Reichert, in the U.S. House,” said Rep. Newhouse. “It is an honor to serve alongside him and work on many issues on behalf of Central Washington. Dave has been a key voice educating his colleagues on the issues of law enforcement and trade, especially. Dave has served honorably in the U.S. Air Force Reserves, in law enforcement, and in Congress, and I know that his long list of accomplishments will only grow after he begins a new chapter in his life. I am grateful to continue to work with Congressman Reichert during the 115th Congress, and I wish him, Julie, and his entire family my very best wishes as he enters this new chapter.”
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement in response to the Administration’s announcement to wind down the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: "Today’s decision phasing out DACA creates more uncertainty for Dreamers,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The debate must now return to the people’s representatives in Congress. President Obama’s unilateral executive action was never the long-term answer, which is why Congress must now act to protect children brought here through no fault of their own. The individuals I have met with are outstanding young people who desire to improve our communities in Central Washington. I believe that our borders must be secured, and our laws must be upheld, but we must also understand that these young people grew up in America and know no other life. They need the stability of a permanent legislative solution provided by Congress. I am committed to working on behalf of Dreamers and urge my colleagues to work together to provide a legislative solution.” On Friday, Rep. Newhouse joined Rep. Martha McSally (R-AZ) and House colleagues in a letter urging Speaker of the House Paul Ryan for a legislative solution to give certainty to beneficiaries of the DACA program. Rep. Newhouse is a cosponsor of legislative protections for children brought here through no fault of their own, including H.R. 496, the Bar Removal of Individuals who Dream and Grow our Economy (BRIDGE) Act, and H.R.1468, the Recognizing America's Children (RAC) Act. Rep. Newhouse is also a cosponsor of H.R.60, the Encourage New Legalized Immigrants to Start Training (ENLIST) Act.
09.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) joined Rep. Martha McSally (R-AZ) and House colleagues in a letter urging Speaker of the House Paul Ryan for a legislative solution to give certainty to beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: "Any decision to end the DACA program would not merely be a disappointment, but a major setback for the young people I know who were brought here as children through no fault of their own,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I have listened to their stories, and these young people are struggling as their futures here seem in doubt. I will continue to work to protect Dreamers. It is my priority in Congress to give these young people certainty." In addition to Reps. McSally and Newhouse, the letter was signed by Reps. Don Bacon (R-NE), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), Jeff Denham (R-CA), Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), John Faso (R-NY), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Scott Taylor (R-VA), and David Valadao (R-CA). The text of the letter to Speaker Ryan follows: The Honorable Paul D. Ryan Speaker of the House H-232, United States Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Mr. Speaker, As you are aware, due to potential legal action being led by Texas State Attorney General Ken Paxton and attorneys general from nine other states, President Trump is currently facing a September 5 deadline to phase out the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. Created in 2012 by President Barack Obama, the DACA program provides prosecutorial discretion to defer removal action against people who entered the United States illegally as children. Since its inception, the federal government has approved approximately 795,000 initial DACA applications and 924,000 renewals. DACA recipients have contributed both to the U.S. economy and our society. Since being approved for DACA status, an overwhelming majority of these individuals have enrolled in school or found employment. Most have also increased their average earnings and many have served in the military, opened businesses or purchased homes. We did not support the way that President Obama established this program and usurped Congressional law making authority. However, these individuals have come forward and provided the federal government with their personal information and biometrics. It would be wrong to go back on our word and subject these individuals to deportation. In February, President Trump stated that DACA recipients are “incredible kids” and that he was going to “deal with DACA with heart.” We are encouraged by previous statements made by the White House. Regardless, these individuals’ status in the United States should not be left to the political winds of different administrations that come to power. Congress has a responsibility and a duty to address this problem legislatively and was robbed of the opportunity to do so when President Obama issued his June 2012 memorandum. We are willing and ready to find a solution no matter what action is taken by President Trump in the coming days and encourage you to work with us as soon as possible to do so. Respectfully,
08.25.2017	PASCO – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) was honored at the Tri-City Regional Chamber’s August Membership Luncheon in Pasco on Wednesday, August 24th, when he was presented with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce “Spirit of Enterprise Award” for his support of pro-growth, pro-jobs policies in Congress. “Creating jobs, growing our economy, and boosting trade opportunities for Washington state exporters are my priorities in Congress,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Receiving the Spirit of Enterprise Award is an honor, and I will continue to support policies that encourage American entrepreneurship.” “Businesses of all shapes and sizes need sound, commonsense policy in place in order to get off the ground, grow, and succeed,” said Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “The Spirit of Enterprise Award recognizes those members of Congress who have done what’s right for our friends, family, and neighbors running businesses across the country. We applaud Rep. Dan Newhouse for his commitment to free enterprise and economic growth.” The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation This is the 29th year that the U.S. Chamber has formally honored the accomplishments of this select group of members of Congress, and the second time that Rep. Newhouse has received the award. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business federation representing the interests of more than 3 million businesses of all sizes, sectors, and regions, as well as state and local chambers and industry associations.
08.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after securing a recommendation from the U.S. Forest Service Pacific Northwest Region to maintain the North Cascades Smokejumper Base in Winthrop, WA. “I am pleased to report that the U.S Forest Service informed me today that it finalized and adopted a recommendation to maintain the North Cascade Smokejumper Base in Winthrop,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This is an important step in the right direction, and I was happy to work in Congress to help move this decision forward. The Smokejumper base contributes to the local economy as well as the disaster preparedness level of the local community, and I will continue to support keeping it in Winthrop.” In July, Rep. Newhouse ensured that the Interior Appropriations bill approved by the House Appropriations Committee included his language supporting the North Cascades Smokejumper Base remaining in Winthrop. The language below was added to the bill report: “The Committee is aware the North Cascades Smokejumper Base may need facility upgrades, improvements, and renovations to meet Federal Aviation Administration compliance standards and requirements. The Committee understands the value to the local community of maintaining the North Cascades Smokejumper Base in Winthrop, Washington, and appreciates the site’s historical significance as the birthplace of the United States’ Smokejumping program. The Committee directs the [U.S. Forest Service] provide a report on the needs of the North Cascades Smokejumper Base, as well as its other smokejumper bases, and to include in the report a description of the effect each has on the economy and disaster preparedness level of its local community.”
08.03.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Transportation announced a grant for transportation projects in Grant County: “Completing the Northern Columbia Basin Rail Project will create a more efficient and reliable rail system,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The federal government has an important role to play when it comes to modernizing America’s aging infrastructure, and this award is great news for development in Grant County.” Grant Description: The project will complete construction of the Northern Columbia Basin Rail Project. The project will (1) construct a new, approximately 4.5-mile line along the Wheeler Industrial Corridor and reroute existing aging rail infrastructure to this new route; (2) construct approximately three miles of new rail lines to access industrial lands adjacent to the Grant County International Airport; and (3) upgrade and modernize approximately three miles of existing rail line to current standards. Additional details can be found here.
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on the Senate’s vote last night on health care legislation: “I am deeply disappointed that after the House passed a bill to repeal and replace Obamacare, the Senate failed to send any proposal in return for a conference,” said Rep. Newhouse. “For families facing higher insurance premiums and fewer options, nothing has changed: the Affordable Care Act is still broken, and leaving it in place as is will not fix it. The status quo is unsustainable and unacceptable, and I will continue to work in Congress to fix our health care system for families in Central Washington.”
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the U.S. House approved H.R. 3219, the Make America Secure Appropriations Act, to fund the military, raise our troops’ pay, support defense nuclear waste cleanup at Hanford, and support research at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. As a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, Rep. Newhouse worked to reverse the Trump Administration’s proposed cuts to the Richland Operations Office (RL). The House legislation passed today includes $54 million more than the President’s FY2018 request. “The most important job we have as Members of Congress is ensuring the safety of our nation,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This critical legislation prioritizes funding for vital components of our national security. It directs funding for our troops’ pay, including a 2.4 percent increase – the largest military pay increase in eight years. It provides appropriations to ensure our military has the necessary equipment to keep the nation safe from the threats we face. I am also proud this bill includes a bipartisan measure my colleague Rep. Derek Kilmer and I worked on to ensure the VA undertakes a framework to address systemic problems facing our veterans.” Rep. Newhouse continued: “Today’s bill is important for Hanford; the legislation approved today provides strong funding for the Office of River Protection (ORP) that is critical to continue progress in the tank farms and at the Waste Treatment Plant. Reversing the cuts in the President’s budget was the right thing to do to fulfill the federal government’s obligation to clean up Hanford.” Rep. Newhouse continued: “The Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) is one of our nation’s top national laboratories, as well as a major economic asset to Central Washington that employs thousands of researchers. This legislation provides a down payment on congressional support for PNNL to continue its scientific contributions in service of the nation.” Background: H.R. 3219 includes the language of the VA Management Alignment Act of 2017, introduced by Rep. Newhouse and Rep. Derek Kilmer (R-WA), which would direct the head of the VA to issue a report to Congress detailing the steps they will take to reorganize and effectively improve veterans’ access to quality care. The legislation, supported by the American Legion and the American Federation of Government Employees, follows the release of comprehensive studies that uncovered management problems at the VHA. The reports that have been issued so far by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) have uncovered problems with the VA’s human resource department and that the VA did not follow through on internal and Congressional recommendations to fix the problems of manipulated wait times and management failures.
07.26.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) announced the launch of the 4th Congressional District’s third Congressional App Challenge (CAC), a nationwide app competition for students in high school and below. “The Congressional App Challenge is a great opportunity for our high school students to highlight their creativity while building upon their STEM skills,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I encourage all students in Central Washington who are interested in coding to participate.” The Challenge will run through November 1, 2017. The Competition is open to all students who meet the eligibility requirements, regardless of coding experience. Students of all skill levels are encouraged to participate and to learn how to create their own apps. Winners will be selected by a panel of judges and be given congressional recognition for their achievements in STEM and Computer Science. Their apps will be featured on a display in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C., on house.gov, and on the Congressional App Challenge website. Last year’s App Challenge winners, Tobias Williams, Elijah Stidham, and Jamas Middleton, students at Tri-Tech Skills Center, won the challenge with the app they designed called "Trinity Complex". The CAC was created because Congress recognized that STEM and computer-based skills are essential for economic growth and innovation, and that the U.S. has been falling behind on these fronts. By some estimates, the U.S. may be short by as many as one million programmers by 2020. These are high-paying, high-demand jobs. To maintain American competitiveness, it is crucial that the U.S. invests in our youth now, and help them acquire these valuable skills. The CAC encourages students to pursue those skills and recognizes them for their efforts. The Internet Education Foundation will be serving as the operational “sponsor” of the CAC. For further information about the Congressional App Challenge, please visit www.congressionalappchallenge.us, Newhouse.house.gov, or contact Matt Pettit, Staff Assistant in Rep. Newhouse’s D.C. office, at Matt.Pettit@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-5816.
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 3364, the Russia, Iran, and North Korea Sanctions Act, which passed the U.S. House on a vote of 419-3: “Hostile regimes that threaten U.S. national security or our allies must be put on notice that there will always be a heavy price to pay,” said Rep. Newhouse. “In light of the threat posed by North Korea, Russia, and Iran, leverage is needed to pressure their leaders. Congress should exercise oversight to ensure that sanctions are implemented against regimes that threaten the U.S. and our interests.”
07.19.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) testified before the House Natural Resources Committee at a legislative hearing on his bill, H.R. 1274, the State, Tribal, and Local Species Transparency and Recovery Act. H.R. 1274 would amend the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (ESA) to require the federal government to disclose to affected states all data used prior to any ESA listing decisions and require that the “best available scientific and commercial data” used by the federal government include information provided by affected states, tribes, and local governments. Click Here to Watch Rep. Newhouse’s Testimony on ESA Transparency Legislation Transcript of Rep. Newhouse’s testimony today: Thank you very much Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member Grijalva, and Members of the Committee. It’s great to be back with all of you as well. I want to thank you for the opportunity to address this Committee in support of my legislation, H.R. 1274, the “State, Tribal, and Local Species Transparency and Recovery Act.” And yes, we need a couple more words in there. This legislation is simple, and logical—by including state and local entities in federal determinations and decision-making, we can improve policy-making and reduce the impacts on states, municipalities, tribes, and local stakeholders, all while ensuring endangered species listing decisions include the best, pertinent data involved in such matters. Federal agencies like the Fish & Wildlife Service are currently not required to share the underlying data used in listing decisions made under ESA with the states or local entities that would be impacted by such listing decisions. These agencies too often overlook local conservation plans that are developed to ensure the protection of native species and habitats. These local efforts should not be disregarded, for oftentimes, the counties or the local municipalities are among the best sources of information. Local stakeholders deserve to know whether their hard work is taken into consideration long before the end result of a federal listing decision is made public. My bill will amend the ESA to simply require that federal agencies disclose all data used to promulgate a potential or final listing determination to the states and local jurisdictions affected by federal regulatory actions. The legislation also gives local stakeholders the opportunity to verify, dispute, or complement the information the federal agencies use in ESA listings. There have been too many examples of states’ data and species recovery plans having been effectively ignored by federal agencies, even after earnest and costly efforts were made to develop comprehensive and effective plans at the local level. By providing states, tribes, and localities the data used to promulgate these proposed listings, an opportunity arises for local stakeholders to get involved and have their voices heard. Two cases in my own district in Central Washington come to mind regarding transparency of federal decision-making involving specific species. Earlier just this year, the National Park Service and Fish & Wildlife released a draft plan to reintroduce in the North Cascades Ecosystem the grizzly bear. Both agencies claim the bears will be joining an existing grizzly population, however the last confirmed sighting of a grizzly bear in that area was in 1996. The people living in these communities deserve to know what data these federal agencies are basing their decisions on. I have expressed my deep concerns regarding the lack of sound science and data to support this decision and will continue to do so. The case of the gray wolf also comes to mind. The Department of the Interior and the Fish & Wildlife Service published a proposed rule that would remove the gray wolf’s listing over four years ago—and even found the “best available scientific and commercial information indicates that the currently listed entity is not a valid species under the Act.” Yet, the wolf remains listed. The gray wolf is found in nearly 50 countries around the world and has grown substantially across its range. I can attest to that. I will continue to be a firm advocate of delisting the gray wolf and returning its management to the states. On a final note, Mr. Chairman, I often share with my constituents that, as a farmer, I consider myself a conservationist and a true steward of the gifts God has given us. Farmers are on the forefront of protecting our nation’s rich, natural heritage. I believe it is important that we preserve our forests, our natural resources, and wildlife for our children as well as our grandchildren to enjoy. This legislation will only strengthen that effort. By modernizing the Endangered Species Act, we can ensure its effectiveness in protecting imperiled species successfully. I look forward to working with you and with the Committee to move this legislation forward, and again thank you for the opportunity. An earlier version of H.R. 1274 passed the House in the 113th Congress. Rep. Newhouse introduced H.R. 1274 on March 1. The State, Tribal, and Local Species Transparency and Recovery Act was cosponsored by Reps., Ralph Abraham (R-LA), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Paul Gosar (R-AZ), Gregg Harper (R-MS), Walter Jones (R-NC), Roger Marshall (R-KS), Steve Pearce (R-NM), Scott Tipton (R-CO), and Ted Yoho (R-FL). Click here for the bill text.
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House Committee on Appropriations approved the Fiscal Year 2018 Homeland Security Appropriations Act. The legislation provides for critical programs such as border and immigration enforcement, customs activities, protection against cyberterrorism, aviation security, natural disaster response, and border security. The legislation includes report language Rep. Newhouse worked on with Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL) to recognize the economic stress that can be placed on rural regions following a natural disaster such as a major wildfire. The report language included by Reps. Newhouse and Davis specifically recognizes that many rural communities located in states with large population centers are often disadvantaged by the disaster declaration and federal assistance program processes. “In rural areas of states such as Washington, our communities face the threat of catastrophic wildfires, and FEMA’s public assistance program should treat rural communities fairly when administrating disaster relief,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The report language included in this legislation ensures FEMA will address the current imbalance in public assistance administered to states and localities.” Background: H.R. 1665, the Disaster Declaration Improvement Act, was passed unanimously by the House on May 5, 2017 and would require the Administrator of FEMA, in making recommendations to the President regarding a major disaster declaration, to give greater weight and consideration to severe local impact of disasters. Rep. Newhouse’s report language included the Fiscal Year 2018 Homeland Security Appropriations Act directs FEMA to brief the Appropriations Committee not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of H.R. 1665 on how FEMA would implement this directive if enacted in law. FEMA’s Public Assistance Program provides assistance for emergency work and the repair or replacement of disaster-damaged facilities and communities as well as Hazard Mitigation Grant programs.
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House Committee on Appropriations approved the Fiscal Year 2018 Homeland Security Appropriations Act. The legislation provides for critical programs such as border and immigration enforcement, customs activities, protection against cyberterrorism, aviation security, natural disaster response, border security, and temporary guest-workers. Rep. Newhouse’s bipartisan amendment applies the H-2A program to all of agriculture: “Today, large segments of American agriculture face a critical lack of workers, a problem made worse by the fact that the H-2A program is not working for all of agriculture,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Modern agriculture techniques that have become less ‘seasonal’ demand an update to this program because many segments of the agriculture industry are either no longer seasonal or have multiple harvests, one after the other. H-2A must be made more workable for farmers, and my amendment clarifies that all of agriculture may use H-2A so it operates effectively as our nation’s Ag guest worker program. My amendment does not change the time limits a worker employed through the H-2A program can stay in the U.S., and it would not change the requirements on farmers to show they are first hiring domestic workers. This amendment is a small starting point of relief we can provide our farmers who need access to workers.” Newhouse H-2A Amendment Summary: Rep. Newhouse’s amendment clarifies that for FY2018 all of agriculture may use the H-2A program. Under the amendment, H-2A would still remain a temporary program. Additionally, the amendment would not change the time limits a worker employed through the H-2A program can stay in the U.S., and it would maintain the requirement that farmers show they are advertising open positions and are trying to hire domestic workers first. The amendment would simply ensure that all of agriculture is able to utilize the program. The agriculture industry’s labor situation has been a concern for many years, and currently large segments of American agriculture face a critical shortage of workers. This shortfall is exacerbated by the fact that the H-2A program is not working for all of agriculture, such as dairies and agriculture operations with multiple crops and harvests.
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House of Representatives unanimously approved his bill, H.R. 2828, to provide for a “commencement of construction” deadline extension for the Enloe Dam Hydroelectric Project that is being developed in Washington State by the Okanogan Public Utility District: “The proposed Enloe Dam Hydroelectric Project makes economic and environmental sense, as it will convert currently untapped energy in existing flow releases into clean, renewable energy,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Completion of the project will provide Washingtonians and the Pacific Northwest region with a clean, renewable energy resource that generates an estimated 45,000 megawatt hours per year of carbon-free, renewable power. Approval of this legislation will allow for the electrification of this critical hydropower facility to move forward under a realistic regulatory timeline and in a manner consistent with prior congressional actions on similar projects. By passing this measure and extending the commencement of construction deadline for the Enloe Dam Hydroelectric Project, Congress can help spur hydropower development in Central Washington and ensure the project’s many benefits are realized.” Background: On July 9, 2013, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) granted the Okanogan Public Utility District an original license for the Enloe Dam Hydroelectric Project, which will electrify the existing Enloe Dam that is situated about 3.5 miles northwest of the City of Oroville in the State of Washington. The current Enloe Dam was constructed in 1920 on Bureau of Land Management (BLM) land for power generation. However, operations ceased in 1958 when the extension of Bonneville Power Administration’s high voltage transmission line into the Okanogan Valley provided a less expensive source of electricity. The Enloe Dam Hydroelectric Project will have a smaller footprint than the decommissioned facility but will provide approximately three times the generating capacity.
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House Committee on Appropriations approved the Fiscal Year 2018 Department of Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. This legislation provides annual funding for the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the U.S. Forest Service, the Indian Health Service, and various independent and related agencies. The legislation included Rep. Newhouse’s measures that are priorities for Central Washington, including the North Cascades Smokejumper Base, gray wolf delisting, the Wolf-Livestock Loss Demonstration Program, requiring the EPA to adhere to the law’s intended scope rather than expanding regulations to target farmers, and grazing management. “By approving this legislation, the Committee is providing for critical priorities for rural communities across the country and in Central Washington,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I am pleased that my language was included supporting the North Cascades Smokejumper Base remaining in Winthrop and directing the U.S. Forest Service provide a report on the needs of the base and the effect it has on the economy and disaster preparedness level of its local community. It is also important for federal agencies to move forward with rules to delist the gray wolf and to help farmers with livestock losses due to wolves’ predation. Additionally, concerns raised by my constituents have underscored the need to ensure that the Forest Service’s process for grazing should be open and transparent for all ranchers. Finally, this legislation aims to ensure that EPA no longer funds campaigns like ‘What’s Upstream.’” The legislation includes the following measures and report language offered by Rep. Newhouse: North Cascades Smokejumper Base – Rep. Newhouse had language included in the Manager’s Amendment that was adopted in the full committee mark-up today. The language below will be added to the report under “Wildland Fire Preparedness” on page 76: “The Committee is aware the North Cascades Smokejumper Base may need facility upgrades, improvements, and renovations to meet Federal Aviation Administration compliance standards and requirements. The Committee understands the value to the local community of maintaining the North Cascades Smokejumper Base in Winthrop, Washington, and appreciates the site’s historical significance as the birthplace of the United States’ Smokejumping program. The Committee directs the [U.S. Forest Service] provide a report on the needs of the North Cascades Smokejumper Base, as well as its other smokejumper bases, and to include in the report a description of the effect each has on the economy and disaster preparedness level of its local community.” Promoting the De-Listing of the Gray Wolf – Rep. Newhouse’s amendment to prohibit the U.S. Department of Interior and U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service from using any funds to continue treating the gray wolf under the Endangered Species Act was included. The amendment does not delist the gray wolf but encourages U.S. Fish & Wildlife to move forward with its own proposed delisting rule. See page 62 of the Bill Text. The bill also includes Rep. Newhouse’s language directing the Secretary of Interior to reissue the final rule delisting recovered gray wolves in Wyoming and the Western Great Lakes, consistent with congressional action on recovered gray wolves in Idaho and Montana in the fiscal year 2011 appropriation. See page 15 of the Report. Wolf-Livestock Loss Demonstration Program: Rep. Newhouse’s amendment last year on the Wolf-Livestock Loss Demonstration Program was included in this year’s legislation to continue the program’s funding. See page 15 of the Report. What’s Upstream and Prohibiton on Lobbying/Advocacy with Federal Funds – Rep. Newhouse’s amendment last year was included this year to address the EPA-funded, anti-agriculture “What’s Upstream” lobbying campaign in Washington State. The amendment reiterates current law by prohibiting funds from being used in support of grassroots advocacy campaigns whose efforts are intended to persuade the outcomes of legislation in either Congress or other official in federal or state governments. “TITLE IV – GENERAL PROVISIONS (INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS) – RESTRICTION ON USE OF FUNDS – SEC. 401. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall be available for any activity or the publication or distribution of literature that in any way tends to promote public support or opposition to any legislative proposal on which Congressional action is not complete other than to communicate to Members of Congress as described in 18 U.S.C. 1913.” See page 117 of the Bill Text. In 2015, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) concluded that EPA violated prohibitions against publicity or propaganda and grassroots lobbying contained in appropriations Acts. The Committee is also aware that grant funds were used to support billboards, websites and other advocacy efforts in the Pacific Northwest. The Committee reminds EPA that funding may not be used in a manner contrary to Section 401 of this bill.” See page 59 of the Report. Grazing Management and Permits— Rep. Newhouse’s language was included for the Committee to request each Forest Service region increase transparency and reporting on how their monitoring resources are used on the ground to satisfy monitoring requirements or for other purposes. See page 72 of the Report.
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today released the following statement after the House approved the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (NDAA) on a vote of 344-81. The legislation will next be considered in the Senate: “Keeping our nation safe requires investments in our military and national defense, and I was proud to vote in favor of this legislation to authorize critical funding for our national security, including the largest pay increase for our troops in eight years,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This bill helps equip and train our Armed Forces and begins the vital process of rebuilding our military, while implementing much-need reforms at the Department of Defense. NDAA includes authorization for defense-related priorities in Central Washington, especially Hanford cleanup and improved firefighting capabilities at the Yakima Training Center.” Click here for more information on the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA).
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke announced that the protected status of the Hanford Reach National Monument is no longer under federal review, and that no alterations will be made to the monument’s boundaries . The monuments were under review in accordance with President Donald J. Trump’s April 26, 2017, executive order. “I am pleased that Secretary Zinke listened to concerns shared by me and Washington representatives that no modifications should be made to the Hanford Reach National Monument,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The Hanford Reach is an irreplaceable natural and cultural treasure in Central Washington, and it should be protected for future generations to enjoy. I worked with my House colleagues to recommend to the Secretary that no action be taken to rescind the Hanford Reach National Monument and that no changes be made to boundaries of the National Monument. However, I will continue to press the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to take steps to ensure public access is allowed to the summit of Rattlesnake Mountain, including motorized access. There is no reason the public should not be able to visit the summit, and Washingtonians deserve the opportunity to experience this historic national monument. I strongly believe public access to federal lands, in both the West and throughout the country, should not be obstructed, so that all Americans can enjoy our treasured public lands.” Click here to view the June 30th letter sent to Secretary Zinke by the Congressional Western Caucus that includes Rep. Newhouse’s recommendation on the Hanford Reach National Monument. Background: President Clinton established the Hanford Reach National Monument in 2000, which includes the last free-flowing, non-tidal stretch of the Columbia River in the U.S., as well as a biologically diverse landscape and wide spectrum of scientific and historic objects. More than 10,000 years of human history are preserved throughout the monument and Hanford Reach is a treasure that merits the protection and preservation provided by its designation as a national monument.
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House Appropriations Committee marked up the agriculture appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2018. The legislation passed by the committee includes priorities championed by Rep. Newhouse including funding for hops research, directions for the Food and Drug Administration to conduct a study on the distinction between grape varietals rarely consumed raw, and provides funding for the Market Access Program (MAP) and Foreign Market Development (FMD) programs. “I am pleased to join my colleagues in advancing this legislation that makes progress on priorities for our farmers and rural America,” stated Rep. Newhouse. “I appreciated working with the Committee to include priorities for Washington agriculture to reduce regulatory red tape, advance research and support programs that help us export our commodities to the global consumer.” Additionally, Rep. Newhouse’s amendment to alleviate the shortage of farm labor housing by ensuring that legal H-2A workers are eligible to use housing provided by Section 514 was adopted unanimously: “In communities like Central Washington, we see the success of the Section 514 loans that are provided to buy, build, improve, and repair housing for farm laborers,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Despite the investment we have provided to ensure housing for workers, those legally-admitted temporary laborers, such as H-2A workers, remain ineligible to use this housing. H-2A employment has doubled in the past four years and will likely continue to grow in coming years. Section 514 loans should reflect that reality and not exclude these workers from using housing intended for farm laborers. As we have witnessed a decrease in domestic workers seeking jobs in agriculture, we have seen an increase in H-2A workers, thus creating Section 514 housing that is going underutilized. I am pleased that my amendment was included in the legislation marked up today.” Click here to watch debate on Rep. Newhouse’s amendment. Background: Newhouse Farm Labor Housing Amendment: Section 514 loans are provided to buy, build, improve, and repair housing for farm laborers. Currently, those legally admitted temporary laborers, such as H-2A workers (agriculture guest workers), remain ineligible to use this housing. Rep. Newhouse’s amendment would allow section 514 housing to be used for both domestic and H-2A workers in situations where housing units are currently unoccupied or underutilized. Hops Research: The bill provides for $1,000,000 in hops research. This is a first step enhancement reinstating the existing program to 2.0 Full Time Employees to allow two full-time scientists and retains pass-through funding to Washington State University. Last year, Rep. Newhouse led colleagues on a request to increase hops research. U.S. Food and Drug Administration Grape Varietal: Report language directs the FDA to conduct a study on the distinction between grape varietals rarely consumed raw, reducing regulatory burdens for our wine grape growers. Market Access Program (MAP) - Foreign Market Development (FMD): The bill contains language continuing the mandatory funding of the MAP program and rejecting the President’s proposed cut.
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House Appropriations Committee’s full committee markup on the fiscal year 2018 Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. The legislation passed by the committee included funding for previously authorized phases of the Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project, Small Modular Reactor development and deployment, and hydropower and nuclear energy, as well as language prohibiting the removal of federal dams and protecting Americans’ 2nd Amendment rights on Army Corps of Engineers land. “This legislation appropriates funds to support Central Washington water storage projects and agencies responsible for managing water infrastructure across the country,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I am pleased that the bill includes language I worked on with my Pacific Northwest colleagues to protect federal dams – including the four lower Snake River dams. Additionally, the bill advances U.S. energy independence by supporting the development of important energy sources and technologies, from nuclear and Small Modular Reactors, to hydropower, grid security, and electricity storage.” Central Washington priorities in the FY2018 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill include funding for continued implementation of the Columbia River Treaty, operations and management resources for the Chief Joseph, Ice Harbor, and Lower Monumental Dams, and funding for important water management projects in the Columbia Basin and the Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project. Additionally, mitigation efforts for fish impacts in the Columbia River continue to receive funding. Key report language in the legislation is listed below: Dam removal prohibition: “The bill includes a provision prohibiting the use of funds for the removal of any federally owned or operated dam unless the removal was previously authorized by Congress.” Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project: “The Committee is aware of the Integrated Plan that has been developed by the Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project Working Group, including the Bureau of Reclamation, to address water storage and water supply needs for agriculture, fish, and municipalities within the Yakima River Basin in Central Washington. The Committee is supportive of the Plan and encourages the Bureau to move forward on implementing authorized components of the Plan.” Bonneville Power Administration Cost Competitiveness “The Committee encourages the Corps of Engineers and Bureau of Reclamation to work with the BPA on efforts to drive down costs and promote BPA’s long-term competitiveness. Assuring BPA competitiveness is important not only for BPA’s operation, but to ensure Treasury repayment and assist the Corps and Reclamation in meeting their core functions (including navigation, flood control, water supply, and irrigation).”
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House Appropriations Committee approved the fiscal year 2018 Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill, which appropriates funding for Hanford cleanup. As a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, Rep. Newhouse worked with colleagues to reverse the Trump Administration’s proposed cuts to the Richland Operations Office (RL). The House legislation passed today in committee includes $54 million more than the President’s FY2018 request. “The legislation approved by the Appropriations Committee has rejected the President’s proposed cuts to the Richland Operations Office (RL) and was a top priority of mine in order to support funding for continued Hanford cleanup,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Additionally, ensuring the Office of River Protection (ORP) received strong funding was critical to continue progress in the tank farms and at the Waste Treatment Plant. The federal government has a legal and moral obligation to Central Washington, and I am pleased that the appropriations process in the House has restored funding to fulfill the government’s duty to prioritize Hanford cleanup. By responsibly funding these cleanup activities, we can prevent costly delays and ultimately save significantly more money in the long run." “This bill also provides critical funding for the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL), which is one of our country’s foremost national laboratories, as well as a major economic driver in the State of Washington and throughout the Pacific Northwest. The Lab is one of the largest employers in Central Washington, and I am committed to working with my colleagues in Congress to provide the resources necessary for PNNL , so they can continue making innovative and groundbreaking scientific developments in fields such as science, cybersecurity, energy, environment, national security, grid reliability, and nuclear nonproliferation, just to name a few. While there are areas of the bill that can be improved, I believe this is a promising first step in continuing strong congressional support for our scientists at PNNL who have made countless vital scientific and technological contributions to our community and country.” Click here for the FY2018 Energy & Water Development report language. Click here for the FY2018 Energy & Water Development bill text.
07.06.2017	Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) will host a Jobs Fair in Yakima on Saturday, July 8th from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. The Jobs Fair is free and open to individuals of all ages and their families in Central Washington. Employers looking to hire and job training organizations who are interested in participating are encouraged to contact Kate Adkison in Congressman Newhouse’s Yakima office at (509) 452-3243. See below for an updated list of participating employers: Arvato Digital Services BatonUSA Cabela's City of Yakima - Police, Fire, Corrections Colonial Life Insurance Employer Support for the Guard and Reserve Enterprise for Progress In the Community (EPIC) FedEx Express​ First Fruits of Washington Gesa Credit Union ​ Iron Mountain Construction Management KIMA KUNW CW9 Television National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) Yakima New York Life People for People Rent-a-Center South East Washington Aging and Long-Term Care (ALTC) U.S. Air Force U.S. Army United Way of Central Washington Virginia Mason Memorial Hospital Washington National Guard Washington State Department of Transportation Washington State Employment Security VETS Washington State Microenterprise Association Yakima County Sheriff’s Office Yakima Police Department Yakima Valley School – DDA/DHS
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Pacific Northwest Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Dan Newhouse (WA-04), Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03), Kurt Schrader (OR-05), and Greg Walden (OR-02) introduced bipartisan legislation to approve the Federal Columbia River Power System (FCRPS) Biological Opinion (BiOp) until 2022. This legislation will work to support the FCRPS and the benefit it brings to our region through the clean, renewable, and affordable energy it provides while allowing salmon to recover at record rates. “Removing the Snake River dams would be harmful to our communities, the environment, and our economy,” said Newhouse. “This legislation is needed to support the critical role that Snake River dams play by providing Washington communities with clean, renewable hydropower. In addition, hydropower dams provide many benefits to our region, including flood control, navigation, irrigation, and recreation, which is why this legislation is needed to ensure the Federal Columbia River Power System Biological Opinion remains in effect until 2022. I am proud to work with my colleagues on this commonsense bill to protect our dams.” “Hydropower provides 70 percent of our energy in Washington state—much of which is produced on the Federal Columbia River Power System,” said McMorris Rodgers. “The FCRPS ensures people in Eastern Washington have access to clean, renewable, reliable, and affordable energy every single day—all while achieving record fish returns. There is still work to be done, but dams and fish can coexist, and the FCRPS proves that.” “Vibrant salmon runs are vital to our way of life. Low cost, clean and extremely reliable energy from hydroelectricity powers everything we do. The 2014 BiOp plan represents the best possible path forward to preserve both, which is why it had such broad support from Republicans and Democrats, solution-minded members of the conservation community, farmers, businesses and other stakeholders across our region. Leaving the future of this vital system mired in the courts will result in its failure. Our bipartisan legislation is the only way to ensure a positive outcome for our region," said Herrera Beutler. “Consider what’s at stake if we fail to protect our vital hydropower infrastructure. Hundreds of millions of ratepayer dollars have successfully adapted it to accommodate record salmon runs, where an average of 97% of young salmon successfully make it past the dams. To replace the energy produced by these dams and consumed by our region, we’d need more than six coal-fired power plants or three nuclear facilities to get the reliability that clean, carbon-free hydropower provides to the Pacific Northwest. No one seriously believes wind and solar alone could supplant hydropower in our region. This legislation is the only real path forward to protect our way of life.” “It is time for science, not politics, to drive our energy and salmon restoration policy,” said Schrader. “The BiOp has been the product of three administrations’ work that’s been informed by our experts at BPA, the Corps, NMFS, USFW, tribes, energy groups, and environmental groups. It would be imprudent at best to cast all of that informed work aside. Over one third of our electric bills pay for fish passage on the Columbia River with 95% passage rates. It is time to get politics out and let the experts backed by science determine best practices.” “As we work to improve fish runs, we must not lose sight of the importance to the region of renewable hydropower, recreation, and transportation,” said Walden. “The uncertainty created by on-going litigation over operations impacts all of that. This legislation will provide more certainty that’s needed to help operation of the system to maintain these important benefits to all of the Pacific Northwest.”NOTE: In May, a bipartisan group of Members from Washington and Oregon wrote a letter expressing concerns over the management of the FCRPS following Judge Michael Simon’s March 27, 2017, court order on motions for injunctive relief. After receiving responses from the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) and other officials regarding the implications of Judge Simon’s decision, it’s clear that action must be taken to protect ratepayers in the Pacific Northwest and allow the experts to continue their work on fish recovery. In BPA’s June response, they noted $15.28 billion in total spending since 1978 on fish recovery and mitigation in the FCRPS. They also reported that average juvenile dam passage survival currently ranges between 96 and 99 percent for yearling Chinook salmon and steelhead smolts at each dam. In response to Judge Simon’s ordering of increased spill over the dams, BPA said consequences could cause “biological, physical and/or structural, and potential adverse consequences for the combined federal power and transmission system.” As the Bonneville Power Administration begins their rate case in 2025 and moves forward in negotiating with utilities, they need to have certainty in their pricing. The current state of litigation has resulted in requirements that are unsustainable and jeopardize the future of energy production in the Pacific Northwest. Hydropower is the largest form of renewable energy in the United States. The FCRPS BiOp helps ensure that the Pacific Northwest has access to clean, renewable, and affordable energy to power homes, businesses, and communities. The FCRPS BiOp was the product of unprecedented collaboration between President Barack Obama’s administration, states, and sovereign Northwest tribes. The BiOp has helped to produce record fish returns through the use of modern, innovative technology, and has widespread support in the region. You can read the full text of the legislation here.
06.23.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), and Rep. Collin Peterson (D-MN) led 35 other Members to introduce H.R. 3034, a bipartisan resolution recognizing the legacy of Justin Smith Morrill, the founder of the land-grant university system, by posthumously awarding him the Congressional Gold Medal. Rep. Newhouse: “As a farmer and graduate of Washington State University, I am personally grateful, along with the millions of men and women who have attended land-grant universities, for the legacy of Justin Smith Morrill. Justin Smith Morrill is a man who has provided generations and millions of Americans – particularly those from working class families and rural communities – with access to higher education throughout the nation. His achievements have inspired American history, values, and culture, and will be recognized and honored by generations to come. For these reasons, it is fitting to bestow Senator Justin Smith Morrill, a great American hero, with a Congressional Gold Medal.” Rep. Peterson: “The land-grant university system established by Justin Smith Morrill plays an important role in agricultural research, extension and educational programs. Through land-grant universities, researchers have been able to help farmers increase productivity, prevent plant and animal disease, improve human nutrition and health, and discover and utilize new technologies. I am pleased to honor Justin Smith Morrill’s legacy.” Monica Lee Morrill, Descendant of Justin Smith Morrill: “It's humbling and encouraging to reflect on the enduring history of Justin Smith Morrill's public service. In the U.S. House of Representatives and in the U.S. Senate he had a boundless passion for all Americans to have the opportunities to engage in economic, agricultural, and educational research and innovation. Justin Morrill's policies, which I've studied for over 20 years, also created a space beyond college campuses -- visitors and residents of Washington, D.C. equally relish the architecture, landscaping and geographical intent Senator Morrill worked so diligently to achieve, so that generations later we enjoy the lasting impact he made on our nation’s capital. He was a man who honored his oath to the U.S. Constitution in word and deed. I am deeply touched that so many diverse members in the U.S. Congress believe his public service is exemplary and admirable. In this way, Senator Morrill is not just my relative, but a member of the family to all Americans who cherish our precious liberties.” Ron Mittelhammer, Dean, College of Agricultural, Human, and Natural Resource Sciences, Washington State University: “Washington State University, and its College of Agricultural, Human, and Natural Resource Sciences, are deeply appreciative and strongly supportive of the resolution to award Justin Smith Morrill with the Congressional Gold Medal. Morrill was an educational visionary whose work in Congress resulted in nothing less than a new educational order in the United States. Through legislation that he sponsored, ‘Land Grant’ Universities were ultimately created and supported in every state, and these institutions were charged with having broad scientific and practical reach, as well as explicit public purpose. Another of Morrill’s impactful visions for the land grant university system was to provide broad access to educational opportunities. The Land Grant Universities have to date graduated 11 U.S. Presidents, and educated tens of millions of Americans. Moreover, Morrill’s land grant system of universities led to the most advanced and impactful agricultural research programs in the world. The work of Justin Smith Morrill was truly transformational for this country, and for its citizens.” Background: The Honorable Justin Smith Morrill (April 14, 1810 – December 28, 1898), the son of a blacksmith and farmer, was born in Strafford, Vermont. He prospered as a merchant and businessman in his early years and served in public office the remainder of his life. Morrill was elected to six terms in the U.S. House of Representatives (1855-1867) and six terms in the United States Senate (1867-1898), making him the longest serving Member of Congress in the 19th Century. During his tenure, he chaired the House Committee on Ways and Means, the Senate Committee on Finance, and the Senate Committee on Public Buildings and Grounds. In Congress, he authored his namesake, the Morrill Act of 1862 which created the land-grant university system. Today, land-grant and other public universities award nearly 1 million degrees annually and perform more than $37 billion in research. In 1890, he authored the second Morrill Act, which created historically black land-grant universities. As the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Buildings and Grounds, he served as the principle advocate for financing and constructing the Thomas Jefferson Building of the Library of Congress and planned the location of the U.S. Supreme Court Building. He also raised funds to complete the unfinished Washington Monument and advocated for the Smithsonian Institution throughout his service in Congress. For the text of the resolution, click here. Introduced by Reps. Newhouse and Peterson, additional cosponsors include: Reps. Ralph Abraham (LA), Don Beyer (VA), Mike Bost (IL), K. Michael Conaway (TX), John K. Delaney (MD), Suzan K. DelBene (WA), Paul A. Gosar (AZ), Jody B. Hice (GA), Evan H. Jenkins (WV), Lynn Jenkins (KS), Ron Kind (WI), Doug LaMalfa (CA), Doug Lamborn (CO), David Loebsack (IA), Frank D. Lucas (OK), James P. McGovern (MA), John R. Moolenaar (MI), Gwen Moore (WI), Donald Norcross (NJ), Steven M. Palazzo (MS), Bill Posey (FL), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA), David Rouzer (NC), Edward R. Royce (CA), Bobby L Rush (IL), David Scott (GA), John Shimkus (IL), Chris Stewart (UT), Glenn GT. Thompson (PA), Michael R. Turner (OH), Jackie Walorski (IN), Timothy J. Walz (MN), Peter Welch (VT), Bruce Westerman (AR), David Young (IA)
06.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Kurt Schrader (D-OR) were joined today by Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Greg Walden (R-OR), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), and Dave Reichert (R-WA) in a bipartisan letter urging President Trump to commence negotiations with Canada over the Columbia River Treaty (CRT) as soon as possible. “Managing the flow of the Columbia River and its tributaries governs our way of life in Central Washington in many ways,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Renegotiating the Columbia River Treaty has an enormous impact on jobs, hydropower, water storage, flood control, and the environment in the Pacific Northwest. It is important to begin formal negotiations as soon as possible to address certain inequities, such as the ‘Canadian Entitlement,’ as well as to ensure we have an updated and equitable treaty for the 21st century. I am encouraged to be joined by my colleagues to request the President’s administration begin proactive engagement on modernizing the treaty with our northern neighbor.” “For more than 50 years the Columbia River Treaty has fostered important cooperation between the U.S. and Canada as it relates to flood control, water storage, and clean renewable hydropower,” said Rep. Schrader. “Through the treaty, our communities along the river have been better protected and able to enjoy the economic growth that clean energy production generates. However, we continue to pay exorbitant sums for Canadian flood control improvements constructed years ago. Renegotiation of this treaty is long overdue. It’s time for our Canadian friends to come to the table in a meaningful way so we can strike a fair deal that reflects where we are in the 21st Century.” Background: Updating the Columbia River Treaty, which has not been revised since it was ratified in 1964, will allow the U.S. and Canada to find solutions for management of the river that could provide new opportunities for cooperation on clean energy solutions, flood control, and economic growth in the Pacific Northwest region. In 2016, Reps. Newhouse and Schrader joined U.S. House and Senate colleagues to call on the U.S. State Department under President Obama to finalize its negotiating parameters and to press Canada to appoint a lead negotiator. Both actions are required for formal discussions to begin. Full text of the letter can be found here. June 21, 2017 President Donald Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to inform you of the importance of renegotiating the Columbia River Treaty (CRT) to the Pacific Northwest region and to request your assistance in commencing negotiations with Canada over the agreement as soon as possible, including use of available negotiation options, such as a “Notice of Termination,” to incentivize Canada to come to the table. The CRT was first established in 1964 to provide the framework for the United States and Canada to invest in greater water storage capabilities in the Columbia River Basin and to increase coordination between our countries on issues such as flood control and power generation, which benefit both nations. For over 50 years, the Treaty provided critical flood control protections and enhanced power generation from clean, renewable hydropower. However, the current agreement is now outdated and needs to be renegotiated in order to ensure the United States, and communities across the Pacific Northwest, are not unduly burdened by provisions contained in the original CRT. While the Treaty has been successful, it also contains various assumptions and shortcomings, which have led to distortions that greatly affect the CRT’s value to the United States beyond its 60-year minimum term. We believe these negotiations provide the United States and your Administration with a unique opportunity to renegotiate this international agreement in a way that protects our country’s interests while strengthening and maintaining our historically strong relationship with Canada. This is an issue of paramount importance to the entire Pacific Northwest region as it affects our economy, power generation, electricity rates, and flood control needs of communities along more than 1,200 miles of the Columbia River and its tributaries. The Treaty provided for the cooperative development of the water resources of the Columbia River Basin, with Canada providing flood control activities in return for compensation derived from power generation in the United States. Over time, inequities have arisen due to the outdated formula by which the United States compensates Canada for power coordination benefits (detailed in Article XIX), with some estimates showing Canada receives almost ten times the benefits that Pacific Northwest interests receive from coordinated system operations, according to studies conducted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) and Bonneville Power Administration (BPA), which along with the State Department serve as the main “U.S. Entity” representing the United States in Treaty negotiations with Canada. The obligation to annually send hydropower benefits to Canada is commonly referred to as the “Canadian Entitlement” and it costs U.S. interests approximately $250 million to $350 million each year. This cost is paid by the 6.4 million Northwest electric customers, represented by more than 80 electric utilities and other entities, who receive power from BPA and the Mid-Columbia Public Utility District’s (PUD), which has clear impacts on power rates paid by Pacific Northwest consumers. Certain provisions related to flood control automatically expire in 2024, yet the majority of the Treaty’s provisions – including the outdated formula comprising the Canadian Entitlement – would continue indefinitely without action. Under the Treaty, either country may terminate some Treaty provisions after September 16, 2024, by providing a ten year advance notice, while other provisions terminate on that date without any action being taken. The record of how the 1964 agreement was reached illustrates that the Treaty’s benefits were calculated on a 60-year lifespan, and that eventual termination of the commercial provisions was fully considered by negotiators, who recognized that long-term planning and market assumptions entailed a high-degree of uncertainty. Both countries carefully crafted and included “exit provisions” in the CRT so that either side would have the option of renegotiating, or terminating, certain “commercial” provisions at the end of the 60-year term. In December of 2013, the U.S. Entity sent its Final Recommendations on the Treaty to the U.S. State Department, which included an emphasis on the importance of rebalancing the sharing of power benefits under the agreement. In October of 2016, the State Department officially notified the Canadian government of its desire to engage in discussions on the CRT, and this notification remains valid with the change in administrations. While Canada has been slow to act on their negotiating authority, the United States does have options to incentivize Canada to come to the table, including the formal issuance of a “Notice of Termination of the Power Provisions,” which is provided for in Article XIX[1] and merely establishes a firm 10-year period to reach a modernized and rebalanced structure. With the potential for negotiations to drag out indefinitely, this “Notice of Termination” could provide the necessary incentive for Canada to enter into formal discussions, which will hopefully lead to a mutual agreement with Canada being reached much sooner. Additionally, the Notice could provide the opportunity to incorporate important lessons learned over the past 50 years, as well as to ensure that a post-2024 Treaty better represents the interests of constituencies in the Pacific Northwest and across the country. Substantial analysis by the U.S. Entity and federal agencies indicates the United States does not receive the reciprocal benefits originally expected in the Treaty, with usable streamflow for hydropower generation well below the amount assumed for in calculation of the Canadian Entitlement. Unless the Treaty is terminated or renegotiated, the U.S. would remain obligated to pay Canada for power coordination benefits, leading the Pacific Northwest region to face losses of approximately $1 million every two to three days. Additionally, under any scenario the CRT must not threaten the operational flexibility of hydropower projects covered by the Treaty, which are the largest sources of clean, renewable power in the region. The Grand Coulee and Chief Joseph dams are particularly critical to the hydropower system, representing about 46 percent of generating capacity and 80 percent of active storage capacity on the U.S. Columbia River. We request that your Administration, and the State Department, take any and all necessary actions to initiate Treaty negotiations with Canada as soon as possible. It is vital that we ensure there is a fair and equitable arrangement for U.S. electricity consumers that addresses the power benefit inequity in the current Treaty, and that U.S. negotiators remain focused on the importance of modernizing the CRT to be compatible with the region’s needs and priorities in the 21st century. The imminent commencement of negotiations is critical to U.S. interests and we urge your Administration to promptly engage with Canada on this matter, so that revisions to the CRT can be reached expeditiously. Thank you for your attention to this important matter and please do not hesitate to contact us if we can be of assistance as preparations for Treaty negotiations are finalized and as formal discussions with Canada commence. Sincerely, [1] Article XIX clearly states that the aspects of the Treaty which can be viewed as more commercial and are associated with joint optimal power coordination and its associated benefit splitting are allowed to be terminated via unilateral action by either country.
06.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Reps Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statement after insurance rate increase requests were filed in Washington State for 2018: "Today, Washington State released its proposed plans and premiums for 2018, and Washingtonians are again facing higher health insurance costs and decreasing options in the individual marketplace - including zero plans in two counties. Proposed premium increases statewide reach as high as 38 percent. Despite state efforts to prop up this flawed, unstable law, it is clear that Obamacare is on an unsustainable path in our state. We refuse to allow this failed government-knows-best approach to healthcare to cause more damage, and are committed to working with our colleagues in Congress to ensure Washingtonians have access to the quality, affordable health insurance that they deserve." On June 8th, eleven health insurers filed 71 plans for Washington State’s 2018 individual health insurance market, down from 13 insurers offering 154 plans in 2017. In two counties in Washington, Grays Harbor and Klickitat, no insurer filed individual plans for 2018. Chelan, Douglas, Ferry, Pend Oreille, and San Juan counties will all have only a single insurer offering coverage plans on the exchange. Insurance rate increase requests for 2018 according to information provided by the Washington State Office of the Insurance Commissioner: ASURIS NORTHWEST HEALTH is requesting a rate change of 31%. BRIDGESPAN HEALTH COMPANY is requesting a rate change of 23%. COORDINATED CARE CORPORATION is requesting a rate change of 29.3%. HEALTH ALLIANCE NORTHWEST HEALTH PLAN is requesting a rate change of 14.6%. KAISER FOUNDATION HEALTH PLAN OF THE NORTHWEST is requesting a rate change of 12.91%. KAISER FOUNDATION HEALTH PLAN OF WASHINGTON is requesting a rate change of 12.9%. LIFEWISE HEALTH PLAN OF WASHINGTON is requesting a rate change of 21.6%. MOLINA HEALTHCARE OF WASHINGTON INC is requesting a rate change of 38.49%. PREMERA BLUE CROSS is requesting a rate change of 27.7%. REGENCE BLUESHIELD is requesting a rate change of 30%. REGENCE BLUECROSS BLUESHIELD OF OREGON is requesting a rate change of 30.9%.
06.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) was honored with the American Conservative Union Foundation’s Award for Conservative Achievement for his commitment to America’s foundational principles and the U.S. Constitution. Rep. Newhouse was recognized for American Conservative Union’s Congressional rating of 83% for his 2016 voting record. “The 2016 ACUF Award for Conservative Achievement is given to those Members of Congress who receive an 80% or above score in our annual ACU Ratings,” said ACUF Chairman Matt Schlapp. “We applaud Congressman Newhouse for his continued support of conservative values, and working to achieve commonsense conservative solutions for the people of Washington State.” “Conservative values mean encouraging work and opportunity, defending the blessings of our God-given rights, respecting life, and strengthening the private sector instead of enlarging the government through burdensome taxation,” said Rep. Newhouse. “As a farmer who understands firsthand the challenges that come from running a small business, I am honored to receive ACUF’s recognition as Central Washington’s conservative voice in Congress.”
06.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today released the following statement after the Secretary of the Army provided the report to Congress on the acquisition of the McNary Shoreline in Central Washington. “There is still work to do to ensure a transfer is done properly, with all necessary information and documentation on the land in question,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The release of this report, as required by law, is a positive and necessary step forward for the possible re-conveyance of this property and ensuring broad community support.” Background: The 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) legislation included language directing the Secretary of the Army to provide a report to the congressional defense committees on the process by which the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) acquired certain properties, such as the McNary Shoreline, along the Columbia River. The report was required to include the specific legal documentation detailing how, when, and at what cost the properties were acquired by the Corps. The 2017 NDAA report text reflected Rep. Newhouse’s McNary Shoreline Army Corps Report amendment. The 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) conference report was signed into law in December, 2016. Click here to read Part I of the report with exhibits 1-4. Click here to read Part II of the report with exhibits 5-6. *Please note that exhibit 7 is not included due to the size of the file.
06.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Chris Collins (R-NY), today wrote to U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue requesting the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Services (APHIS) conduct a full disease and pest management risk analysis (PRA) for apples imported from Poland, which has not previously met phytosanitary requirements for U.S. market access. The Members wrote: “As you know, the introduction of a single invasive plant, pest, or disease can have a devastating impact on our domestic tree fruit industry. We feel APHIS’ systems approach proposal does not fully address key concerns raised by domestic apple growers about the potential risk from the importation of plant pests and diseases from Poland.” The Members continued in the letter: “Since Poland has not previously met phytosanitary requirements for U.S. market access, unlike the other seven EU countries under consideration, we still request that APHIS conduct a thorough PRA for Poland prior to determining whether it is appropriate to allow access to Polish imports under this petition.” Read the full letter sent today here. Read the July, 2016 letter to Animal and Plant Health Inspection Services (APHIS) Administrator Kevin Shea here. June 13, 2017 The Honorable Sonny Perdue Secretary U.S. Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, DC 20250 Dear Secretary Perdue: Last year, we along with a number of our colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives sent a letter to Animal and Plant Health Inspection Services (APHIS) Administrator Kevin Shea regarding a proposal to change the U.S. market import requirements for apples from certain countries in the European Union (EU) [Docket No. APHIS-2015-0073]. While we appreciate Administrator Shea’s willingness to respond to this issue, our concerns remain over the impact and risk associated with APHIS not conducting a full disease and pest management risk analysis (PRA) for Poland. As you know, the introduction of a single invasive plant, pest, or disease can have a devastating impact on our domestic tree fruit industry. We feel APHIS’ systems approach proposal does not fully address key concerns raised by domestic apple growers about the potential risk from the importation of plant pests and diseases from Poland. Since Poland has not previously met phytosanitary requirements for U.S. market access, unlike the other seven EU countries under consideration, we still request that APHIS conduct a thorough PRA for Poland prior to determining whether it is appropriate to allow access to Polish imports under this petition. In addition, on May 11, 2017, you announced intentions to focus your tenure as Secretary on agricultural trade with the reorganization and establishment of the Undersecretary for Trade at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. We believe this is a prime opportunity for the new undersecretary to ensure our trading partners that we will continue to honor our commitments and treat our trade partners with the proper and appropriate access. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Please do not hesitate to contact us with any questions. Sincerely,
06.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) announced that six students across Central Washington have received appointments to attend U.S. military academies and military academy preparatory schools. The appointments followed Rep. Newhouse’s nominations for each appointee. The honor of attending a service academy comes with the obligation and commitment to serve in the military for a minimum of five years upon graduation. Rep. Newhouse called each appointee to offer congratulations. “I could not be more proud of the young people who have earned appointments to attend military academies and preparatory schools in order to serve our country,” said Rep. Newhouse. “After meeting them and speaking with them, I am convinced that these young people truly represent Central Washington’s best of the best. I look forward to seeing their future success, and I thank them for their service to our nation.” U.S. Military Academy at West Point Appointments Felix Trevino of Kennewick Felix is a senior at Southridge High School and the son of Roger Trevino and Amy Rieck. U.S. Naval Academy Appointments Matthew Brink of West Richland Matthew is a senior at Hanford High School and the son of Frederick and Monika Brink. U.S. Air Force Academy Appointments Jonathan Imperial of Wapato Jonathan is a graduate of A.C. Davis High School and the son of Manuel and Barbara Imperial. Martin Sample Yakima Martin is a senior at West Valley High School and the son of Mark and Laura Sample. Lakota Wills of Richland Lakota is a graduate of Richland High School and the son of Jerrell Wills and Jamie Thompson. United States Military Academy Preparatory School Appointment Clayton Porcaro of Richland Clayton is a graduate of Hanford High School and the son of Paul and Melissa Porcaro. Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. For more information or to obtain an application packet for next year’s nominations, click here or contact Rep. Newhouse’s Tri-Cities office at 3100 George Washington Way #135 Richland, (509) 713-7374.
06.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Garret Graves (R-LA), joined by U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Bill Cassidy, M.D. (R-LA), and John Kennedy (R-LA), wrote to National Science Foundation (NSF) Director France Córdova to request that NSF devote sufficient resources to Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO) over its next five-year funding cycle to promote continued scientific discoveries. The Members wrote in the letter sent yesterday: “The NSF rightly champions LIGO as an example of what the Foundation, as well as our nation's scientific community, can achieve. Given the considerable taxpayer investment in LIGO, we urge you to ensure that the observatory is appropriately funded and fully utilized over the course of its next five-year funding cycle.” The Members also requested clarification on the following: How the NSF will work with LIGO's principal investigators to ensure that budget obligations are met over the course of the FY 2019-2023 funding cycle; What the NSF's current projections are for LIGO's annual budget under the upcoming FY 2019-2023 funding cycle; and How those projections may differ from those requested by LIGO's principal investigators, and how those differences will be resolved. Read the full letter here and below: The Honorable France Córdova Director National Science Foundation (NSF) 4201 Wilson Boulevard Arlington, Virginia 22230 Dear Dr. Córdova, Congratulations to you and the National Science Foundation (NSF) on the recent successes of the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO), including the third detection of gravitational waves from merging black holes. We remain astounded and impressed by the remarkable discoveries made at LIGO's Livingston, LA and Hanford, WA facilities, and look forward to witnessing how the observatory further shapes the way we understand our universe. In anticipation of the end of LIGO’s current five-year funding cycle, we are eager to work with you to ensure that the observatory remains adequately funded. Over the course of this current funding cycle, NSF rescissions in Fiscal Year (FY) 2014 resulted in reductions to LIGO's core science mission in its FY 2017 and 2018 budgets. The discoveries LIGO has made are truly inspiring and we are confident that further discoveries will justify its continued priority. For these reasons, we seek your assurance that the NSF will devote sufficient resources to LIGO over its next five-year funding cycle and continue fully leveraging previous taxpayer investments to achieve further scientific discoveries. To that end, we ask you to clarify the following: How the NSF will work with LIGO's principal investigators to ensure that budget obligations are met over the course of the FY 2019-2023 funding cycle; What the NSF's current projections are for LIGO's annual budget under the upcoming FY 2019-2023 funding cycle; and How those projections may differ from those requested by LIGO's principal investigators, and how those differences will be resolved. The NSF rightly champions LIGO as an example of what the Foundation, as well as our nation's scientific community, can achieve. Given the considerable taxpayer investment in LIGO, we urge you to ensure that the observatory is appropriately funded and fully utilized over the course of its next five-year funding cycle. Please do not hesitate to contact our offices should you have any questions or need additional information. Thank you in advance for your consideration of this request and for your timely response. Sincerely,
05.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Carol Newhouse, beloved wife of Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA), passed away yesterday, May 12, 2017. Carol was a strong, beautiful, and loving mother, wife, and friend. Carol’s sparkling wit and joyful countenance will be deeply missed by her family and friends. The family is grateful for the patience, support, and prayers of so many and requests privacy during this time of grieving.
05.11.2017	SUNNYSIDE – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) announced the winners of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition for high school students in the Fourth District: “I congratulate Elly Teske on her winning entry, and I am proud of all the student artists who submitted entries and participated in this year’s competition,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The talent and creativity of these young artists made it a very difficult choice, and I would like to thank the community judges who helped review the artwork. I look forward to seeing the artwork created by Central Washington’s young people displayed in the U.S. Capitol for all visitors to enjoy, as well as in the Fourth District congressional offices in Yakima, and the Tri-Cities.” Rep. Newhouse’s advisory committee comprised of Fourth District residents helped select the winning entry. Rep. Newhouse has invited the winner to have her work displayed at the U.S. Capitol complex. The winning entry, Heart Strings, by Elly Teske from West Valley High School, will be hung in the U.S. Capitol alongside winning entries from congressional districts across the country for one year. The winner will visit Washington, D.C. to attend a reception sponsored by the Congressional Institute, which holds the annual competition. Rep. Newhouse has also invited second-place winner Linnea Water at The Delta High School to hang her entry, The Glowing Hills of Oregon, in his Yakima office. Rep. Newhouse invited third-place winner Rachel Werkhoven at Sunnyside Christian School to hang her entry, Two Worlds, in his Tri-Cities office. Winner: Heart Strings, Elly Teske, 12th grade, West Valley High School Second Place: The Glowing Hills of Oregon, Linnea Walter, 11th grade, The Delta High School Third Place: Two Worlds, Rachel Werkhoven, 10th grade, Sunnyside Christian School You can view the entries on Rep. Newhouse’s Facebook page here.
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on House passage of H.R. 1628, the American Health Care Act: “For years, I have been hearing from Central Washington families who lost insurance that they wanted to keep and are now paying more for health care due to the Affordable Care Act. Their stories of paying higher prices for insurance and higher deductibles with limited insurance options have been the reason I have voted in the past to repeal Obamacare along with its mandate and bureaucratic regulations. I strongly believe that every American deserves access to affordable health care, and the status quo under the ACA is not working. Because of my wife Carol’s health, I have largely remained by her side and was unable to be in D.C. for the vote on the AHCA. I am pleased the process to improve our health care system will continue with action by the Senate and further negotiations with the House. I will continue to work with my colleagues to keep my promise to reverse the burdens created by Obamacare and restore patient-centered health care.”
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Rep. Chellie Pingree (D-ME) introduced H.R. 2321, the Cultivating Revitalization by Expanding American Agricultural Trade and Exports (CREAATE) Act. The CREAATE Act would reassert the importance of the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Market Access Program (MAP) and Foreign Market Development Program (FMDP) to America’s agricultural producers and economy as a whole, and provide the U.S. agricultural community with the tools needed to retain its edge in an increasingly competitive global economy. The CREAATE Act would double funding for MAP and FMDP, incrementally phasing in increases over five years. This increase, while a fractional portion of the USADA and the federal budget, will provide an enormous return on investment for America’s agricultural community and the U.S. economy as a whole. “As a former state director of agriculture, I understand what it takes to market and sell American products to international buyers,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Agriculture market development programs are critical tools to assist domestic farmers and agriculture producers compete in overseas markets, and I look forward to strengthening export efforts on behalf of farmers and agriculture.” “Wild blueberries and potatoes are some of the most iconic agricultural products from Maine that enter the world market,” said Rep. Pingree. “The Market Access Program and the Foreign Market Development Program at USDA have been extremely successful in helping farmers maintain export markets for products such as these. Increased funding for these two programs would provide vital support to growers of these products and others that want to reach new markets abroad.” Reps. Newhouse and Pingree were joined in introducing the CREAATE Act by Reps. Cheri Bustos (D-IL), Roger Marshall (R-KS), Jimmy Panetta (D-CA), and Thomas Rooney (R-FL). Background: For decades, USDA export promotion programs have helped American farmers create, expand, and maintain access to foreign markets. Throughout their history, this successful public/private partnership have cultivated hundreds of billions of dollars in exports and created millions of American jobs, both in the agriculture sector and in support industries. Without these programs, it is very likely that the United States would not be the net agricultural exporter that we are today. Two of the most impactful USDA export promotion programs are the Market Access Program (MAP) and the Foreign Market Development Program (FMDP). MAP, first created in 1985, allows agricultural trade associations, farmer cooperatives, non-profit trade groups, and small businesses to apply for either generic or brand-specific promotion funds supporting trade shows, market research, consumer product promotion, technical assistance, and other efforts vital to supporting export efforts. If generic commodity funds are sought, there is a 10-percent minimum funding match; the match is at least 50-percent for brand-specific efforts. FMDP was first developed in 1955 and is also used for consumer promotion, technical assistance, market research, and other export-oriented activities. FMDP is largely used for promotion of generic, bulk commodities, and it helps agricultural trade associations maintain a permanent presence in consumer nations so that these commodities have full-time representation in important markets. FMDP also carries a fund match requirement. Benefits: A 2016 study of USDA export promotion programs conducted by researchers at Texas A&M University and other universities found many benefits to the programs. A few of the findings include: Between 1977 and 2014, USDA export promotion programs have generated a net return of $28.30 for every dollar invested, and have added an annual average of $8.15 billion to the value of American agricultural exports, and $8.7 billion to farm cash receipts; Between 2002 and 2014, USDA export promotion programs have added up to 239,800 full and part-time jobs across the economy under a less than full employment scenario; and Doubling public funding for MAP and FMDP, coupled with increasing private contributions from 10 to 50 percent, would result in average annual gains in GDP of $4.5 to $6.0 billion under a less than full employment scenario. The Problem: Statutory funding for MAP and FMDP has been static the 2002 Farm Bill. Practically, those funds have been eroded in recent years by inflation, administrative costs, and sequestration. The programs have only been sustained through support and resolve from the private sector partners, whose contributions have grown to 70 percent of available funds in 2014, a level that far exceeds program requirements. Meanwhile, America’s competitors have ramped up their own export promotion. For example, the European Union spends more for the promotion of wine ($255.36 million for 2017) than the U.S. spends for the promotion of all commodities through MAP and FMDP. If this trend continues, American producers will be severely disadvantaged in the global marketplace. Click here for the CREAATE Act section-by-section. Click here for the text of the CREAATE Act.
04.17.2017	THURSDAY, April 20th – Okanogan County Newhouse Hosts Listening Session in Okanogan County WHAT: Rep. Newhouse will host a listening session for 4th Congressional District constituents WHERE: Brewster High School Gymnasium, 503 South 7th Street, Brewster, WA 98812 WHEN: Thursday, April 20th 6:00 PM – 7:00 PM Due to limited seating, listening session attendance is limited to Washington’s 4th Congressional District constituents only. Proof of current address will be required for check-in. Check-in will begin one hour before the start of each event. To facilitate the check-in process, constituents are strongly encouraged to pre-register online for the listening session here. [Pre-registration is not required and does not guarantee admission; it is solely to speed the check-in process at the event.] Items that inhibit the participation or view of fellow constituents will be prohibited, including, but not limited to, signs, banners, noisemakers, and bullhorns. Constituents who attempt to bring prohibited items into the event will be asked to dispose of the item or return it to their vehicle.
04.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on the Senate confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the U.S. Supreme Court: “I congratulate Judge Neil Gorsuch on his confirmation as Supreme Court Justice to fill the seat of Justice Antonin Scalia. Judge Gorsuch’s distinguished record on the federal bench has demonstrated his respect for the rule of law and the original meaning of our Constitution. I am confident that his service on the nation’s highest court will preserve our freedoms as well as our system of checks and balances.”
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) will host congressional listening sessions this month in Grant, Yakima, and Okanogan counties to hear constituent concerns and discuss the priorities of the 115th Congress. All residents and press of the 4th Congressional District are invited to attend. GRANT COUNTY LISTENING SESSION Tuesday, April 11 6:00 PM – 7:00 PM Moses Lake Civic Center Auditorium 401 South Balsam Street Moses Lake, WA, 98837 LOWER VALLEY LISTENING SESSION Thursday, April 13 6:00 PM – 7:00 PM Sunnyside High School Auditorium 1801 East Edison Avenue Sunnyside, WA, 98944 OKANOGAN COUNTY LISTENING SESSION Thursday, April 20 6:00 PM – 7:00 PM Brewster High School Gymnasium, 503 South 7th Street Brewster, WA 98812 Due to limited seating, attendance is limited to Washington’s 4th Congressional District constituents only. Proof of current address will be required for check-in. Check-in will begin one hour before the start of each event. To facilitate the check-in process, constituents are strongly encouraged to pre-register online for the Moses Lake listening session here. Constituents may pre-register online for the Lower Valley listening session here. [Pre-registration is not required and does not guarantee admission; it is solely to speed the check-in process at the event.] Items that inhibit the participation or view of fellow constituents will be prohibited, including, but not limited to, signs, banners, noisemakers, and bullhorns. Constituents who attempt to bring prohibited items into the event will be asked to dispose of the item or return it to their vehicle.
04.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), requested that incoming U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt act to review the misuse of taxpayer dollars in the anti-farmer “What’s Upstream” campaign in Washington state. In a letter, Rep. Newhouse requested Administrator Pruitt follow up on EPA’s commitment to review its grant protocols to ensure good stewardship of taxpayer dollars and prevent future misuses of EPA funds and grants. Rep. Newhouse stated in the letter: “I write to you today regarding…a subgrant awarded to the Swinomish Tribe through an EPA grant to the Northwest Indian Fisheries Commission (NWIFC), which funded a campaign known as ‘What’s Upstream.’ I believe this misguided campaign has unacceptably used taxpayer dollars to malign our nation’s farmers and agriculture producers, and label them as careless polluters of our waterways. It is evident that this campaign violated federal laws and policies that prohibit federal funds from being used for lobbying and propaganda efforts, which occurred when the Swinomish Tribe used award funds to pay for campaign materials and a website encouraging members of the public to lobby their Washington State legislators to adopt stricter environmental regulations targeting agriculture. The EPA’s Office of Inspector General (OIG) is already in the process of conducting an investigation into the scope and nature of potential violations.” Rep. Newhouse continued in the letter: “…. then-EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy committed to the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works that the Agency would review its grant protocols to ensure good stewardship of taxpayer dollars and prevent future misuses of EPA funds and grants. After multiple attempts from my office, and other Members of Congress, to request a status update on this internal review, it became apparent that no steps were being taken to fulfill Administrator McCarthy’s pledge, and EPA staff insisted they would wait for the previously mentioned OIG report before the Agency would even consider committing to a good-faith review. I would request that your Agency carry out this review to ensure appropriate use of taxpayer dollars, which is very important to the Congress and is critical to restoring public trust.” Background: EPA Region 10 funded the What’s Upstream website and advocacy campaign that attempts to influence legislators for greater regulation of farmers and ranchers. In April of this year, Administrator McCarthy acknowledged that the EPA was “distressed by the use of the money and the tone of [the What’s Upstream] campaign” and called for a full review of the use of taxpayer funds for the campaign “before additional monies are spent.” In April, the EPA admitted that it should not have funded a campaign in Washington State known as What's Upstream, due to that campaign’s brazen lobbying of state legislators in contravention of federal law. The What's Upstream campaign, which was wholly funded by the EPA, used grant awards to fund a website, radio ads, and billboards depicting dead fish and polluted water, urging individuals to contact their state legislators and, “hold the agricultural industry to the same level of responsibility as other industries.” A large, red button on the website labeled, “Take action! We’ve made it simple,” allowed visitors to easily send an email to their state legislators advocating for 100-foot stream buffer zones and other policies. An EPA Inspector General’s report from 2014 had warned that the EPA region responsible for awarding the grant had insufficient protections in place to ensure awardees were not using funds for advocacy, propaganda, and/or lobbying efforts. According to a December, 2015 report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the EPA violated federal lobbying and advocacy laws by funding social media campaigns supporting EPA’s Waters of the United States (WOTUS) Rule. In December of 2016, Rep. Newhouse sent a request for information to EPA and expressed extreme concern regarding the agency’s decision to continue awarding federal grants despite the ongoing investigation. Read the full text of Rep. Newhouse’s letter to EPA Administrator Pruitt here or below. April 4, 2017 The Honorable Scott Pruitt Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20460 Dear Administrator Pruitt, Congratulations on your recent confirmation as Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). I have the privilege of representing Washington’s 4th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives, which, along with the State of Washington, has regular interactions with your agency on numerous matters. I look forward to working closely with you on the issues of importance to our district, state, and region. I write to you today regarding one of those issues – a subgrant awarded to the Swinomish Tribe through an EPA grant to the Northwest Indian Fisheries Commission (NWIFC), which funded a campaign known as “What’s Upstream.” I believe this misguided campaign has unacceptably used taxpayer dollars to malign our nation’s farmers and agriculture producers, and label them as careless polluters of our waterways. It is evident that this campaign violated federal laws and policies that prohibit federal funds from being used for lobbying and propaganda efforts, which occurred when the Swinomish Tribe used award funds to pay for campaign materials and a website encouraging members of the public to lobby their Washington State legislators to adopt stricter environmental regulations targeting agriculture. The EPA’s Office of Inspector General (OIG) is already in the process of conducting an investigation into the scope and nature of potential violations. I would first ask, under your new tenure at EPA, that this investigation be allowed to continue and conclude as expeditiously as is possible and appropriate. This campaign has had the unfortunate effect of eroding the trust between EPA and our region’s agricultural community. Completing the OIG investigation and taking steps to bring accountability for any wrongdoing would go a long way to begin restoring this vital relationship. I was heartened by remarks that Ray Starling, President Trump’s special assistant on agriculture, trade, and food assistance, delivered to the National Press Club on March 21st, 2017, where he stated “this administration will not allow the EPA to give taxpayer dollars to activist groups who then turn around and put up billboards that attack our farmers and ranchers.” To ensure this goal is reached, it is imperative that we enact safeguards of taxpayer funds. “What’s Upstream” is only one in a recent series of events, undertaken by the previous Administration, where EPA has either been suspected of, or found to have violated, federal lobbying and propaganda laws and prohibitions. On December 14, 2015, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) issued a report finding that EPA violated anti-lobbying laws in using social media platforms to promote EPA’s Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule. On April 19, 2016, in response to this disturbing trend, and when specifically asked about the “What’s Upstream” Campaign, then-EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy committed to the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works that the Agency would review its grant protocols to ensure good stewardship of taxpayer dollars and prevent future misuses of EPA funds and grants. After multiple attempts from my office, and other Members of Congress, to request a status update on this internal review, it became apparent that no steps were being taken to fulfill Administrator McCarthy’s pledge, and EPA staff insisted they would wait for the previously mentioned OIG report before the Agency would even consider committing to a good-faith review. I would request that your Agency carry out this review to ensure appropriate use of taxpayer dollars, which is very important to the Congress and is critical to restoring public trust. Finally, I am including a letter I sent to Administrator McCarthy on December 6, 2016, following up on a number of questions that were raised during an EPA staff briefing I received on this subject, as well as the response I received from EPA Region 10 Administrator Dennis McLerran on behalf of Administrator McCarthy. As you will note, a great number of my initial inquires went unaddressed. While I appreciate that some of the staff most familiar with this case may have departed with the previous Administration, I would kindly request that you and your staff assist in responding to the questions that went unanswered by the previous administration. I believe that responses to many of these questions will be very instructive to Congress on how to best address the specific case of “What’s Upstream,” and also will help direct ongoing conversations about the best way to ensure good stewardship of federal funds. Thank you in advance for your assistance in addressing this important matter, and I look forward to working with you and your staff in the weeks and months to come. Please don’t hesitate to contact my congressional office if you have any questions or would like additional information on this matter. Sincerely,
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) announced the start of the third annual Congressional Art Competition for the 4th District, inviting all high school students in Central Washington to participate. Every spring, the Congressional Institute sponsors a nationwide high school visual art competition. Last year’s winner was Audra Coulson from Wahluke High School in Mattawa for submitting the winning entry, Soul Sisters. The winning entry will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol, and this year’s winner will receive two airline tickets to visit Washington, D.C. and attend a reception hosted by the Congressional Institute. You can learn more about the competition here. “The Congressional High School Art Competition has enabled our region’s high school students to showcase their talent and artistic skill in the nation’s capital,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I am proud to display previous winning entries, and I encourage all high school students in Central Washington to take this opportunity to submit their favorite artwork.” The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students in the 4th District. The winning artwork is also featured on House.gov's Congressional Art Competition page. Additionally, honorable mention winners will be invited to have their art work hang in one of Rep. Newhouse’s district offices. The following is a summary of the Congressional Art Competition rules: Artwork entered in the contest may be up to 26 inches by 26 inches, may be up to 4 inches in depth, and not weigh more than 15 pounds. If your artwork is selected as the winning piece, it must arrive framed and must still measure no larger than the above maximum dimensions. Paintings - including oil, acrylics, and watercolor Drawings - including pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, and markers (It is recommended that charcoal and pastel drawings be fixed.) Collages - must be two dimensional Prints - including lithographs, silkscreen, and block prints Mixed Media - use of more than two mediums such as pencil, ink, watercolor, etc. Computer-generated art Photography All entries must be original in concept, design and execution and may not violate any U.S. copyright laws. Any entry that has been copied from an existing photo or image (including a painting, graphic, or advertisement) that was created by someone other than the student is a violation of the competition rules and will not be accepted. Work entered must be in the original medium (that is, not a scanned reproduction of a painting or drawing). All artwork must be submitted by April 27th, 2017 to one of the District offices listed below. Please call to schedule a time for artwork to be dropped off. Tri-Cities District Office 3100 George Washington Suite 135 Richland, WA 99354 Phone: (509) 713-7374 Yakima District Office 402 E. Yakima Ave. Suite 445 Yakima, WA 98901 Phone: (509) 452-3243 North District: Okanogan and Douglas Counties Contact: Jessica.Mccarthy@mail.house.gov Twisp, WA 98856 Phone: (509) 433-7760 All entries will need to fill out the online release form by the artist here. The honorable mention winners will hang in district offices in Yakima and Richland for the same duration of time as the 1st place winner’s entry. There is no limit to the amount of students from one school that can submit a piece of art, but each student can only submit one entry. For additional information please contact Matt Pettit at (202) 225-5816 or at Matt.Pettit@mail.house.gov.
03.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) wrote to North Cascades National Park Service Superintendent Karen Taylor-Goodrich to express opposition to the North Cascades Ecosystem Grizzly Bear Restoration Plan. Rep. Newhouse expressed concern regarding the inadequate level of local community input and encouraged federal agencies to defer to state and local authorities on grizzly bear management efforts. Members of the public can post comments on the draft Environmental Impact Statement here. “I write this letter to express my firm opposition to the North Cascades Ecosystem Grizzly Bear Restoration Plan,” Rep. Newhouse wrote in the letter. “I am concerned that the National Park Service (NPS) and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) are moving forward with plans for the restoration and reintroduction of grizzly bears to the North Cascades Ecosystem (NCE), without the use of sound science to support such a movement. I believe such decisions should be made with substantial local input and support from the local communities that will be most impacted by the proposed Grizzly Bear Restoration Plan. Based off of numerous conversations my office has had with local community members and elected officials, it has come to light that NPS and FWS are repeating past mistakes by failing to provide for adequate public input in the Public Comment process.” The full text of the letter is included below. March 27, 2017 Karen Taylor-Goodrich Superintendent North Cascades National Park Service Complex 810 State Route 20 Sedro-Woolley, WA 98284 Re: Grizzly Bear Restoration Plan Dear Superintendent Taylor-Goodrich: I write this letter to express my firm opposition to the North Cascades Ecosystem Grizzly Bear Restoration Plan. I am concerned that the National Park Service (NPS) and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) are moving forward with plans for the restoration and reintroduction of grizzly bears to the North Cascades Ecosystem (NCE), without the use of sound science to support such a movement. I believe such decisions should be made with substantial local input and support from the local communities that will be most impacted by the proposed Grizzly Bear Restoration Plan. Based off of numerous conversations my office has had with local community members and elected officials, it has come to light that NPS and FWS are repeating past mistakes by failing to provide for adequate public input in the Public Comment process. In March 2015, a public forum was held in Okanogan County, Washington, on the proposed Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and the general consensus from individuals present at these meetings was that their concerns were not being taken seriously by federal officials. As a result, I brought this issue to the attention of NPS Director Jonathan Jarvis and FWS Director Dan Ashe during two March 2015 hearings in the House Natural Resources Committee. I urged both Directors to restart the public comment process to allow residents the opportunity to voice their concerns and comment on the proposal in the proper setting and with the full support of federal officials. While Directors Jarvis and Ashe assured me that the process would be conducted in an appropriate manner moving forward, it has since come to my attention that recent public forums and meetings in Okanogan were handled in a similar manner to the 2015 forum, where many residents were not allowed to express their concerns and were treated in an unacceptable manner by the NPS and FWS employees conducting the session. In addition to concerns over the Public Comment process, I am also concerned with the proposed plan to reintroduce grizzly bears in the North Cascades. While NPS and FWS claim the reintroduced grizzly bears will be joining an existing grizzly population, the last confirmed sighting of a grizzly in the North Cascades was in 1996 and even the draft EIS found it is “highly unlikely that the area contains a viable grizzly bear population.” These issues raise serious questions about the proposed plan and the need for the federal government to take such an action to “restore” grizzly bears in the region. Furthermore, I encourage NPS and FWS to ensure the proposed restoration plan does not violate Washington State law, which states that grizzly bears “shall not be transplanted or introduced into the state” (RCW 77.12.035, SSB 5106 (1995)). While the EIS finds that this law does not prevent federal agencies from transplanting bears into the state, I believe it is imperative that this issue be fully examined before any reintroduction activity is to occur. The EIS offered by NPS and FWS outlines four options or “alternatives” for Grizzly Bear restoration in the NCE. Out of the four proposed “alternatives” it appears “Option A” is the only one that is consistent with Washington State Law. I support this option, which would not implement any new management action, and would thus limit options for grizzly bear restoration in the NCE. Additionally, I would like to reiterate the importance of federal agencies consulting and working with local communities and stakeholders to get their views and support for such a proposal. This is a crucial step, as these citizens are the ones whom will be most affected by the species’ reintroduction. I believe the federal government should defer to the will of state and local communities on species reintroduction issues, and I encourage NPS and FWS to evaluate the need for reintroducing grizzly bears into the NCE, as well as the substantial impacts this action would have on local communities, businesses, and families. Additionally, there are issues of higher priority that the NPS should be addressing before we look at reintroducing grizzlies into the NCE, such as the roughly $12 billion maintenance backlog on NPS lands. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter and please do not hesitate to contact my congressional office with any questions. Sincerely,
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on postponing the House vote to repeal and replace Obamacare: “All Americans deserve access to quality, affordable health care. Obamacare is not working, and we must act to improve our health care system,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I have heard countless stories from Washingtonians whose coverage has not translated to affordable care. Many families are struggling with rising premiums and deductibles. We must transition to a better health care system that puts patients first, not higher taxes and more government mandates. We must strengthen the safety net for the most vulnerable while providing more choices that allow Americans to access the insurance options that they—not the government—want to purchase. I am disappointed that we have reached a delay in moving forward on solutions, but I will continue to work to support healthcare proposals that put individuals first, not the government bureaucracy.”
03.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Washington Council on International Trade (WCIT) awarded U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) with the 2017 Washington Trade Hero of the Year Award at the annual Washington Trade Conference. “The true heroes are the men and women in our state who wake up every morning to produce and sell Washington products on the international market and create jobs here at home,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I am honored by this award, and I am grateful for WCIT’s work to promote trade competitiveness on behalf of our state – where success is measured by the 40% of jobs tied to trade and economic growth. I am proud to support the critical role that trade plays in supporting opportunity in Central Washington.” "WCIT is honored to present Representative Dan Newhouse with 2017's Trade Hero Award,” said Lori Otto Punke, WCIT's President. “Representative Newhouse came to Congress with a wealth of knowledge about the importance of Washington's global competitiveness. A third-generation Yakima farmer and businessman, he worked tirelessly to promote the Trade Promotion Authority, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, and a fully-functioning EX-IM Bank. We're proud to honor a leader with such thoughtful consideration of local businesses, their employees, and Washington residents that depend upon a flourishing economy."
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on the Senate confirmation of Secretary of Energy Rick Perry: “I congratulate Governor Perry on his confirmation as Secretary of Energy. The Mid-Columbia is home to two of the Department’s most significant sites: Hanford is the nation’s largest defense nuclear waste cleanup site, and the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory is one of the nation’s premier laboratories. Meeting the legal and moral obligation to continue Hanford cleanup is critical for Central Washington and our country. Supporting the research mission of PNNL is vital to continue groundbreaking innovations in the fields of science, energy, environment, and national security. With Secretary Perry at the Department’s helm, I look forward to working together to ensure that Hanford and PNNL have the support to accomplish their respective missions.” Earlier this year, Rep. Newhouse sent a letter to former Texas Gov. Rick Perry inviting him to tour the Hanford site upon confirmation.
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) introduced H.R. 1274, the State, Tribal, and Local Species Transparency and Recovery Act, and H.R. 1273, the 21st Century Endangered Species Transparency Act. H.R. 1274 would amend the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (ESA) to require the federal government to disclose to affected states all data used prior to any ESA listing decisions and require that the “best available scientific and commercial data” used by the federal government include information provided by affected states, tribes, and local governments. H.R. 1273 would update the ESA by requiring federal agencies to make data used for ESA decisions publicly available on the Internet. It would also ensure the proper use of taxpayer funds by putting a cap on attorneys’ fees. “I am introducing these two bills to improve the transparency and methodology of Endangered Species Act listing decisions,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The federal government should be required to consider the best available science to justify listing decisions under the ESA, and all citizens should have access to the data used by agencies to make such determinations. These bills would make the ESA listing process more accountable to states, tribes, and local entities by requiring federal agencies to consider local input. I urge my colleagues to support these commonsense reforms to bring the ESA listing process into the 21st Century.” Earlier versions of both bills passed the House in the 113th Congress. H.R. 1274, the State, Tribal, and Local Species Transparency and Recovery Act, was cosponsored by Reps., Ralph Abraham (R-LA), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Paul Gosar (R-AZ), Gregg Harper (R-MS), Walter Jones (R-NC), Roger Marshall (R-KS), Steve Pearce (R-NM), Scott Tipton (R-CO), and Ted Yoho (R-FL). Click here for the bill text. H.R. 1273, the 21st Century Endangered Species Transparency Act, was cosponsored by Reps. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Paul Gosar (R-AZ), Gregg Harper (R-MS), Roger Marshall (R-KS), Steve Pearce (R-NM), and Scott Tipton (R-CO). Click here for the bill text.
03.01.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09), joined by Reps. Rick Larsen (WA-02), Dave Reichert (WA-08), Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Denny Heck (WA-10), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Dan Newhouse (WA-04) and Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), released the following statement in response to Monday evening’s bomb threat that lead to the evacuation of the Mercer Island Jewish Community Center in Mercer Island, Washington: The Members of Congress joined in sending a letter to the Department of Justice (DOJ), as well as the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to share a deep concern with increasing number of alarming bomb threats targeting Jewish Community Centers in over thirty states, sowing fear and anxiety in our communities. The letter requests that in the wake of these threats, as well as the desecration of Jewish cemeteries, the DOJ and FBI must tirelessly investigate these matters, and prosecute all offenders to the fullest extent possible. “A clear message must be sent that hatred and bigotry have no place in America, and they will not be tolerated,” the members of Congress wrote. “We stand with the Jewish Community both here in Washington state and across the country following a disturbing number of threats against Jewish community centers in recent months. Our community will continue to remain one that values diversity, and promotes respect for people of all races and religions.” The Members look forward to continued, regular dialogue with both the DOJ and FBI to ensure that they can continue to keep their constituents informed. Read the full letter HERE, text below. Dear Attorney General Sessions and Director Comey, We write to you regarding the increasing number of alarming bomb threats targeting Jewish Community Centers in over 30 states, sowing fear and anxiety in our communities. These malicious, deliberate, and clearly coordinated attacks have singled out Jewish schools and gathering places, endangering the lives of children, and we seek to partner with you in helping to combat this rash of hateful, criminal acts. While we understand that your investigation is ongoing, we are formally requesting to be briefed on the efforts of the Department of Justice (DOJ), as well as the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), to resolve and address this crisis. We encourage both agencies to employ all legal avenues and resources at your disposal to stop these crimes. The safety and well-being of Americans is of the upmost importance, and with more than 100 threats having been received by the writing of this letter, we are extremely concerned that this represents an increase in anti-Semitic activity across the country. Anti-Semitic attacks occupy the largest percentage of religiously rooted hate crime, and they have been increasing in number over the last several years. The Pacific Northwest in particular has been witness to horrific attacks against the Jewish Community, including the July 2006 shooting at the Seattle Jewish Federation, resulting in the tragic death of one individual. In the wake of these threats, as well as the desecration of Jewish cemeteries, we ask that the DOJ and FBI tirelessly investigate these matters, and prosecute all offenders to the fullest extent possible. A clear message must be sent that hatred and bigotry have no place in America, and they will not be tolerated. We greatly appreciate the hard work and dedication put forward by the agents, investigators, and prosecutors in your organizations. We look forward to continued, regular dialogue with you to ensure that we can continue to keep our constituents informed. Sincerely,
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s first Joint Address to Congress: “America must be strong and true to our values. No American should feel forgotten or left out of the promise to pursue happiness. Tonight, I was heartened by an optimistic and unifying message that the President is working to restore limited government, improve economic opportunity, and ensure the safety of all Americans. He honored our fallen heroes, like Ryan Owens, whose sacrifice will never be forgotten. “There is much work to do. We must rescue Americans from the consequences of the failures of Obamacare by restoring access to quality, affordable health insurance options. Reversing job-killing regulations and delivering on tax reform will help spur economic growth and create opportunity for families. Just today, the President signed an order to review the intrusive and overreaching Waters of the United States rule, which is great news for our agriculture community. Improving our nation’s infrastructure must prioritize critical water storage projects in the West and in Washington state, such as the Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project. And securing our borders by enforcing immigration laws must be met with efforts to reform our immigration system. On all of these issues and more, I look forward to working with the President to restore a ‘can-do’ spirit in America.”
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Frank Lucas (R-OK), and Jim Costa (D-CA), were joined by The Fertilizer Institute President Chris Jahn to kick off the Congressional Fertilizer Caucus today on Capitol Hill. Reps. Newhouse, Castor Lucas and Costa are Caucus Co-Chairs. “I look forward to working with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle and across the country to support the contribution of fertilizer to the agriculture economy,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Fertilizers add $155 billion to the U.S. economy and support nearly half a million U.S. jobs, and this Caucus will hone in on ways to support this integral factor of food production.” Rep. Lucas: “I am excited to serve as a Co-Chair on this newly formed caucus. I look forward to using this caucus as a platform to educate my fellow members of Congress about the important role fertilizer plays in providing the world with a safe and adequate food supply.” “The Fertilizer Institute (TFI) thanks Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) for stepping up to serve as Co-Chairman of the Congressional Fertilizer Caucus,” said TFI President Chris Jahn. “Commercial fertilizers feed the crops that feed the world. We also play an important role in state economies. In Washington State, our industry accounts for 1,924 direct jobs and over $1 billion in direct economic impact. Congressman Newhouse is a proven leader with a deep background in agriculture. We look forward to working with him in support of the Caucus.” Background: The Congressional Fertilizer Caucus is a bipartisan coalition of Members of Congress that was founded in 2015 to support America’s fertilizer industry and the farmers they serve. The caucus educates policymakers and stakeholders about the important role fertilizers play in the agricultural sector, by supporting 50 percent of global food production, conserving land, and feeding our nation and world. The Congressional Fertilizer Caucus includes the following Members: Reps. Dan Newhouse (R-WA); Kathy Castor (D-FL); Frank Lucas (R-OK); Ralph Abraham (R-AL); Jim Costa (D-CA); Rob Bishop (R-UT); Cheri Bustos (D-IL); Michael Conaway (R-TX); James Comer (R-KY); Blake Farenthold (R-TX); Bob Gibbs (R-OH); Paul Gosar (R-AZ); Garret Graves (R-LA); Sam Graves (R-MO); Trent Kelly (R-MS); Ron Kind (D-WI); Luke Messer (R-IN); Markwayne Mullin (R-OK); Collin Peterson (D-MN); Cedric Richmond (D-LA); Tom Rooney (R-FL); Dennis Ross (R-FL); Mike Simpson (R-ID); Bennie Thompson (D-MS); Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (R-PA); Patrick Tiberi (R-OH); Bruce Westerman (R-AR); Ted Yoho (R-FL).
02.23.2017	YAKIMA – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) recognized Yakima resident and West Valley High School senior, Joe Jacob “JJ” Doria, with a Congressional Award Silver Medal. The ceremony took place at West Valley High School. The Congressional Award is the highest award for youth presented by the United States Congress. “It is my honor to present the Congressional Award Silver Medal to JJ,” said Rep. Newhouse. “JJ has demonstrated a strong commitment to meet challenging goals for the betterment of himself and our community. I hope this award will serve as a strong reminder of the infinite possibilities ahead as he continues his education and begins a career. I know JJ will continue to accomplish great things.” Congressional Award The Congressional Award program was designed to acknowledge young people for their initiative, achievement, and service. To date, over 7.4 million hours of service have been contributed to communities across the country as a part of the Congressional Award program. To achieve a Bronze, Silver, or Gold Congressional Award Medal, each participant sets and achieves challenging goals in four program areas: voluntary public service, personal development, physical fitness, and expedition/exploration. Today’s recipient of the Congressional Award Silver Medal, Joe Jacob “JJ” Doria of Yakima and West Valley High School, achieved great progress in all four areas: Voluntary Public Service: JJ helped teach environmental education to the Yakima Valley community, served the homeless under the direction of the Yakima Union Gospel Mission, and dedicated his time to trail work and maintenance every week. Personal Development: JJ worked at least 10 hours a week practicing the flute and taking lessons to ensure his growth as a musician. He also strengthened his videography skills and editing efficiency. Physical Fitness: JJ strived to improve his mountain biking skills and endurance and set new personal records on ten trails. Exploration/Expedition: JJ travelled on a backpacking expedition across Ross Lake and the North Cascades Institute.
02.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Corps Network has named Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) a 2017 “Congressional Champion.” The Corps Network Congressional Champion Award is presented on an annual basis to members of the United States Congress for their leadership on behalf of national service, public lands access, conservation, veterans, and other issue important to the work of America's Service and Conservation Corps. “I am humbled by this award, and I commend the great work that Corps Network and Washington Conservation Corps volunteers accomplish for neighbors near and far,” said Rep. Newhouse. “As a third-generation farmer who has worked the land all my life, I understand the importance of being a good steward of our natural resources. I am grateful for the Corps strengthening opportunities to serve and for volunteers who serve local communities through conservation projects.” "For his support of public lands, youth and veterans, The Corps Network is pleased to present Rep. Dan Newhouse with our 2017 Congressional Champion Award," said Mary Ellen Sprenkel, President & CEO of The Corps Network. "We are very grateful to Congressman Newhouse for his efforts as an original cosponsor of the 21st Century Conservation Service Corps Act (H.R. 5114). This no-cost legislation would help create opportunities for America's Corps to engage more youth and veterans in important lands access, recreation and conservation service across the country. Several of The Corps Network's member programs, including Mt. Adams Institute and Washington Conservation Corps are proud to such complete such service projects in Rep. Newhouse's district." About The Corps Network: Founded in 1985, The Corps Network is the national association of service and conservation corps (Corps). Our 130+ Corps provide youth and veterans the opportunity to serve our country through work-based service on public lands and in rural and urban communities. The Corps Network supports Corps by advocating on their behalf, providing access to funding and projects, and offering expertise in Corps operations and programming.
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA), U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) were joined by Representatives Adam Smith (D-WA), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Denny Heck (D-WA), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), and Pramila Jayapal (D-WA) on a letter to President Donald Trump outlining the national benefits of the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory and pledging to work with the administration to advance policies that will continue to support the Lab’s integral scientific innovation, research, and technology development activities. The delegation letter emphasizes that PNNL’s work from its three sites in the Tri-Cities, Sequim, and Seattle “[tackles] some of our nation’s most complex and urgent challenges in the fields of science, energy, environment, and national security, among others.” The senators and representatives call attention to PNNL’s role as “a major economic driver in the State of Washington and throughout the Pacific Northwest, and with a staff of 4,300 it is one of the largest employers in Central and Eastern Washington.” The delegation states in the letter: “As [the U.S. Department of Energy’s] premier laboratory for chemistry, environmental sciences, and data analytics, the Lab has made significant contributions to the resilience, security, and reliability of the electric grid. PNNL also leads nuclear nonproliferation work for DOE’s National Nuclear Security Administration, including work to safeguard nuclear materials. PNNL’s state-of-the-art nuclear detection capability helps ensure that bad actors don’t have access to weapons of mass destruction. Furthermore, the [Marine Sciences Laboratory] is DOE’s only marine research laboratory and is an emerging leader in enabling sustainable development of ocean energy, understanding and mitigating long-term impacts on marine resources, and protecting coastal environments from security threats.” The letter continues: “We look forward to working with you and the Department of Energy to advance policies that will continue to support the Lab’s integral scientific innovation and technology development activities, as well as the many other vital contributions PNNL has made to the frontiers of science and engineering in service to our country and the world.” Read the entire letter below: February 16, 2017 The Honorable Donald J. Trump President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: As part of our continuing effort to introduce you to the work of the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) in our home State of Washington, we write to share with you the importance of the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL, or Lab) and the countless innovative and groundbreaking scientific developments that have and continue to take place at the Lab. PNNL is one of the foremost national laboratories in the country and for over 50 years it has made significant contributions to the scientific community, the Tri-Cities, the State of Washington, and in support of our great nation. PNNL’s origins are traced back to the nuclear materials development mission that helped the United States win World War II and the Cold War. Since then the Lab, stewarded by DOE’s Office of Science, has evolved into a multi-program national laboratory that is tackling some of our nation’s most complex and urgent challenges in the fields of science, energy, environment, and national security, among others. PNNL is a major economic driver in the State of Washington and throughout the Pacific Northwest, and with a staff of 4,300 it is one of the largest employers in Central and Eastern Washington. The Lab is comprised of three sites in Washington, including the main campus and headquarters in Richland, the Battelle Research Center in Seattle, and the Marine Sciences Laboratory (MSL) in Sequim, which is located on Washington’s Olympic Peninsula. Since its inception in 1965, PNNL has had a strong partnership with Battelle, which has set an unparalleled example of success through a shared dedication to coordination and collaboration. As DOE’s premier laboratory for chemistry, environmental sciences, and data analytics, the Lab has made significant contributions to the resilience, security, and reliability of the electric grid. PNNL also leads nuclear nonproliferation work for DOE’s National Nuclear Security Administration, including work to safeguard nuclear materials. PNNL’s state-of-the-art nuclear detection capability helps ensure that bad actors don’t have access to weapons of mass destruction. Furthermore, MSL is DOE’s only marine research laboratory and is an emerging leader in enabling sustainable development of ocean energy, understanding and mitigating long-term impacts on marine resources, and protecting coastal environments from security threats. In addition to this important work, PNNL addresses other key national challenges for other federal agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security, Department of Defense, and National Institutes of Health, and various other federal, state and local agencies. Additionally, the Lab’s main campus is home to many important and acclaimed facilities, including: The Applied Process Engineering Laboratory: a technology business startup facility providing the equipment needed to develop, validate, and commercialize new products; The Environmental Molecular Sciences Laboratory: a scientific user facility that enables molecular-level discoveries that translate to predictive understanding and accelerated solutions for national energy and environmental challenges by providing world class experimental and computational resources to the scientific community; The Interdiction Technology and Integration Laboratory: advances threat detection systems that reduce the risk of nuclear terrorism; The Radiochemical Processing Laboratory: creates and implements innovative processes for environmental cleanup and the beneficial use of radioactive materials; The Systems Engineering Building: develops new grid modernization technologies and conducts electricity transmission research to provide stronger, smarter, and more resilient energy systems and grid technologies; The Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Climate Research Facility: a scientific user facility that provides detailed atmospheric information about geographically diverse locations to enhance understanding of the Earth system and inform sustainable solutions to national energy and environmental challenges; and The Bioproducts, Sciences, and Engineering Laboratory: where researchers are developing technologies to convert low-value agricultural byproducts and residues into value-added chemicals for products like plastics, solvents, fibers, pharmaceuticals, and fuel additives. PNNL is home to many additional facilities that are vital to ensuring the Lab remains mission-ready, with unique instruments and infrastructure that are reliable, sustainable, and adaptable to the challenges of future scientific discovery. PNNL is a leader in preserving our capacity to innovate, enhancing our competitive edge in the global economy, supporting our national security, and improving our quality of life. Further, PNNL’s commitment to commercialization and technology transfer has brought research out of the laboratory and into the real world. As one of our nation’s seventeen national laboratories, PNNL’s state-of-the-art facilities and campus benefit not only the scientists and researchers in Washington state, but will also ensure PNNL is ready to meet the nation’s research priorities now and well into the future. We look forward to working with you and the Department of Energy to advance policies that will continue to support the Lab’s integral scientific innovation and technology development activities, as well as the many other vital contributions PNNL has made to the frontiers of science and engineering in service to our country and the world. Thank you for your attention to PNNL and please do not hesitate to contact us if we can be of assistance. Sincerely,
02.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Derek Kilmer (D-WA) and Dan Newhouse (R-WA) reintroduced legislation to force the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) to move forward on fixes to its mismanagement issues. Their bill, the VA Management Alignment Act of 2017, would direct the head of the VA to issue a report to Congress detailing the steps they will take to reorganize and effectively improve veterans’ access to quality care. The legislation, supported by the American Legion and the American Federation of Government Employees, follows the release of comprehensive studies that uncovered management problems at the VHA. The reports that have been issued so far by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) have uncovered problems with the VA’s human resource department and that the VA did not follow through on internal and Congressional recommendations to fix the problems of manipulated wait times and management failures. Additional reports will be released to the public this year. “Veterans have sacrificed to protect us – we need to have their backs,” said Kilmer. “Stories and reports about manipulated wait times and mismanagement in our VA system proved that systemic reforms were needed. We are calling on the VA to address management challenges and improve care so veterans get the services they have earned.” “Every veteran deserves the highest level of care,” said Newhouse. “The men and women who served in uniform demonstrated their willingness to sacrifice for our country, and now it’s our responsibility to ensure the VA undertakes a framework to address systemic problems. Rep. Kilmer and I are committed to ensuring our nation’s veterans have access to accountable, improved care.” The bill from Kilmer and Newhouse calls for the VA to deliver their report to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives within 180 days of the act’s passage. The report would spell out the roles and responsibilities for senior staff and organizational units within the VA and how they work together to promote efficiency and accountability. In 2014, news reports came out about patient delays at the Phoenix VA and other facilities across the country. A national audit of the VA was conducted and it was found at the time that the VA Puget Sound hospital had new patients waiting 59 days – on average – for an appointment. Nearly 100,000 veterans use the VA Puget Sound system. Nationally, the audit found that 13 percent of VA schedulers reported that supervisors told them to manipulate appointments to make wait times look shorter. The original GAO report evaluated how well the VHA followed through on recommendations to change management practices from internal and outside reviews of the organization. It also looked at how well a realignment of Veterans Integrated Service Networks (VISN) from 21 to 18 was being carried out. Each VISN oversees all VA facilities and personnel in separate regions of the country.
02.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Marcia L. Fudge (D-OH), Chellie Pingree (D-ME) and James P. McGovern (D-MA) introduced The Food Donation Act of 2017. The bill clarifies and enhances coverage under The Bill Emerson Good Samaritan Food Donation Act (Emerson Act) which promotes food donation by protecting food donors and food recovery organizations. “The law should never discourage people from taking action to help their neighbor,” said Congressman Newhouse. “The Food Donation Act will provide clarity and protections to farmers, retailers, and non-profits seeking in good faith to assist the hungry. These important reforms will reduce waste of safe and perfectly good food that could be used to help people.” “Food insecurity is an urgent problem in our nation, but there are businesses and organizations trying to help.” said Congresswoman Fudge. “The Food Donation Act supports them by increasing liability protections and creating new ways to donate while eliminating food waste. This bill goes a long way in helping to feed families in need.” "Fifty million Americans don’t have enough to eat, but I am hopeful that innovative donation models can get more healthy, safe food to hungry people. This legislation takes common-sense and overdue steps to address food insecurity. By easing liability fears, businesses will be able to donate more food that is safe and perfectly good to eat.” said Congresswoman Pingree. “America is the richest country in the world, but 40 percent of the food we produce goes uneaten. This is astounding. We must work harder to stop this waste and make sure this perfectly good food is put to good use by helping to feed the millions of American families who struggle with hunger every year,” said Congressman McGovern, Ranking Member on the House Agriculture Nutrition Subcommittee. “I’m proud to join my friends Marcia Fudge, Chellie Pingree, and Dan Newhouse in this bipartisan effort to update and strengthen the Emerson Good Samaritan Act, and look forward to working with my colleagues on the Agriculture Committee to make further progress on reducing food waste during consideration of the 2018 Farm Bill.” Nationwide, food insecurity, or the percentage of households who are uncertain they are able acquire enough food, is 13.7 percent. Click here to read The Food Donation Act of 2017.
02.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) introduced H.R. 875, Bureau of Reclamation Water Project Streamlining Act of 2017 to streamline the Bureau of Reclamation’s environmental planning and study process for new water projects. The bill would apply the same streamlined water project development process used by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers under the Water Resources Reform Development Act of 2014 to the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation in order to facilitate the construction of new dams and reservoirs. While very similar to H.R. 2097, which was introduced in the 114th Congress, H.R. 875 broadens the legislation to include additional surface water storage projects, water infrastructure projects, rural water projects, water recycling, and Title XVI water projects. “Streamlining water storage and infrastructure projects will help communities in the arid West plan for the future,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The growth of our communities and our ability to confront frequent drought depend on access to new water resources, so the framework for developing these projects should not be bogged down by delayed permits and endless reviews.” For the text of the legislation, click here. BACKGROUND: The Bureau of Reclamation Surface Water Storage Streamlining Act requires the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) to accelerate studies and provide more accountability in the agency’s process to study the feasibility of new and or expanded surface water storage. The legislation would provide the same streamlined water project development process for BOR surface water storage projects that the “Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014” (WRRDA) gave to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps). The goal of the legislation is to reform the current cumbersome, lengthy process so that there is a mechanism to build new surface water storage projects in the West. The bill is designed to speed up BOR’s feasibility study process on surface water storage that “would be owned, funded, or operated” by the agency. The legislation also requires reporting and transparency requirements to provide agency justifications on why feasibility studies are not being completed in a timely manner. The bill closely resembles provisions included in WRRDA. The conference report for WRRDA, which includes nearly identical provisions for the Corps, passed both Houses in the 113th Congress (by a vote of 412-4 in the House and 91-7 in the Senate). BILL HIGHLIGHTS: Requires future Reclamation feasibility studies to be completed with three years after the date of initiation and have a maximum federal cost of $3 million. The bill provides for a maximum seven year extension of that time and cost if the Interior Secretary provides a detailed justification to the non-federal project sponsor and the Congress. Requires the Interior Secretary to expedite the completion of any ongoing feasibility studies initiated before the date of enactment. If the Secretary determines that the project is justified in a completed report, he/she shall proceed to proceed to pre-construction planning, engineering and design of the project. Directs the Interior Secretary to develop and implement a coordinated environmental review process with Reclamation and the non-federal project sponsor as lead agencies for expedited environmental review of a project. The bill further directs the lead agencies to establish a schedule for completion of a study and lays out financial penalties to the Interior Secretary if timelines are not met. Directs the Interior Secretary to develop and submit a report to the relevant committees in Congress that identifies project report, proposed project and proposed modifications to studies and federal and non-federal cost estimates for all three. These activities would be similar to the feasibility studies listed in Section 7002 of P.L. 113-121, which authorized construction of projects by Congress.
02.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Jim Costa (D-CA), and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA)) introduced H.R. 848, the Farm Regulatory Certainty Act. H.R. 848 reaffirms and clarifies Congress’ intent regarding the inappropriateness of subjecting agricultural operation nutrient management activities under the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA). It also codifies the Environmental Protection Agency’s regulations regarding the treatment of agricultural operation nutrients under RCRA. Finally, the legislation will offer increased protection for individuals diligently seeking to treat identified issues, and prevent farmers from being targeted twice if they are already engaged in legal action or are making a diligent attempt to work with the state or federal government to address issues. Rep. Newhouse: “One of the fundamental principles of our free system of government is for the law to be clear, comprehensible, and knowable. Otherwise, it would be impossible to comply with ever-changing government regulations that do not follow the intent of a statute written by Congress. As a farmer, I know that the agriculture community works to comply with necessary regulations that preserve our environment, but rules that are redefined after the fact only create uncertainty and liability where there should be a bright line. I am introducing this legislation to provide needed clarity and reaffirm the intention of Congress when applying rules for nutrient management practices.” Rep. Costa: “This legislation would reduce unfair regulatory burdens on farmers, ranchers, and dairymen who were never supposed to be subject to nutrient management regulations under the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA). Now more than ever, due to changing weather patterns and a constantly fluctuating marketplace, farmers are dealing with unpredictable circumstances, and the Farm Regulatory Certainty Act would reign in overly aggressive regulatory efforts and re-establish the Congressional intent of RCRA. American farmers, ranchers, and dairymen are some of the strongest environmental stewards, and this legislation will ease their concerns of frivolous lawsuits so their operations can thrive.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers: “The Farm Regulatory Certainty Act will help provide much-needed legal clarity and certainty for our farmers and for the state and federal agencies who enforce these regulations. I’m committed to creating a collaborative culture, where our farmers can, in good faith, work with state and federal agencies to comply with regulations and reduce their environmental footprint.” Rep. Newhouse, Rep. Costa, and Rep. McMorris Rodgers were joined by original cosponsors Rep. Ralph Abraham (R-LA), Rep. Sanford Bishop (D-GA), Rep. Michael Conaway (R-TX), Rep. Chris Collins (R-NY), Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Rep. Henry Cuellar, Ph.D. (D-TX), Rep. Jeff Denham (R-CA), Rep. Bob Gibbs (R-OH), Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), Rep. Steve King (R-IA), Rep. Billy Long (R-MO), Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO), Rep. Devin Nunes (R-CA), Rep. Tom O’Halleran (D-AZ), Rep. Collin C. Peterson (D-MN), Rep. Robert Pittenger (R-NC), Rep. David Rouzer (R-NC), Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Rep. David Scott (D-GA), Rep. Mike Simpson (R-ID), Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY), Rep. Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (R-PA), Rep. David G. Valadao (R-CA), Rep. Filemon Vela (D-TX), Rep. Ann Wagner (R-MO), and Rep. Ted S. Yoho, DVM (R-FL). The Farm Regulatory Certainty Act would: Reaffirm and clarify congressional intent regarding the inappropriateness of subjecting agricultural nutrients to RCRA. Codify the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) regulations regarding the treatment of agricultural nutrients under RCRA. Prevent farmers who are already engaged in legal action or are making a diligent attempt to work with the state or federal government to address nutrient management issues from being targeted by citizen suits. The Farm Regulatory Certainty Act would not: Prevent the EPA from enforcing current regulations under the Safe Water Drinking Act, the Clean Water Act, or any other applicable law. Exempt livestock producers from any laws or regulations intended to govern agricultural operations. Background: In early 2015, a federal judge in Washington State erroneously ruled against several dairy farmers that nitrates found in groundwater – commonly a byproduct of manure and fertilizers – were a “solid waste” under the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and that high water nitrate levels constituted “open dumping”. While farmers are subject to numerous water statutes, this misguided judicial decision unfortunately neglects the fact that RCRA – a law intended to govern safe disposal of solid wastes in sanitary landfills – was never intended to regulate agricultural operation nutrient management activities. In fact, the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) original 1979 RCRA regulations include exceptions for agricultural byproducts returned to the soil as nutrients. This decision places our entire agricultural community in a gray area of legal uncertainty. Farmers are now uncertain which statutes govern their nutrient management activities, and are open to increased liability from RCRA citizen suits based on undefined standards. Moreover, in the Washington State case, the farmers being sued under RCRA were working with EPA to address nutrient management issues prior to the citizen suit being filed. This inappropriate application of RCRA puts farmers on the defensive, and discourages proactive, voluntary stewardship of their land and water. For the complete text of the legislation, click here.
01.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA joined a bipartisan group of members to cosponsor legislation to protect undocumented young people brought to the United States as children. Rep. Newhouse cosponsored H.R. 496, the Bar Removal of Individuals who Dream and Grow our Economy (BRIDGE) Act, which would provide temporary relief from deportation and provide work authorization to undocumented youth. “From our founding, America has been a nation of immigrants and a nation of laws,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Our own communities in Central Washington are a testament to the contributions of immigrants to the fabric of American society. It is the sole responsibility of Congress to write laws that provide a humane solution to our broken immigration system. Rather than affording protection, President Obama’s unconstitutional Executive Order left families across this country in legal limbo. I am proud to join my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to protect children brought here through no fault of their own. These children and young adults deserve stability here in the U.S. while Congress comes together on long term immigration reform to provide a permanent solution for them, secure our borders, and build a reasonable and accessible immigration system going forward.” H.R. 496 was introduced in the House by Reps. Mike Coffman (R-CO) and Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL). Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Senators Lindsay Graham (R-SC) and Dick Durbin (D-IL). Click here for background on the BRIDGE Act.
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on voting today to support passage of H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2017, which Rep. Newhouse cosponsored. H.R. 7 would make the Hyde Amendment, a longstanding prohibition on taxpayer funding for abortions through government programs, permanent and apply government-wide. The legislation also requires full disclosure of the extent to which any health insurance plan on the Affordable Care Act exchange provides for abortion procedures. “The Hyde Amendment is a critical provision of law that has long protected American taxpayers from being coerced into funding abortion,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Instead of passing it annually as an amendment, this legislation makes it permanent to reaffirm that taxpayers will not pay for the taking of the lives of unborn children. I am also pleased that this legislation ensures Americans have all the information they need so that they can select insurance plans that conform to their conscience.”
01.24.2017	Washington, DC – Today, members of the Washington State Congressional Republican delegation, Reps. Dave Reichert, Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Dan Newhouse, and Jaime Herrera Beutler, sent a letter to Washington Governor Jay Inslee and Insurance Commissioner Mike Kreidler outlining their priorities for healthcare reform and concerns about Obamacare’s impact on Washington residents. This letter served as a response to a letter Governor Inslee sent the congressional leaders regarding healthcare coverage in Washington. We firmly believe that everyone, including individuals with pre-existing conditions, should have access to health care coverage. That coverage should protect the sanctity of the patient-doctor relationship; provide choice because one-size does not fit all; and most importantly be affordable. While Americans that were previously uninsured may now have health care coverage, it means nothing if they cannot afford to use it – and the numbers show that today’s health insurance is woefully unaffordable. Individuals and their families deserve health care reform that is done thoughtfully and responsibly with a smooth transition, and no one should have the rug pulled out from underneath them. Therefore, as we repeal the ACA we are also diligently working with local stakeholders, health care experts, Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle, and the Administration to enact long-term, 21st century solutions that give people access to affordable, quality health care coverage focused on personalized, patient-centered care. It’s time to put Americans back in control of their health care decisions. Read the full contents of the letter below: Dear Governor Inslee: Thank you for your letter regarding the Affordable Care Act (ACA). We appreciate your attention to this important issue impacting Washingtonians and Americans across the country. Like you, we firmly believe that everyone, including individuals with pre-existing conditions, should have access to health care coverage. That coverage should protect the sanctity of the patient-doctor relationship; provide choice because one-size does not fit all; and most importantly be affordable. While Americans that were previously uninsured may now have health care coverage, it means nothing if they cannot afford to use it – and the numbers show that today’s health insurance is woefully unaffordable. Premiums are skyrocketing across the country with double digit increases. In Washington, premiums rose as high as 24.7 percent with an average increase of 13.6 percent for 2017. Deductibles are on the same trajectory with record increases especially in our state. This year, the number of plans with deductibles at or over $6,000 more than tripled from 8 plans in 2016 to 28 plans. These rising costs are also not isolated to the individual marketplace. Employer-based family plans now cost on average $18,000 per year, which is $4,400 more than the average cost before the ACA was signed into law. Exacerbating the high out-of-pocket costs is the continued, steady departure of insurance companies from the marketplace. For 2016, 143 plans were offered in Washington’s exchange by 12 insurers. Now in 2017, only nine insurers are offering 98 plans. In a third of our counties across the nation, Americans will only have one option for health care coverage in the exchanges, including residents of Klickitat and San Juan Counties in Washington -- and that’s not a choice at all. We would also like to point out that the ACA forced 80 percent of newly insured Washingtonians into Medicaid - a safety net program that has been plagued by severe access problems, poor quality of care, and unsustainable funding. A study by researchers at Harvard University recently found that not only did Medicaid spending increase by $1,100 per person in Oregon, but beneficiaries of the state’s Medicaid program had no better clinically-measured health outcomes than individuals who had no insurance at all. Again, while adding more individuals to Medicaid may boost coverage numbers, it does not mean greater access to care for individuals and their families. We must not allow the ACA to jeopardize Medicaid’s viability for the vulnerable populations it was meant to serve - the poor, elderly, disabled, and children. Even though the law has undergone 70 significant changes to date - 24 of which were solutions offered and passed in Congress, and signed into law by the president - 8 out of 10 Americans still want the law repealed in its entirety or significantly changed. Which is why we are taking immediate action to provide relief to the American people from the ACA’s many failures. Individuals and their families deserve health care reform that is done thoughtfully and responsibly with a smooth transition, and no one should have the rug pulled out from underneath them. Therefore, as we repeal the ACA we are also diligently working with local stakeholders, health care experts, Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle, and the Administration to enact long-term, 21st century solutions that give people access to affordable, quality health care coverage focused on personalized, patient-centered care. It’s time to put Americans back in control of their health care decisions. Again, thank you for your comments. As we work on behalf of our constituents to ensure America’s health care system works for everyone, we encourage your continued thoughts and collaboration.
01.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the official swearing-in ceremony of President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence: “Today we celebrated the peaceful transfer of power from former-President Obama to President Trump. As Americans, we can be grateful for yet another orderly transition of power that continues our experiment of self-government. Although this happens every four years, we should not take this democratic tradition that preserves the rule of law for granted. I am looking forward to working with President Trump, Vice President Pence, and all of my colleagues in Congress to ensure that our freedoms are defended, that America is safe, and that our economy is strong. It is the end of the status quo in our government, and I look forward to a new day in our nation’s capital.”
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after supporting House passage of S. Con. Res. 3, the FY17 Budget Resolution. “Obamacare is broken, and beginning the reconciliation process is the first step of a unified Republican government’s promise to repeal it in order to provide relief for Americans hurting under this failed law,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Repealing Obamacare’s individual mandate and maintaining protections for people with pre-existing conditions are key elements of the House Republicans’ Better Way blueprint for health care. I look forward to working with all of my colleagues in the House and Senate, as well as the incoming Trump administration, on timing for repeal and additional legislative details for replacement to provide all Americans with more choice, flexibility, and lower costs.”
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) introduced, H.R. 476, the Veterans Emergency Treatment (VET) Act. The legislation is a response to incidents of mismanagement and the subsequent mistreatment of veterans, including the case of a 64-year-old Army veteran from Kennewick, who was refused assistance from his car to the emergency room at a Seattle Veterans Administration hospital in February of 2015. “It is unacceptable that any veteran would be denied their request for emergency assistance from the VA,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I will continue to push for legislative reforms to right this wrong on behalf of all veterans who have worn the uniform to serve our country.” Joining Rep. Newhouse as original cosponsors of H.R. 476 are Reps. Louie Gohmert (R-TX), Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Walter Jones (R-NC), Roger Marshall (R-KS), Pete Olson (R-TX), Amata Coleman Radewagen (R-AS), and David Young (R-IA). The legislation is identical to H.R. 3216, which Rep. Newhouse introduced in 2016 and which was approved in the House on a unanimous voice vote. Highlights of H.R. 426 The Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA) was enacted by Congress in 1986 and is designed to prevent hospitals from transferring, or “dumping,” uninsured patients at public hospitals. While a 2007 Veterans Health Administration (VHA) directive indicates that the VA complies with the intent of the EMTALA requirements, VA hospitals are considered to be “non-participating” hospitals and are therefore not obligated to fulfill EMTALA requirements. The VET Act would create similar EMTALA requirements for VA hospitals serving enrolled veterans. H.R. 476 requires: A VA hospital to conduct a medical examination of an enrolled veteran to determine if an emergency medical condition exists; If such condition exists, the VA hospital must either stabilize the patient or comply with the statutory requirements of a proper transfer; and If an emergency medical condition exists and has not been stabilized, the hospital may not transfer the patient unless the patient, after being made aware of the risks, makes a transfer request in writing or a physician certifies that the medical benefits of a transfer outweigh the risks.
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after his appointment to serve on the House Appropriations Committee Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, the Subcommittee on Homeland Security, and the Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch. The House Appropriations Committee exercises jurisdiction over all federal discretionary spending. “It is an honor to have the opportunity to serve on the committee with responsibility for stewarding Americans’ tax dollars,” said Rep. Newhouse. "Serving on the House Committee on Appropriations gives Central Washington a greater voice in federal spending decisions, and it will allow me to address priorities on a wide range of key issues for the 4th Congressional District. The full committee funds all discretionary spending including federal agriculture programs, the Department of Agriculture, and U.S. Forest Service projects, as well as important areas such as animal and plant health programs, food product safety, rural development and farm services, marketplace oversight, and nutrition programs. The Energy and Water Development Subcommittee possesses jurisdiction over matters that are also vital for agriculture, such as the WaterSMART grant program, livestock grazing, water resources, and drought mitigation. Additionally, Energy and Water Development oversees spending for federal water projects and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Department of Interior, and the Bureau of Reclamation, which will be critical for the next phase of the Yakima Basin Integrated Plan and irrigation in the West. The Homeland Security Subcommittee provides an avenue to addressing ways to improve our broken immigration system. These subcommittee assignments will also ensure that federal responsibilities to support Hanford cleanup and the ground breaking scientific research and development at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory are fulfilled.” The Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, chaired by Rep. Mike Simpson (R-ID), appropriates funding for the Department of Energy, the Department of the Interior, Bonneville Power Administration, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and other agencies. Click here for a complete list. The Subcommittee on Homeland Security, chaired by Rep. John Carter (R-TX), appropriates all funding for the Department of Homeland Security and its agencies. The Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch, chaired by Rep. Kevin Yoder (R-KS), is responsible for federal appropriations for the offices of Members of the House of Representatives, the support agencies of Congress, security and police forces, services for visitors, and Capitol operations and maintenance. Click here for a complete list. Although Rep. Newhouse will relinquish his current seats on the Agriculture Committee and the Natural Resources Committee in order to serve on House Appropriations, the Appropriations Committee jurisdiction includes appropriating for agriculture, U.S. Forest Service, and the Bureau of Reclamation. Rep. Newhouse continues to serve on the House Committee on Rules.
01.11.2017	WASHINGTON – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) announced that he has nominated 12 students across Central Washington for consideration to attend U.S. military academies including West Point, the Naval Academy, the Merchant Marine Academy, and the Air Force Academy. The nominations followed an interview process that included Rep. Newhouse’s military academy advisory board, and the final determination for admittance will be made by the respective academies. The honor of attending a service academy comes with the obligation and commitment to serve in the military for a minimum of five years upon graduation. “The desire of these young people to serve our country in uniform represents our best hopes for the next generation,” said Rep. Newhouse. “One of the highest honors of serving as the Fourth District’s representative in Congress is the opportunity to nominate outstanding young men and women based on their quality of character and academic achievement.” U.S. Military Academy at West Point Nominees Christian Gardner-Domingos of Pasco Christian is a senior at Chiawana High School and the son of Cherie Lynne Domingos. Clayton Porcaro of Richland Clayton is a senior at Hanford High School and the son of Paul and Melissa Porcaro. Felix Trevino of Kennewick Felix is a senior at Southridge High School and the son of Roger Trevino and Amy Rieck. U.S. Naval Academy Nominees Matthew Brink of West Richland Matthew is a senior at Hanford High School and the son of Frederick and Monika Brink. Chloe McBurney of Richland Chloe is a senior at Richland High School and the daughter of David and Melissa McBurney. Clayton Porcaro of Richland Clayton is a senior at Hanford High School and the son of Paul and Melissa Porcaro. Leah Snyder of Richland Leah is a senior at Delta High School and the daughter of Roger and Leslie Snyder. U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Nominee Tristan Barnett of Kennewick Tristan is a senior at Kamiakin High School and the son of Mikal and Katheryn Barnett. U.S. Air Force Academy Nominees Andrew Diddens of Sunnyside Andrew is a senior at Sunnyside High School and the son of Mark and Kristine Diddens. Lindsey Evers of Yakima Lindsey is a senior at West Valley High School and the daughter of Jason and Salliejo Evers. Jonathan Imperial of Wapato Jonathan is a senior at A.C. Davis High School and the son of Manuel and Barbara Imperial. Clayton Porcaro of Richland Clayton is a senior at Hanford High School and the son of Paul and Melissa Porcaro. Martin Sample Yakima Martin is a senior at West Valley High School and the son of Mark and Laura Sample. Lakota Wills of Richland Lakota is a senior at Richland High School and the son of Jerrell Wills and Jamie Thompson. Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. For more information or to obtain an application packet for next year’s nominations, click here or contact Rep. Newhouse’s Tri-Cities office at 3100 George Washington Way #135 Richland, (509) 713-7374.
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) sent a letter to former Texas Gov. Rick Perry, who has been selected by President-elect Trump to serve as Secretary of the Department of Energy (DOE), inviting him to tour the Hanford site. Rep. Newhouse wrote in the letter: “The Hanford site is the largest defense nuclear cleanup site in the country and is one of 17 such sites being remediated under DOE’s Environmental Management (EM) program. As you begin your tenure as our next Secretary of Energy I would like to personally invite you to tour the Hanford site, which will provide you with a unique understanding of the challenges facing Hanford and the importance of ensuring the site has the adequate support and resources necessary to complete its cleanup mission. The federal government, and DOE more specifically, is responsible for the cleanup of radioactive and nuclear waste at Hanford, which is critical to the Tri-Cities community, the State of Washington, and the Pacific Northwest region.” Rep. Newhouse continued in the letter: “While many activities of the federal government are not legally required, cleanup of our nation’s defense nuclear waste is not optional – the federal government has a legal and moral obligation to ensure the cleanup mission at the Hanford site is completed. To do so requires strong support from the Administration, DOE, and Congress, which is why one of my top priorities since taking office has been to ensure Hanford has the resources necessary to move cleanup forward safely, efficiently, and in a timely manner, as part of the overarching goal of preparing the Mid-Columbia region for a bright post-cleanup future.” Rep. Newhouse continued: “Nuclear waste cleanup at Hanford has a significant impact on the 4th Congressional District, the State of Washington, and the Pacific Northwest. Ensuring a path forward at Hanford that enables the federal government’s existing legal cleanup commitments to be kept, builds upon success that has been achieved, avoids cleanup delays that will ultimately cost the taxpayers more, and makes the cleanup program a priority is critical to our region and to the nation.” The full text of the letter is included below. January 4, 2017 The Honorable Rick Perry Nominee, Secretary of the Department of Energy Transition Team Headquarters – Trump Tower 725 5th Avenue New York, New York 10022 Dear Governor Perry, I write to congratulate you on your recent selection to serve as Secretary of the Department of Energy (DOE) under President-Elect Donald Trump, as well as to provide you with information on the Hanford Nuclear Reservation located in the State of Washington. The Hanford site is the largest defense nuclear cleanup site in the country and is one of 17 such sites being remediated under DOE’s Environmental Management (EM) program. As you begin your tenure as our next Secretary of Energy I would like to personally invite you to tour the Hanford site, which will provide you with a unique understanding of the challenges facing Hanford and the importance of ensuring the site has the adequate support and resources necessary to complete its cleanup mission. The federal government, and DOE more specifically, is responsible for the cleanup of radioactive and nuclear waste at Hanford, which is critical to the Tri-Cities community, the State of Washington, and the Pacific Northwest region. Over 75 years ago the Central Washington region underwent a drastic transformation to assist with the Manhattan Project, leading to the creation of the 586-square mile Hanford site in 1943. Hanford produced plutonium for the first atomic bomb and played a critical role in helping the United States win World War II, and later the Cold War. The weapons activities at Hanford pioneered the technology required to successfully extract plutonium from irradiated uranium, leading to the production of more than 65 percent of the nation’s plutonium at Hanford. Our nation’s security has benefited from the nuclear defense programs that created large quantities of radioactive and non-radioactive wastes at 17 defense nuclear sites located in 11 states across the country. This nuclear deterrent protected America and our allies, and was made possible by the sacrifice and dedication of the workers at sites like Hanford. However, these efforts came at a high cost, affecting our environment and the workforce. As a result of the plutonium production activities at the site, there is currently 56 million gallons of radioactive and hazardous waste stored in 177 underground tanks at Hanford. Following the cessation of plutonium production in 1989, the weapons production mission shifted to a cleanup mission focused on the millions of gallons of liquid radioactive waste, thousands of tons of spent nuclear fuel, large volumes of transuranic and mixed/low level waste, huge volumes of contaminated soil and groundwater, and thousands of excess facilities. While many activities of the federal government are not legally required, cleanup of our nation’s defense nuclear waste is not optional – the federal government has a legal and moral obligation to ensure the cleanup mission at the Hanford site is completed. To do so requires strong support from the Administration, DOE, and Congress, which is why one of my top priorities since taking office has been to ensure Hanford has the resources necessary to move cleanup forward safely, efficiently, and in a timely manner, as part of the overarching goal of preparing the Mid-Columbia region for a bright post-cleanup future. If funding for Hanford is not sufficient to meet the site’s critical cleanup needs, more cleanup work will be postponed – ultimately leading to higher costs for taxpayers, increased risk of contamination to groundwater and the Columbia River, as well as lawsuits and fines for missed “Tri-Party Agreement” deadlines and Consent Decree milestones. There are two DOE offices at Hanford managing cleanup operations: the Office of River Protection (ORP) and the Richland Operations Office. ORP is responsible for the retrieval, treatment, and disposal of the millions of gallons of liquid radioactive waste stored at the site and the office’s mission is to address the risks posed by this tank waste by immobilizing it through a process known as vitrification. The vitrification process relies on the completion of the Waste Treatment Plant (WTP) at Hanford, as well as supporting facilities to transfer the waste from the tank farms to an operational WTP, in order to dispose of the waste in a safe, effi­cient manner. This is the largest and most complex environmental remediation project in the nation and is critical to the safety and well-being of those who live in the Central Washington region and downstream along the Columbia River. The Richland Operations Office (RL) is responsible for all non-tank waste cleanup activities throughout Hanford, including soil and groundwater remediation, facility decontamination and decommissioning, stabilization and disposition of nuclear materials and spent nuclear fuel, and the disposition of non-tank waste. The office oversees work performed by contractors, as well as site infrastructure needs and many other programs that are necessary to ensure the safety of Hanford employees and cleanup operations. While RL has had great success with its cleanup activities along the Columbia River Corridor, many important projects remain, such as remediation of the 324 building and completion of the 618-10 burial ground, continued groundwater remediation that prevents dangerous contaminants from reaching the Columbia River, as well as the decontamination and destruction of waste sites and facilities in the Central Plateau, which still require additional cleanup work. Additionally, it is of critical importance to the Hanford mission that we move forward with the establishment of a permanent repository for storage of our nation’s defense nuclear waste at Yucca Mountain, which remains the sole legal and congressionally-mandated repository. The Yucca Mountain program has been planned and funded by Congress since 1987, and defense nuclear waste cleanup depends on the completion of Yucca after decades of work and the expenditure of billions of taxpayer dollars. Yucca is a crucial link in the matrix of America’s nuclear program and can safely store high-level radioactive waste for one million years, which is why I urge you to support completion of the repository, as well as a return to responsible management of our spent nuclear fuel. Nuclear waste cleanup at Hanford has a significant impact on the 4th Congressional District, the State of Washington, and the Pacific Northwest. Ensuring a path forward at Hanford that enables the federal government’s existing legal cleanup commitments to be kept, builds upon success that has been achieved, avoids cleanup delays that will ultimately cost the taxpayers more, and makes the cleanup program a priority is critical to our region and to the nation. As you begin your service as our next Secretary of Energy, I recognize there will be many competing priorities under the purview of your Department and I stand willing and ready to work with you to provide Hanford, as well as the entire EM Complex, with the support necessary for the federal government to meet its legal, moral and contractual cleanup obligations. Thank you for your attention to this important matter and please do not hesitate to contact my Congressional office if we can be of assistance in arranging a visit to the Hanford site or on any other Hanford or DOE-related matters. Sincerely,
01.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) announced that he has been nominated by the House Republican Steering Committee to serve on the House Appropriations Committee, chaired by Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ): “Wise stewardship of taxpayers’ funds is one of the most important responsibilities of representing Central Washington in Congress,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Too often, the federal government forgets that it's hard-working Americans who pay the bills. Joining the powerful House Appropriations Committee will help me protect our tax dollars from being spent wastefully and will help ensure important Central Washington priorities such as Hanford cleanup, the Yakima Training Center, agriculture, water storage, and wildfire prevention, are supported. I look forward to working with Chairman Frelinghuysen and my colleagues to restore Congress’ constitutional power of the purse.” Chairman Frelinghuysen: “I welcome Congressman Newhouse to the Appropriations Committee and I look forward to working with him. I know he will use his vast experience as a public servant, farmer, and small businessman to exercise strong fiscal oversight and make every dollar count.” The House Appropriations Committee exercises jurisdiction over all federal discretionary spending. ###
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA), released the following statement after taking the oath of office in the official swearing-in ceremony to represent Washington’s Fourth Congressional District in the 115th Congress: “I am honored to represent the people of Washington’s Fourth Congressional District as their voice in the People’s House. As I took the oath today to support and defend our Constitution, my thoughts were on the liberty we possess under God and the men and women of courage who have sacrificed to ensure that we enjoy the blessings of freedom. It is our duty to safeguard those rights for succeeding generations. I look forward to restoring the limited role of government that is consistent with the Founders’ vision of self-government, individual liberty, and the rule of law. Upon being sworn in, I immediately cosponsored several pieces of legislation that are a priority to the citizens of the Fourth District. The people of Central Washington deserve thoughtful and responsive federal representation that keeps our community’s best interests as the highest priority. I am humbled by this opportunity to serve.” Rep. Newhouse immediately cosponsored the following bills and resolutions at the start of the 115th Congress: H.R. XX, the Obamacare Repeal Act, sponsored by Rep. Steve King (R-IA), to fully repeal the Affordable Care Act in its entirety; H.R. XX, the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2017, sponsored by Rep. Richard Hudson (R-NC), to recognize 2nd Amendment rights by ensuring valid concealed carry permits issued in one state are valid for carrying concealed handguns in other states that also recognize their own residents’ right to conceal carry. Each state retains the authority to determine regulations for carrying within their borders, as well as for the carry permits issued under their law; H.J. Res. XX, Disapproving a rule submitted by the Department of Health and Human Services relating to ‘‘Compliance with Title X Requirements by Project Recipients in Selecting Subrecipients,’’ sponsored by Rep. Luke Messer (R-IN). The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) recently finalized a rule that would prohibit states from blocking some funds from facilities that provide abortions. Effectively, this rule forces states to provide any qualifying funds to facilities that provide abortions, such as Planned Parenthood. This resolution would allow Congress to stop this rule under the Congressional Review Act (CRA); H.R. XX, the Encourage New Legalized Immigrants to Start Training (ENLIST) Act, sponsored by Rep. Jeff Denham (R-CA), would allow otherwise qualified undocumented immigrants, who entered the U.S. as children and who are otherwise qualified for enlistment, the ability to gain legal status through military service. Through their patriotism, legal status would be earned with their honorable service should they choose to pursue it. The ENLIST Act would not change immigration law, but it would allow young immigrants the chance to serve the country they love. The measure has strong bipartisan support and should be a top item of discussion as Congress considers much-needed reforms to our broken immigration system. H.J. Res. XX, Proposing a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution of the United States, sponsored by Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA). The Balanced Budget Amendment (BBA) will consist of four parts: (1) it contains a requirement for a balanced annual federal budget, (2) places a spending cap on annual federal spending, (3) imposes a three-fifths supermajority vote requirement to increase the debt limit, and (4) includes a three-fifths majority requirement to raise taxes. Additionally, Rep. Goodlatte introduced another BBA that would require Congress not to spend more than it receives in revenues, would compel a true majority of each chamber to pass a tax increase, and would obligate a three-fifths majority to raise the debt limit.
12.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) announced the winners of the Fourth Congressional District’s second annual Congressional App Challenge, an app competition for high school students. Tri-Tech Skills Center seniors Tobias (Toby) Williams, Jamas Middleton, and Elijah Stiham, of Kennewick, have been named the competition winners for their app called “Trinity Complex,” which is an open world, first-person game app in which the player must navigate through a virtual environment to collect six keys. “The Congressional App Challenge encourages development of the creativity and computer skills that our young people will need to succeed,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I am proud to recognize Toby Williams, Jamas Middleton, and Elijah Stiham for their team’s achievement in winning the Fourth Congressional District’s second annual Congressional App Challenge.” You can see a preview of the app by clicking here. The winning app was selected by a panel of local judges and will receive a prize tour of Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. The winners will also share $400 in Amazon Web Services credits donated by Amazon for the challenge. The winning app will be featured on a video display in the U.S. Capitol building. The Congressional App Challenge (CAC) was created because Congress recognized that Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education skills are essential for economic growth and innovation, and that the U.S. has been falling behind on these fronts. According to the U.S. Department of Commerce, STEM occupations are projected to grow by 17% between 2008 and 2018, compared to 9.8% growth for non-STEM occupations. According to some estimates, the U.S. may be short as many as 3 million high-skilled workers by 2018. To maintain American competitiveness, it is crucial that the U.S. industry invest in our youth now and help them acquire necessary STEM-based skills. The CAC highlights and encourages students to pursue those skills. Last year’s Fourth District App Challenge winners, Cinthia Santiago Villanueva and Esmeralda Lopez, students at Harrison Middle School in Sunnyside, won the challenge with an app they designed called the Agricultural Job Finder.
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today released the following statement after voting for H.R. 2028, the Further Continuing and Security Assistance Appropriations Act, 2017, which funds the federal government through April, 2017. “This continuing resolution gives the incoming administration of President-elect Trump the time it has indicated that it needs to transition and have a greater say in the appropriations process,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Under typical circumstances a short-term CR is far from ideal, but the election has upended the political landscape for the upcoming year and it is reasonable to give the new administration time to work with us to craft a responsible spending plan. This legislation also paves the way for congressional approval of Gen. James N. Mattis, a Tri-Citian, as Secretary of Defense. I look forward to making progress on Central Washington’s priorities and reining in government spending on conservative terms.”
12.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), expressed his extreme concern to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy regarding the agency’s decision to continue awarding federal grants despite an ongoing investigation into the misuse of taxpayer dollars in the anti-farmer “What’s Upstream” campaign in Washington State. In a letter sent today, Rep. Newhouse urged the EPA to prohibit subgrant awards to “What’s Upstream” in a recent National Estuary Program grant of $25 million over five years made to the National Indian Fisheries Commission – of which organizers of “What’s Upstream” were subgrant recipients – until the completion of the investigation by the EPA Office of Inspector General. Rep. Newhouse released the following statement: “It is unconscionable that before farmers in Washington State receive answers on how taxpayer dollars were used improperly to smear them and to lobby lawmakers, the EPA is continuing to shell out taxpayer dollars with zero accountability,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The EPA has not fulfilled its promise to complete a full review of how anti-farmer propaganda was funded by the taxpayer before making additional grants. I urge Administrator McCarthy in the strongest terms to halt any further awards to subgrantees that participated in the ‘Whats Upstream’ campaign until EPA gets to the bottom of the misuse of taxpayer funds.” Read the full text of Rep. Newhouse’s letter here. Background: EPA Region 10 funded the What’s Upstream website and advocacy campaign that attempts to influence legislators for greater regulation of farmers and ranchers. In April of this year, Administrator McCarthy acknowledged that the EPA was “distressed by the use of the money and the tone of [the What’s Upstream] campaign” and called for a full review of the use of taxpayer funds for the campaign “before additional monies are spent.” In April, the EPA admitted that it should not have funded a campaign in Washington State known as What's Upstream, due to that campaign’s brazen lobbying of state legislators in contravention of federal law. The What's Upstream campaign, which was wholly funded by the EPA, used grant awards to fund a website, radio ads, and billboards depicting dead fish and polluted water, urging individuals to contact their state legislators and, “hold the agricultural industry to the same level of responsibility as other industries.” A large, red button on the website labeled, “Take action! We’ve made it simple,” allowed visitors to easily send an email to their state legislators advocating for 100-foot stream buffer zones and other policies. An EPA Inspector General’s report from 2014 had warned that the EPA region responsible for awarding the grant had insufficient protections in place to ensure awardees were not using funds for advocacy, propaganda, and/or lobbying efforts. According to a December, 2015 report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the EPA violated federal lobbying and advocacy laws by funding social media campaigns supporting EPA’s Waters of the United States (WOTUS) Rule.
12.05.2016	Several Columbia Basin tribes have called for the Ancient One to be returned to his descendants WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (WA-04), Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA), and Rep. Denny Heck (WA-10) announced that a provision in the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act would start the process to return the Ancient One to his rightful resting place. Newhouse, Murray, and Heck have fought to return the remains of the Ancient One, also known as Kennewick Man, to Columbia Basin tribes since Senator Murray introduced the bill in 2015. Companion legislation was introduced by Reps. Newhouse and Heck in the House of Representatives in 2015. The U.S. House of Representatives is expected to consider the legislation first. Experts believe the remains, discovered in 1996 on federal land near the Columbia River, are at least 8,400 years old, making the Ancient One among the oldest and most complete skeletons found in North America. In June 2015, new genetic evidence determined the remains were closer to modern Native Americans than any other population worldwide. “Two decades after his discovery, it is finally time to return the human remains to the Columbia Basin tribes where he belongs,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I was pleased to work with my colleagues in the House and Senate on this bipartisan effort to repatriate the Ancient One.” “This is about doing right by the descendants of the Ancient One,” Senator Murray said. “After more than twenty years of debate, I’m proud to see this legislation so close to finally bringing the Ancient One home, and I will do everything I can to see it over the finish line.” “For two decades, the Native peoples of the Columbia River Basin have strived to rebury their ancestor,” Rep. Heck said. “The inclusion of this important provision in the final water infrastructure agreement honors the rights and traditions of these Tribes. We are close to finally returning the Ancient One home.” The provision championed by Senator Murray in the Senate and by Representatives Heck and Newhouse in the House transfers the Ancient One from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to the Washington Department of Archaeology and Historic Preservation, which has existing, effective, and efficient regulations in place to carry out repatriation of remains such as these, to tribes. Several area tribes have joined together in calling for the Ancient One’s return to his descendants, to be laid to rest in an undisclosed location.
12.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today released the following statement after the House approved the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) conference report on a vote of 375-34. The legislation is expected to be considered in the Senate next week: “With overwhelming bipartisan support, the House has approved the largest pay raise for our troops in six years and funded our military to keep Americans safe,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I am pleased that the legislation included priorities for Central Washington, including strong levels of Hanford funding and land provisions to boost local economic development at the Port of Benton and the McNary Shoreline.” Rep. Newhouse introduced H.R. 5017, the Port of Benton Restriction Release Act of 2016 this year, which was included in the NDAA to lift the conveyance restrictions on a 71.5 acre parcel of land that was deeded to the Port of Benton in 1996 by the United States Maritime Administration (MARAD). The 2017 NDAA conference report unveiled today also includes language directing the Secretary of the Army to provide a report to the congressional defense committees by March 1, 2017 on the process by which the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers acquired certain properties, such as the McNary Shoreline, along the Columbia River by the Corps. The report will include the specific legal documentation pursuant to which the properties were acquired. The bill text reflects Rep. Newhouse’s McNary Shoreline Army Corps Report amendment. The conference report for NDAA authorizes the level of funding requested by Congressman Newhouse to ensure the federal government meets its obligation at the Hanford Site. The report authorizes funding at $785,311,000, an increase from House-passed level of $769,811,000 for the Richland Operations Office (RL) and $1.4875 billion for the Office of River Protection (ORP). Read the letter Rep. Newhouse sent to the House Armed Services Committee to request that support for Hanford cleanup be made a priority in the NDAA.
12.01.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement congratulating retired Marine Gen. James N. Mattis, on his selection by President-elect Trump to lead the U.S. Department of Defense: “Tri-Citians can be proud that one of their own, General Mattis, with a distinguished military service of 41 years and deep knowledge of national security affairs, will serve as the next Secretary of Defense. The selection of Gen. Mattis can give all Americans confidence that President-elect Trump will be focused foremost on the safety and security of the United States.”
12.01.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Reps. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Peter DeFazio. (D-OR), Erik Paulsen (R-MN), and Chellie Pingree (D-ME) led 100 other Members in a letter to the U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack and USDA Under Secretary for Research, Education and Economics, Dr. Cathie Woteki. The letter requests that USDA’s Agricultural Research Service (ARS) increase its commitment to hop-related research to reflect the growing cultural and economic importance of this crop. The Members wrote in the letter: “Overall, the brewing industry generated more than $250 billion in economic activity in 2014, directly and indirectly employing over 1.75 million Americans. This activity is only sustained through a healthy, stable hop market. Hop growers face a variety of challenges, including mites, mildews, blights, and other pests that harm production….The development of new hop varieties that are pest-resistant and climate-tolerant would help growers increase yields while reducing pesticide use. Additionally, while commercial hop production now exists in 29 states, developing new climate-tolerant varieties could help further expand commercial production, putting growers closer to their customers and reducing the threat that a disaster in the Pacific Northwest would affect U.S. and global supplies.” The Members continued: “USDA’s previous hop research has resulted in the development of varieties that are now universal to the industry. The two largest varieties of U.S.-produced hops, Cascade and Centennial, are products of public hop breeding programs. As consumers continue to demand beers with new aroma and flavor traits, research into developing these characteristics could result in significant benefit to growers, brewers, and the customers they serve. “Given these great advantages that would come with additional research, we request that USDA-ARS increase the commitment to hops genetics/molecular biology from 0.7 full time employees (FTE) to 1.0 FTE, while continuing to fund the existing 1.0 FTE pathology research program for FY 2017. This critical boost in research would result in breakthroughs in hop cultivation that will help sustain the significant growth of this important industry.” Background: Currently, USDA’s Agriculture Research Service (ARS) has committed 1.7 full time employee (FTE) scientists to conduct research into hops – one scientist who researches hops pathology, and another who commits 70 percent of efforts to hops genetics research. Despite the growth of the U.S. brewing industry over the past decade to generate more than $250 billion in economic activity, and indirectly support more than 1.75 million jobs, ARS research still only offers a 1.7 FTEs in hop research. Additionally, it has been reported that many brewers are having trouble procuring the types of hops that they need for brewing because the slowly-increasing supplies cannot keep up with the rapidly-growing demand. Signers of the letter include Reps. Newhouse, DeFazio, Paulsen, Pingree, Bilirakis, Bishop (GA), Blumenauer, Bonamici, Bost, Boustany, Butterfield, Cárdenas, Carter (GA), Chabot, Cicilline, Comstock, Conyers, Costello, Cramer, DelBene, DesJarlais, Duffy, Emmer, Farenthold, Farr, Fudge, Gallego, Garamendi, Hanna, Heck (WA), Herrera Beutler, Higgins, Hudson, Huizenga, Huffman, Hurd, Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX), Jones, Kaptur, Kelly (PA), Kilmer, Kind, King (NY), Kuster, Lamborn, Larsen, Lieu, Lipinski, LoBiondo, Loebsack, Lofgren, Lowenthal, Lucas, Luetkemeyer, Lujan Grisham, Lynch, Marino, McCaul, McCollum, McGovern, McHenry, McMorris Rodgers, Meadows, Meehan, Moore, Moulton, Neal, Nolan, Norton, Pascrell, Payne, Pearce, Plaskett, Pocan, Polis, Reichert, Renacci, Rooney, Rouzer, Rush, Sensenbrenner, Schrader, David Scott (GA), Simpson, Sinema, Smith (NE), Speier, Stefanik, Thompson (MS), Thompson (PA), Tipton, Titus, Tonko, Tsongas, Vargas, Wagner, Walberg, Watson Coleman, Welch, Yarmuth, Yoder, Young (AK), Zeldin, Zinke. The full text of the letter is included below. December 1, 2016 Dear Secretary Vilsack and Under Secretary Woteki: We write to request your support for an industry that has been a model of U.S. economic growth over the past decade. The brewing industry sustains millions of jobs in the U.S., and especially through the emerging popularity of craft brewing, has boosted domestic sales and exports, and supports a growing supply chain of U.S. farmers, manufacturers, wholesalers, and retailers. U.S. hop cultivation is central to this industry, and we request USDA’s Agricultural Research Service (ARS) increase its commitment to hop-related research to reflect the growing cultural and economic importance of this crop for FY 2017. Overall, the brewing industry generated more than $250 billion in economic activity in 2014, directly and indirectly employing over 1.75 million Americans. This activity is only sustained through a healthy, stable hop market. Hop growers face a variety of challenges, including mites, mildews, blights, and other pests that harm production. It is estimated that 15 percent of hop yields are lost to pests annually. The increased threat of drought and extreme heat in the Pacific Northwest, where the majority of U.S. commercially-produced hops are grown, is also a persistent threat to crops. The development of new hop varieties that are pest-resistant and climate-tolerant would help growers increase yields while reducing pesticide use. Additionally, while commercial hop production now exists in 29 states, developing new climate-tolerant varieties could help further expand commercial production, putting growers closer to their customers and reducing the threat that a disaster in the Pacific Northwest would affect U.S. and global supplies. USDA’s previous hop research has resulted in the development of varieties that are now universal to the industry. The two largest varieties of U.S.-produced hops, Cascade and Centennial, are products of public hop breeding programs. As consumers continue to demand beers with new aroma and flavor traits, research into developing these characteristics could result in significant benefit to growers, brewers, and the customers they serve. Given these great advantages that would come with additional research, we request that USDA-ARS increase the commitment to hops genetics/molecular biology from 0.7 full time employees (FTE) to 1.0 FTE, while continuing to fund the existing 1.0 FTE pathology research program for FY 2017. This critical boost in research would result in breakthroughs in hop cultivation that will help sustain the significant growth of this important industry. Sincerely,
11.30.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today released the following statement on the release of the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) conference report for consideration in the House: “This bill continues strong provisions to meet the needs of our national defense and our troops,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Additionally, the inclusion of Central Washington priorities in the legislation unveiled today is good news for our community. From including my request for strong levels of Hanford funding, to the inclusion of land provisions at both the Port of Benton and the McNary Shoreline, on which I have worked closely with the local Tri-Cities community, I see this bill as a step forward for Hanford cleanup and local economic development. I am optimistic and will urge final passage as the House considers this legislation.” Rep. Newhouse introduced H.R. 5017, the Port of Benton Restriction Release Act of 2016 this year, which was included in the NDAA to lift the conveyance restrictions on a 71.5 acre parcel of land that was deeded to the Port of Benton in 1996 by the United States Maritime Administration (MARAD). The 2017 NDAA conference report unveiled today also includes language directing the Secretary of the Army to provide a report to the congressional defense committees by March 1, 2017 on the process by which the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers acquired certain properties, such as the McNary Shoreline, along the Columbia River by the Corps. The report will include the specific legal documentation pursuant to which the properties were acquired. The bill text reflects Rep. Newhouse’s McNary Shoreline Army Corps Report amendment. The conference report for NDAA authorizes the level of funding requested by Congressman Newhouse to ensure the federal government meets its obligation at the Hanford Site. The report authorizes funding at $785,311,000, an increase from House-passed level of $769,811,000 for the Richland Operations Office (RL) and $1.4875 billion for the Office of River Protection (ORP). Read the letter Rep. Newhouse sent to the House Armed Services Committee to request that support for Hanford cleanup be made a priority in the NDAA.
11.30.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Derek Kilmer (D-WA) introduced legislation to force the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) to move forward on fixes to its mismanagement issues. Their bill, the VA Management Alignment Act of 2016, would direct the head of the VA to issue a report to Congress detailing the steps they will take to reorganize and effectively improve veterans’ access to quality care. The legislation followed the release of the first in a series of comprehensive studies that uncovered management problems at the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). In the report the Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that following scandals related to manipulated wait times and management failures the VA did not follow through on internal and Congressional recommendations to fix the problems. “Our legislation will help us ensure we can take care of veterans who have sacrificed so much to protect us,” said Kilmer. “After stories and reports about manipulated wait times and mismanagement in our VA system, it became clear systemic reforms were needed. We are calling on the VA to give us a blueprint for how we can best empower the VA and its employees to address systemic management challenges and improve care at the VA to get veterans the services they need.” “Veterans deserve accountability and improved care after facing mismanagement at the VA,” said Newhouse. “I am glad to work with my colleague Rep. Kilmer on this legislation that will require the VA to respond with a framework to address problems on behalf of the men and women who served in uniform.” The bill from Kilmer and Newhouse calls for the VA to deliver their report to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives within 180 days of the act’s passage. The report would spell out the responsibilities for senior staff within the VA and how it is organized. It would also recommend any legislative changes that are needed to create more effective accountability and better ensure that management problems don’t prevent veterans from receiving the care they need. In 2014 news reports came out about patient delays at the Phoenix VA and other facilities across the country. A national audit of the VA was conducted and it was found at the time that the VA Puget Sound hospital had new patients waiting 59 days – on average – for an appointment. Nearly 100,000 veterans use the VA Puget Sound system. Nationally, the audit found that 13 percent of VA schedulers reported that supervisors told them to manipulate appointments to make wait times look shorter. The original GAO report evaluated how well the VHA followed through on recommendations to change management practices from internal and outside reviews of the organization. It also looked at how well a realignment of Veterans Integrated Service Networks (VISN) from 21 to 18 was being carried out. Each VISN oversees all VA facilities and personnel in separate regions of the country. The GAO found: Recommendations not carried out: A number of different recommendations from the internal and outside reviews were given to the VHA central offices to more effectively detail what roles and responsibilities need to be carried out at local and national facilities, better measure how core VHA duties are completed, and the best ways to improve services, planning, and communications throughout the entire system. The GAO found that despite spending more than $68 million on these efforts, the majority of these recommendations were not agreed to or implemented by leadership at the VHA. No guidance on realignment: The GAO discovered that the VHA did not create a plan to guide the reduction of the VISN networks from 21 to 18. Instead, they allowed each to move forward independently without any guidance or direction. That created problems at the regional level as VISN officials tried to figure out on their own how to incorporate new VA facilities of different sizes and patient populations and matching up electronic records correctly.
11.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Paul Gosar (R-AZ), and House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) led 13 Members on a letter to House appropriators, with jurisdiction over federally-owned and operated dams, in support of retaining language to ensure the dams continued operation in any appropriations legislation considered in the final days of the 114th Congress. In both Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 and 2017, the House adopted language to prohibit the use of taxpayer funds to remove any federally-owned or operated dam. During consideration of the FY2016 Energy & Water Development Appropriations Act (H.R. 2028), Representatives Gosar and Newhouse offered an amendment to this effect that was adopted by voice vote. The following year the House Appropriations Committee included this language in the base text of H.R. 5055 in the form of Section 507. Today’s letter was sent to House Committee on Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers (R-TX) and Ranking Member Nita Lowey (D-NY), and House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies Chairman Mike Simpson (R-ID), and Ranking Member Marcy Kaptur (D-OH). The Members wrote: “On October 18, 2016, Department of the Interior Secretary Sally Jewell sent a letter to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) urging the agency to approve the destruction of four dams on the Klamath River in California and Oregon. Sadly, this is not a new position for this administration. In 2009, during the first year of the Obama presidency, the administration ordered the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to conduct studies on the possibility of removing four hydroelectric dams on the Snake River in the State of Washington, which it argued was necessary to ‘save’ salmon populations in the Pacific Northwest. While we share the goal of protecting salmon populations, which are a vital to the economies of many communities that rely on fishing and outdoor recreation, the fact remains that hydropower dams are not adversely impacting endangered fish populations, as billions of dollars in investments by utilities has led to fish-passage success rates near 99%. “In recent years, extremist environmental groups have increased efforts to dismantle and remove federal dams and the Obama administration has often been a willing and supportive partner. These efforts defy commonsense, particularly at a time of major water challenges across the West and with an increasing need for clean, reliable hydropower. Electricity generated from U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Bureau of Reclamation operated dams is utilized by millions of Americans every day and represents the largest source of renewable energy in the country. Many of these dams are essential components for flood control, strategic water storage, and life-sustaining irrigation for millions of acres of American agriculture. Tens of millions of Americans rely on these dams to supply their drinking water and support their livelihoods. The vital water, energy, economic, and ecological benefits provided by federally-owned and operated dams must be protected.” The letter was signed by Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Rep. Paul Gosar (R-AZ), Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT), Rep. Doug LaMalfa (R-CA), Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX), Rep. John Fleming (R-LA), Rep. Tom McClintock (R-CA), Rep. Raul Labrador (R-ID), Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-WI), Rep. Trent Franks (R-AZ), Rep. Scott Tipton (R-CO), Rep. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), and Rep. Steve Pearce (R-NM). The full text of the letter can be found below and HERE. Dear Chairman Rogers, Ranking Member Lowey, Chairman Simpson, and Ranking Member Kaptur: We write in support of retaining language to ensure the continued operation of federally-owned and operated hydroelectric dams and infrastructure in any appropriations legislation considered in the final days of the 114th Congress. In both Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 and 2017, the House adopted language to prohibit the use of taxpayer funds to remove any federally-owned or operated dam. During consideration of the FY2016 Energy & Water Development Appropriations Act (H.R. 2028), Representatives Gosar and Newhouse offered an amendment to this effect that was adopted by voice vote. The following year the House Appropriations Committee included this language in the base text of H.R. 5055 in the form of Section 507. Hydropower is a clean, affordable, and carbon-neutral energy source, one that produces sustainable, renewable, and low-cost energy to power homes, businesses, and cities across the country. Hydroelectric dams also provides numerous additional benefits besides energy production, such as water storage, irrigation, and flood control, as well as conservation, recreation, and navigational benefits. Recent efforts to remove federal hydropower dams and infrastructure is misguided and does not comport with the shared goal of increased domestic energy production that will lead to greater U.S. energy security and independence. Despite almost eight years of unabashed support for renewable energy, and countless policies purportedly intended to promote the development of clean sources of energy, the Obama administration has taken extreme steps to hinder future hydroelectric energy production – and more recently has made clear its intent to destroy existing hydroelectric dams – rather than build new ones. This is extremely troubling, especially given hydropower’s critical role in the U.S. energy portfolio as a reliable, carbon-neutral, and abundant energy source. The administration has continually advocated for increased hydropower production, yet its recent actions betray these public sentiments. In April 2014, the Department of Energy (DOE) announced a new initiative called Hydropower Vision that is intended to “establish the analytical basis for an ambitious roadmap to usher in a new era of growth in sustainable domestic hydropower over the next half century.” Nearly a year later, DOE Secretary Dr. Ernest Moniz discussed the importance of hydropower in a speech to the National Hydropower Association, stating that, “We have to pick up the covers off of this hidden renewable that’s right in front of our eyes and continues to have significant potential.” However reassuring the Administration’s rhetoric may have been, its actions show a starkly different agenda on this issue. On October 18, 2016, Department of the Interior Secretary Sally Jewell sent a letter to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) urging the agency to approve the destruction of four dams on the Klamath River in California and Oregon. Sadly, this is not a new position for this administration. In 2009, during the first year of the Obama presidency, the administration ordered the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to conduct studies on the possibility of removing four hydroelectric dams on the Snake River in the State of Washington, which it argued was necessary to “save” salmon populations in the Pacific Northwest. While we share the goal of protecting salmon populations, which are a vital to the economies of many communities that rely on fishing and outdoor recreation, the fact remains that hydropower dams are not adversely impacting endangered fish populations, as billions of dollars in investments by utilities has led to fish-passage success rates near 99%. In recent years, extremist environmental groups have increased efforts to dismantle and remove federal dams and the Obama administration has often been a willing and supportive partner. These efforts defy commonsense, particularly at a time of major water challenges across the West and with an increasing need for clean, reliable hydropower. Electricity generated from U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Bureau of Reclamation operated dams is utilized by millions of Americans every day and represents the largest source of renewable energy in the country. Many of these dams are essential components for flood control, strategic water storage, and life-sustaining irrigation for millions of acres of American agriculture. Tens of millions of Americans rely on these dams to supply their drinking water and support their livelihoods. The vital water, energy, economic, and ecological benefits provided by federally-owned and operated dams must be protected. We believe that it is imperative that language ensuring the continued operation of federal hydroelectric dams remains a top priority as the House of Representatives considers legislation funding the federal government for the remainder of FY2017. We thank you for your consideration of this request, and for your leadership on the committee. Sincerely,
11.03.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - The National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) announced U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) as a recipient of the NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence. “Manufacturers large and small provide economic growth and good-paying jobs right here in Central Washington,” said Representative Newhouse. “Entrepreneurs need the right tools to compete and sell their products in a global marketplace. I am grateful for this award, and I am proud to support policies that allow our manufacturers to succeed.” “Manufacturing in Washington State and across the country are changing lives for the better—through the jobs we create and the products we make. Manufacturing is about improving the human condition, one innovation at a time,” said NAM President and CEO Jay Timmons. “Rep. Newhouse is helping to make our success possible by standing with manufacturers when it matters and casting the right votes.” “Manufacturers employ over 12 million men and women in the U.S., who are making everything from lifesaving medicines to the most cutting edge technology. The strength of manufacturing in America is responsible for the success of America in the world. When manufacturing succeeds, America succeeds, so Rep. Newhouse’s consistent support for manufacturing means he is supporting a better future for all Americans.” Key Votes included in the Voting Record are selected by small, medium and large manufacturing executives who serve on the NAM’s Key Vote Advisory Committee. Additional information on the NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence can be found here. The National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) is the largest manufacturing association in the United States, representing small and large manufacturers in every industrial sector and in all 50 states. Manufacturing employs more than 12 million men and women, contributes $2.17 trillion to the U.S. economy annually, has the largest economic impact of any major sector and accounts for two-thirds of private-sector research and development. The NAM is the powerful voice of the manufacturing community and the leading advocate for a policy agenda that helps manufacturers compete in the global economy and create jobs across the United States.
11.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) released the following statement in response to the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) report titled “Better Supply Chain Information Could Improve DOT's Freight Efforts.” The GAO report recommended that in developing a freight data strategy, the U.S. Department of Transportation should identify: what supply chain information is needed, potential sources of that information, data gaps, and how it intends to use this information to inform freight efforts. The report also highlights how the Department of Transportation’s (DOT) own draft National Freight Strategic Plan calls for developing similar data. Rep. Newhouse’s amendment creating the Port Performance Program was included in H.R. 22, Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act), which was signed into law in December, 2015, helps to address this need. The amendment required the Bureau of Transportation Statistics (BTS) to collect and report port statistics which will then be published in an annual report by BTS. The Port Performance Working Group will make recommendations to BTS to determine specific port metrics. “Maintaining stable supply chains and preventing another West Coast ports disruption is critical for exporters and consumers in the Pacific Northwest,” the congressmen said. “This watchdog report lays out the challenges facing West Coast port operations and highlights the necessity of the Department of Transportation to develop port performance measures that will be used to improve port operations and freight efforts. Preventing future disruptions at our ports necessitates gathering and maintaining data on ports performance. Clear baseline data is an important step to ensure our ports are working effectively, and we eagerly anticipate progress on upcoming recommendations from the Department.” Background: The Port Performance Program within the FAST Act created the following requirements: The BTS Director must submit a report on port capacity and throughput no later than January 15th of each year; The annual report must cover, at a minimum, the top 25 ports in the nation by tonnage, containers, and dry bulk; The working group members must submit their recommendations to the BTS Director within one year of enactment of the bill. To read the GAO report, click here. For a summary of the Port Performance Program, click here.
11.01.2016	SUNNYSIDE – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) recognized Sunnyside residents Nellie and Frank Jaramillo with the 2016 Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute’s “Angels in Adoption” award. November is National Adoption Month, and Rep. Newhouse honored the Jaramillos for their outstanding advocacy of adoption and foster care issues. “For their commitment as foster parents who have also made the step to open their home by adopting children, Nellie and Frank Jaramillo have been outstanding Angels in Adoption,” said Rep. Newhouse. “We celebrate the Jaramillos, and I am proud to recognize this local family for providing a loving home for children in our community. I hope their story will be an inspiration to other families in Central Washington considering becoming foster or adoptive parents.” Nellie and Frank Jaramillo adopted three siblings on November 20th, 2015. After all four of their biological children left home, Nellie and Frank decided to apply to be foster parents. Nellie had previously dedicated her time to transporting children between their foster homes and their biological parents. She decided she wanted to do more for the children in her community and became a foster parent. Nellie and Frank have fostered many children in the past, and many of them now have children of their own who know Nellie and Frank as simply Grandma and Grandpa. The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI) is a non-profit organization that works to raise awareness about the needs of children without families and to remove policy barriers that hinder children from knowing the love and support a family provides. CCAI’s Angels in Adoption initiative provides an opportunity for Members of Congress to honor an individual or entity from their district which has made an extraordinary contribution on behalf of children in need of homes. CCAI is a 501(c)3 nonpartisan organization dedicated to raising awareness about the tens of thousands of orphans and foster children in the United States and the millions of orphans around the world in need of permanent, safe and loving homes through adoption.
10.31.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On the eve of a meeting between Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) and the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU), Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA), Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Kurt Schrader (D-OR) led a letter urging both parties to continue discussing an extension of their current contract covering operations at the 29 West Coast container ports. Although the current contract does not expire until 2019, the last time the contract expired in 2014 there was no resolution until 2015. The result was a prolonged dispute that led to backups at ports along the West Coast and an estimated $7 billion of impacts to the U.S. economy. “During the 2014-2015 disruption at the 29 West Coast ports, our growers were forced to dump spoiled produce, our manufacturers were delayed waiting for necessary parts, and our retailers were faced with empty shelves. The impact was not simply limited to the West Coast, but was ultimately felt by communities across the country and the larger economy,” wrote the representatives. “We urge you to come to a resolution, so that we can all avoid this same outcome and the repeat of these devastating stories.” The full text of the letter can be found, HERE.
10.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) led a letter joined by Rep. Adrian Smith (R-NE), Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA), Rep. Suzan DelBene (D-WA), and Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL) and 107 other U.S. House members to President Obama urging the administration to maintain agricultural biotechnology as a top priority as the U.S. Trade Representative engages with the People’s Republic of China in a series of trade meetings, including the Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade in November. The Members wrote: “Over the past three years, your administration has successfully secured commitments from Chinese officials to pursue a more normalized trading relationship and improve the approval process for products of agricultural biotechnology. Despite this very promising engagement, we continue to see a disconnect between Chinese commitments and action. For instance, in February, three out of 11 biotech products were approved, but China has issued no approvals since that time. The backlog continues to grow. Currently there are a total of 25 biotech products in the regulatory queue in China, including eight in the final stage. Four of these products have been under review since mid-2011. “We recognize that regulatory reform in China is complex and will require time. However, we are alarmed that recent amendments to China’s biotech regulatory regime effectively provide less clarity and specificity around the approval process, rather than more transparency and accountability. This development appears to run counter to commitments made to the United States, and raises serious questions regarding China's intention to follow through on the spirit of the agreements made in September 2015 and June 2016.” The Members continued in the letter: “The U.S. agricultural value chain is committed to working with the United States and Chinese governments to support these efforts. Delayed approvals that limit access to innovative products and encumber trade only serve to undermine the progress made to date and significantly dampens innovation and trade affecting both the U.S. and Chinese economies.” Full text of the letter can be found below and here. October 28, 2016 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, We appreciate your administration’s continued efforts to engage the People’s Republic of China – a vital U.S. trading partner – on the topic of agricultural innovation and trade. Though some progress has been made, we request that agricultural biotechnology remain a top priority for the United States as we engage the Chinese through a series of meetings this fall, including the Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade (JCCT) in November. Over the past three years, your administration has successfully secured commitments from Chinese officials to pursue a more normalized trading relationship and improve the approval process for products of agricultural biotechnology. Despite this very promising engagement, we continue to see a disconnect between Chinese commitments and action. For instance, in February, three out of 11 biotech products were approved, but China has issued no approvals since that time. The backlog continues to grow. Currently there are a total of 25 biotech products in the regulatory queue in China, including eight in the final stage. Four of these products have been under review since mid-2011. We recognize that regulatory reform in China is complex and will require time. However, we are alarmed that recent amendments to China’s biotech regulatory regime effectively provide less clarity and specificity around the approval process, rather than more transparency and accountability. This development appears to run counter to commitments made to the United States, and raises serious questions regarding China's intention to follow through on the spirit of the agreements made in September 2015 and June 2016. China continues to be a very significant trading partner for U.S. agriculture. In 2015 China purchased $20.3 billion worth of American agricultural products, roughly $10.8 billion, or 54%, of which were biotech-derived plant products. Paving a path forward through continued high-level engagement is essential to facilitate a more positive trade environment and relationship, including for products of agricultural biotechnology. The U.S. agricultural value chain is committed to working with the United States and Chinese governments to support these efforts. Delayed approvals that limit access to innovative products and encumber trade only serve to undermine the progress made to date and significantly dampens innovation and trade affecting both the U.S. and Chinese economies. As your team engages their Chinese counterparts in preparation for the JCCT, we ask that you place added focus on transitioning China’s commitments into positive action. Thank you again for your efforts on behalf of U.S. agriculture and trade. Sincerely, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) Rep. Adrian Smith (R-NE) Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) Rep. Suzan DelBene (D-WA) Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL) Rep. Ralph Abraham, M.D. (R-LA) Rep. Robert Aderholt (R-AL) Rep. Brad Ashford (D-NE) Rep. Dan Benishek, M.D. (R-MI) Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) Rep. Sanford Bishop (D-GA) Rep. Rod Blum (R-IA) Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) Rep. Susan W. Brooks (R-IN) Rep. Julia Brownley (D-CA) Rep. Ken Buck (R-CO) Rep. Larry Bucshon, M.D. (R-IN) Rep. Cheri Bustos (D-IL) Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-AL) Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK) Rep. Chris Collins (R-NY) Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-ND) Rep. Rick Crawford (R-AR) Rep. Scott DesJarlais, M.D. (R-TN) Rep. Daniel M. Donovan, Jr. (R-NY) Rep. Sean Duffy (R-WI) Rep. Renee Ellmers (R-NC) Rep. Tom Emmer (R-MN) Rep. Blake Farenthold (R-TX) Rep. Stephen Fincher (R-TN) Rep. John C. Fleming, M.D. (R-LA) Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) Rep. Bill Foster (D-IL) Rep. Trent Franks (R-AZ) Rep. Bob Gibbs (R-OH) Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) Rep. Paul A. Gosar, D.D.S. (R-AZ) Rep. Sam Graves (R-MO) Rep. Tom Graves (R-GA) Rep. Andy Harris, M.D. (R-MD) Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-MO) Rep. French Hill (R-AR) Rep. George Holding (R-NC) Rep. Richard Hudson (R-NY) Rep. Lynn Jenkins, CPA (R-KS) Rep. Bill Johnson (R-OH) Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA) Rep. Daniel T. Kildee (D-MI) Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) Rep. Steve King (R-IA) Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ) Rep. Raúl R. Labrador (R-ID) Rep. Doug LaMalfa (R-CA) Rep. Robert E. Latta (R-OH) Rep. David Loebsack (D-IA) Rep. Billy Long (R-MO) Rep. Frank Lucas (R-OK) Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO) Rep. Tom Marino (R-PA) Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) Rep. Martha McSally (R-AZ) Rep. Mark Meadows (R-NC) Rep. Patrick Meehan (R-PA) Rep. Luke Messer (R-IN) Rep. John Moolenaar (R-MI) Rep. Randy Neugebauer (R-TX) Rep. Devin Nunes (R-CA) Rep. Kristi Noem (R-SD) Rep. Erik Paulsen (R-MN) Rep. Steve Pearce (R-NM) Rep. Scott Perry (R-PA) Rep. Collin C. Peterson (D-MN) Rep. Mike Pompeo (R-KS) Rep. Tom Reed (R-NY) Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) Rep. Jim Renacci (R-OH) Rep. Reid Ribble (R-WI) Rep. Phil Roe, M.D. (R-TN) Rep. Todd Rokita (R-IN) Rep. Thomas J. Rooney (R-FL) Rep. Peter Roskam (R-IL) Rep. David Rouzer (R-NC) Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-OR) Rep. Austin Scott (R-GA) Rep. David Scott (D-GA) Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr. (R-WI) Rep. Terri Sewell (D-AL) Rep. John Shimkus (R-IL) Rep. Mike Simpson (R-ID) Rep. Kyrsten Simena (D-AZ) Rep. Jason Smith (R-MO) Rep. Steve Stivers (R-OH) Rep. Marlin Stutzman (R-IN) Rep. Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (R-PA) Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-TX) Rep. Pat Tiberi (R-OH) Rep. Scott Tipton (R-CO) Rep. Dave Trott (R-MI) Rep. Michael R. Turner (R-OH) Rep. Fred Upton (R-MI) Rep. Filemon Vela (D-TX) Rep. Ann Wagner (R-MO) Rep. Jackie Walorski (R-IN) Rep. Timothy J. Walz (D-MN) Rep. Randy Weber (R-TX) Rep. Brad Wenstrup (R-OH) Rep. Kevin Yoder (R-KS) Rep. Ted S. Yoho, DVM (R-FL) Rep. David Young (R-IA) Rep. Todd Young (R-IN) Rep. Ryan Zinke (R-MT)
10.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), released the following statement after the amended complaint was filed to the Washington State Public Disclosure Commission regarding violations related to the “What’s Upstream” campaign in Washington state: “I encourage this complaint to be acted upon swiftly in order to determine all the facts on the improper and illegal use of taxpayer funds for the anti-farmer ‘What’s Upstream’ campaign. Those found responsible for any illegal activity should be held accountable to the law.” Last month, Rep. Newhouse led a letter to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Gina McCarthy requesting an update on the agency’s review. EPA Region 10 funded the What’s Upstream website and advocacy campaign that attempts to influence legislators for greater regulation of farmers and ranchers. The letter requests an update on the agency’s progress assembling facts and enacting reforms to ensure appropriated funds are not being used in contravention of the law. In April of this year, Administrator McCarthy acknowledged that the EPA was “distressed by the use of the money and the tone of [the What’s Upstream] campaign” and called for a full review of the use of taxpayer funds for the campaign. The letter sent today was signed by House Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway (R-TX), Rep. Rick Crawford (R-AR), Rep. Bob Gibbs (R-OH), Rep. Collin C. Peterson (D-MN), and Rep. David Scott (D-GA). In April, the EPA admitted that it should not have funded a campaign in Washington State known as What's Upstream, due to that campaign’s brazen lobbying of state legislators in contravention of federal law. The What's Upstream campaign, which was wholly funded by the EPA, used grant awards to fund a website, radio ads, and billboards depicting dead fish and polluted water, urging individuals to contact their state legislators and, “hold the agricultural industry to the same level of responsibility as other industries.” A large, red button on the website labeled, “Take action! We’ve made it simple,” allowed visitors to easily send an email to their state legislators advocating for 100-foot stream buffer zones and other policies. An EPA Inspector General’s report from 2014 had warned that the EPA region responsible for awarding the grant had insufficient protections in place to ensure awardees were not using funds for advocacy, propaganda, and/or lobbying efforts. According to a December, 2015 report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the EPA violated federal lobbying and advocacy laws by funding social media campaigns supporting EPA’s Waters of the United States (WOTUS) Rule.
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed an amendment introduced by Representatives Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Denny Heck (D-WA) that transfers the prehistoric human remains of the Kennewick Man to a coalition of Columbia Basin tribes. The amendment, also cosponsored by Congressman Derek Kilmer (D-WA) and Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR), was adopted as part of H.R. 5303, the Water Resources Development Act of 2016, which was passed on a vote of 399 to 25. The amendment text is similar to legislation previously introduced by Rep. Heck, H.R. 4131, the Bring the Ancient One Home Act. Leaders in the House and Senate will now work to resolve the differences between the House and Senate versions of the Water Resources Development Act. A similar amendment was also included in the Senate version by Senator Patty Murray (D-WA). The House and Senate will then vote on the conference report before the legislation is sent to the President. “20 years after the discovery of the Kennewick Man on the banks of the Columbia River, it is finally time to repatriate the human remains. I am pleased that this bipartisan legislation transfers responsibility of the Kennewick Man from the federal government to Columbia Basin tribes where he belongs.” – Rep. Dan Newhouse “For two decades, the Native peoples of the Columbia River Basin have strived to rebury their ancestor. The action taken by Congress today honors the rights and traditions of these Tribes and returns the Ancient One home.” – Rep. Denny Heck “This is good news for our region. Returning these prehistoric remains to their rightful place is simply common-sense. I’m pleased that the House passed our plan on a bipartisan vote, and that this long process will soon be coming to a conclusion,” – Rep. Greg Walden. “Tribes in Washington state have a right to bring the Ancient One home. I’m glad that the House of Representatives has recognized this and passed our bipartisan legislation to honor the descendants of the Ancient One and clear the path for a proper burial on tribal lands.” – Rep. Derek Kilmer The amendment adopted today transfers the remains from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to the Washington Department of Archaeology and Historic Preservation, in order to repatriate the remains to the claimant tribes through the State Historic Preservation Officer. The coalition of Columbia Basin tribes includes the Confederated Tribes of the Colville Reservation, the Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakama Nation, the Nez Perce Tribe, the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Reservation, and the Wanapum Band of Priest Rapids. You can read the text of the amendment here.
09.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) announced that the Fourth Congressional District will be participating in its second annual Congressional App Challenge (CAC), a national app competition for students: “As last year’s winners demonstrated with their agricultural job finder app, the Congressional App Challenge is a great opportunity for young, tech-savvy people to highlight their creativity while building STEM skills,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I encourage students in Central Washington of all coding experience levels to participate.” The challenge submission period will run through November 2, 2016. Winners will be selected by a panel of local judges and receive a prize tour of Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. The apps will be featured on a video display in the U.S. Capitol building. For more information on the contest rules and requirements, please visit Rep. Newhouse’s official Congressional App Challenge website or contact Matt Pettit, Staff Assistant in Rep. Newhouse’s D.C. office, at Matt.Pettit@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-5816. Last year’s Fourth District App Challenge winners, Cinthia Santiago Villanueva and Esmeralda Lopez, students at Harrison Middle School in Sunnyside, won the challenge with an app they designed called the Agricultural Job Finder. The CAC was created because Congress recognized that Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education skills are essential for economic growth and innovation, and that the U.S. has been falling behind on these fronts. According to the U.S. Department of Commerce, STEM occupations are projected to grow by 17% between 2008 and 2018, compared to 9.8% growth for non-STEM occupations. According to some estimates, the U.S. may be short as many as 3 million high-skilled workers by 2018. To maintain American competitiveness, it is crucial that the U.S. industry invest in our youth now and help them acquire necessary STEM-based skills. The CAC highlights and encourages students to pursue those skills.
09.26.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and House Committee on Veterans Affairs Chairman Jeff Miller (R-FL), released the following statements after legislation Rep. Newhouse introduced, H.R. 3216, the Veterans Emergency Treatment (VET) Act, passed the House today on a voice vote. Rep. Newhouse introduced H.R. 3216 in response to recent incidents of mismanagement and the subsequent mistreatment of veterans, including the case of a 64-year-old Army veteran from Kennewick, who was refused assistance from his car to the emergency room at a Seattle Veterans Administration hospital in February of 2015. “For a veteran who has served our nation to request emergency assistance from the VA, and instead of receiving aid to be hung up on, is unconscionable. Such mistreatment demands legislative reform, and I thank Chairman Miller and my colleagues for supporting this measure to improve emergency care for our veterans.” – Rep. Dan Newhouse “Sometimes it seems VA is almost incapable of operating with common sense, and the department’s maddening mistreatment of veteran Donald Siefken proves it. That’s why I am grateful to Rep. Dan Newhouse for his leadership in offering this important legislation that would clarify and strengthen the VA’s obligation to provide appropriate emergency care for veterans.” – Rep. Jeff Miller, Chairman, House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Highlights of H.R. 3216 The Emergency Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA) was enacted by Congress in 1986 and is designed to prevent hospitals from transferring, or “dumping”, uninsured patients at public hospitals. While a 2007 Veterans Health Administration (VA) directive indicates that the VA complies with the intent of the EMTALA requirements, VA hospitals are considered to be “non-participating” hospitals and are therefore not obligated to fulfill EMTALA requirements. The VET Act would create similar EMTALA requirements for veterans visiting VA hospitals. H.R. 3216 requires: A VA hospital to conduct a medical examination of an enrolled veteran to determine if an emergency medical condition exists If such condition exists, the VA hospital must either stabilize the patient or comply with the statutory requirements of a proper transfer If an emergency medical condition exists and has not been stabilized, the hospital may not transfer the patient unless the patient, after being made aware of the risks, makes a transfer request in writing or a physician certifies that the medical benefits of a transfer outweigh the risks. H.R. 3216 passed the House today as a standalone bill and has been referred to the Senate. Rep. Newhouse’s amendment adopted and included in H.R. 5620, the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act, has identical language and was passed by the House on September 14.
09.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), the nation’s leading advocate for small businesses, has awarded Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) with its biennial Guardian of Small Business Award for his outstanding support of America’s small business owners in the 114th Congress. “As a farmer and small business owner myself, I understand the challenges that come with running small businesses,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Small businesses are the engine of our economy and have created more than half of all new jobs. For Central Washington to thrive, our small businesses need support. I am honored to be named a guardian of the men and women entrepreneurs who wake up every day to run their businesses.” “Many elected officials claim that they are champions of small business, but our Guardian Award shows our members and other small business owners who is really fighting for them,” said NFIB President and CEO Juanita Duggan. “Based on his voting record, Rep. Newhouse is one of the most reliable advocates for small business in Washington.” The Guardian of Small Business is NFIB’s most prestigious award. It is reserved for lawmakers who vote consistently with NFIB on the key issues identified by small business owners. NFIB tracks the votes of every member of Congress. House members and Senators who vote with NFIB members at least 70 percent of the time are eligible for the Guardian Award. Newhouse received a 100 voting record during the 114th Congress.
09.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), led a letter to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Gina McCarthy requesting an update on the agency’s review of the anti-farmer “What’s Upstream” campaign in Washington State. EPA Region 10 funded the What’s Upstream website and advocacy campaign that attempts to influence legislators for greater regulation of farmers and ranchers. The letter requests an update on the agency’s progress assembling facts and enacting reforms to ensure appropriated funds are not being used in contravention of the law. In April of this year, Administrator McCarthy acknowledged that the EPA was “distressed by the use of the money and the tone of [the What’s Upstream] campaign” and called for a full review of the use of taxpayer funds for the campaign. The letter sent today was signed by House Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway (R-TX), Rep. Rick Crawford (R-AR), Rep. Bob Gibbs (R-OH), Rep. Collin C. Peterson (D-MN), and Rep. David Scott (D-GA). The Members wrote in the letter: “In light of the Government Accountability Office’s (GAO) finding that EPA violated the Antideficiency Act and federal appropriations law by promoting the Waters of the Unites States (WOTUS) rule, followed so closely by the revelation of misuse of funds to lobby state legislators through the ‘What’s Upstream’ campaign, we are growing increasingly concerned about EPA’s use of taxpayer dollars. As we await the Office of Inspector General’s (OIG) report on the ‘What’s Upstream’ campaign and discuss the need for and scope of potential legislative reform, an update from EPA on what proactive steps have been taken to address this disturbing trend could help better direct our conversations.” Background: In April, the EPA admitted that it should not have funded a campaign in Washington State known as What's Upstream, due to that campaign’s brazen lobbying of state legislators in contravention of federal law. The What's Upstream campaign, which was wholly funded by the EPA, used grant awards to fund a website, radio ads, and billboards depicting dead fish and polluted water, urging individuals to contact their state legislators and, “hold the agricultural industry to the same level of responsibility as other industries.” A large, red button on the website labeled, “Take action! We’ve made it simple,” allowed visitors to easily send an email to their state legislators advocating for 100-foot stream buffer zones and other policies. An EPA Inspector General’s report from 2014 had warned that the EPA region responsible for awarding the grant had insufficient protections in place to ensure awardees were not using funds for advocacy, propaganda, and/or lobbying efforts. According to a December 2015 report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the EPA violated federal lobbying and advocacy laws by funding social media campaigns supporting EPA’s Waters of the United States (WOTUS) Rule. Last week, Rep. Newhouse voted to pass legislation he joined in introducing with Rep. Tim Walberg (R-MI): H.R. 5226, the Regulatory Integrity Act of 2016, would direct each federal agency to provide transparency into the proposed rule process by requiring agencies to post, in a central location, all the public comments they issue during the proposed rule stage. The bill prohibits agencies from lobbying or campaigning in support of proposed rules and establishes clear standards of what that type of activity would include. To read the full text of the letter to the EPA, click here.
09.14.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), voted in favor of H.R. 5620, the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act, which included an amendment he offered to ensure America’s veterans are guaranteed access to emergency care at all Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) hospitals. Rep. Newhouse’s amendment language is supported by the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the American Legion, and the Disabled American Veterans. H.R. 5620 strengthens whistleblower protections, reforms the VA’s disability benefits appeals process, and provides additional authority to the VA Secretary to reprimand employees for performance or misconduct. “Supporting and caring for our veterans should priority number one for the Veterans Administration, and the cases we have seen – such as the mistreatment of a retired Army veteran from Kennewick – where the VA failed to provide emergency care should never happen again,” said Rep. Newhouse. “My amendment ensures that emergency treatment requirements are consistently applied to VA hospitals so that there is no excuse to furnish the highest standard of care.” WATCH: REP. NEWHOUSE INTRODUCE VETERANS EMERGENCY CARE AMENDMENT Transcript: Thank you, Mr. Speaker: I believe one of the federal government’s most important functions is to support those who have sacrificed so much in the defense of our nation. Whenever our government fails to meet this responsibility, swift action must be taken. We have heard far too many distressing stories in recent years about the Department of Veterans Affairs failing to provide our veterans with the care they deserve. My amendment seeks to address one of these problems by adding the text of H.R. 3216, the Veterans Emergency Treatment Act to this bill. This language is supported by the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the American Legion, and the Disabled American Veterans. In short, my amendment would ensure that every enrolled veteran who arrives at the emergency department of a VA medical facility and indicates an emergency condition exists, is assessed and treated in an effort to prevent further injury or death. This is accomplished by applying the statutory requirements of the Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA) to emergency care furnished by the VA to enrolled veterans. Mr. Speaker, my attention was first drawn to this issue by one of my constituents. In February of 2015, a 64-year-old Army veteran arrived at the Seattle VA emergency room in severe pain with a broken foot that had swollen to the size of a football. No longer able to walk, he requested emergency room staff assist him in traveling the ten feet from his car to the ER entrance. Hospital personnel promptly hung up on him after instructing him that he would need to call 911 to assist him at his own expense. He was eventually helped into the emergency room by a Seattle fire captain as well as three firefighters. Another notable incident occurred in New Mexico in 2014, when a veteran collapsed in the cafeteria of a VA facility and ultimately died when the VA refused to transport him 500 yards across the campus to the emergency room. EMTALA is a federal statute that supersedes state and local laws and grants every individual a federal right to emergency care. It was enacted by Congress in 1986 and is designed to prevent hospitals from transferring, or “dumping”, uninsured or Medicaid patients to public hospitals. EMTALA requires a hospital to conduct a medical examination to determine if an emergency medical condition exists. If one does then the hospital must either stabilize the patient or effectuate a proper transfer at the patient’s request. Currently, VA hospitals are considered to be “non-participating” hospitals and are therefore not obligated to fulfill the requirements instituted by EMTALA. This amendment will revise current law to remove the “non-participating” designation and require them to fulfill requirements of EMTALA, just as every other hospital does. Mr. Speaker, it is actually the Veterans Health Administration’s stated policy that all transfers in and out of VA facilities of patients in the Emergency Department or Urgent Care Units are accomplished in a manner that ensures maximum patient safety and is in compliance with the transfer provisions of EMTALA and its implementing regulations. However, unfortunately this policy is not always followed, and occasionally locally-designed transfer policies at VA facilities undermine efforts to provide emergency care to veterans. Additionally, in some of these instances, there was clear confusion on the part of the VA facilities about their own transfer policies. This is why we must now act now. Mr. Speaker, I urge the House to support and pass my amendment to H.R. 5620. It is time we ensure our veterans receive proper medical care during emergency medical situations – all without requiring additional spending. Background: In June, Rep. Newhouse testified at a House Committee on Veterans Affairs’ hearing on legislation he introduced, H.R. 3216, the Veterans Emergency Treatment (VET) Act. Rep. Newhouse’s legislation would require that every enrolled veteran is afforded the highest level of emergency care at every emergency-capable medical facility under the jurisdiction of the Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA). The VET Act would apply the statutory requirements of the Emergency Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA) to emergency care furnished by the VA to enrolled veterans who arrive at the emergency department of a VA medical facility and indicate an emergency condition exists. The amendment Rep. Newhouse offered to H.R. 5620, the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act, is identical to H.R. 3216. Highlights of Newhouse Amendment to H.R. 5620 The Emergency Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA) was enacted by Congress in 1986 and is designed to prevent hospitals from transferring, or “dumping”, uninsured patients at public hospitals. While a 2007 Veterans Health Administration (VA) directive indicates that the VA complies with the intent of the EMTALA requirements, VA hospitals are considered to be “non-participating” hospitals and are therefore not obligated to fulfill EMTALA requirements. The VET Act would create similar EMTALA requirements for veterans visiting VA hospitals. Rep. Newhouse’s amendment to H.R. 5620 requires: A VA hospital to conduct a medical examination of an enrolled veteran to determine if an emergency medical condition exists If such condition exists, the VA hospital must either stabilize the patient or comply with the statutory requirements of a proper transfer If an emergency medical condition exists and has not been stabilized, the hospital may not transfer the patient unless the patient, after being made aware of the risks, makes a transfer request in writing or a physician certifies that the medical benefits of a transfer outweigh the risks. For the text of Rep. Newhouse’s amendment to H.R. 5620, click here.
09.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), voted to pass legislation he joined in introducing with Rep. Tim Walberg (R-MI): H.R. 5226, the Regulatory Integrity Act of 2016, would direct each federal agency to provide transparency into the proposed rule process by requiring agencies to post, in a central location, all the public comments they issue during the proposed rule stage. The bill prohibits agencies from lobbying or campaigning in support of proposed rules and establishes clear standards of what that type of activity would include. Rep. Newhouse spoke on the House floor in support of the legislation: WATCH REP. NEWHOUSE FLOOR SPEECH ON BILL TO PREVENT RULEMAKING MISCONDUCT Transcript: Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the rule and the underlying legislation, H.R. 5226, the Regulatory Integrity Act….In recent years, a disturbing trend has emerged among federal agencies. In a number of instances, federal agencies have used taxpayer dollars to fund public communication campaigns attempting to lobby for agency regulations. Despite multiple federal laws explicitly prohibiting this, agencies continue to ignore the law and use taxpayer dollars to lobby on the very regulations their agencies are developing. Several months ago in my own home state of Washington, a campaign known as “What’s Upstream” came to light. I’d like to point your attention to this poster. Through this broad and unfair ad campaign, all farmers were demonized as careless polluters. What’s Upstream used billboards, bus and radio ads, and a visually-assaulting website – depicting dead fish and polluted water – to encourage private citizens to contact their state legislators and push for stricter regulations on farmers. It is also important to note that it has been discovered that these images were not even from the state of Washington. As a life-long farmer myself, who has seen first-hand the remarkable, proactive steps farmers have taken to protect our resources, I was insulted by the blatant lies this campaign has spread about farmers. And what’s probably more insulting though can be seen by these pictures of the What’s Upstream website. What’s Upstream encouraged site visitors to send messages to “Washington state senators whose votes we hope to influence” – this is lobbying in the truest sense of the word. But the real kicker is when you scroll down to the bottom of the page to see who it was funded by: “this message has been funded wholly or in part by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.” Now just stop and think about that for just a second – your hard-earned taxpayer dollars are being used by the EPA to lie about farmers, and then to lobby state legislators to put in place stricter regulations against farmers. It’s unconscionable, and it violates the law. Earlier this year, I was proud to co-lead a letter with my friend from Nebraska, Congressman Ashford, to EPA Administrator McCarthy, expressing outrage and demanding an investigation into this campaign. I was honored to have 145 House members – fully one-third of the entire body – join us on that letter demanding accountability. But this campaign exposed to us a very real need for grant and lobbying reform, which H.R. 5226 takes a good first step in bringing. By requiring all Executive agencies to disclose their public communications, it will help bring transparency to agency communications, and ensure that these types of activities cannot hide or go unnoticed. While future steps may be necessary, I was proud to work with Congressman Walberg to introduce this legislation, and I thank him for his leadership on this issue. Our agricultural community and the American taxpayers deserve accountability, and I look forward to continuing to work for this bill’s enactment. Background: In April, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) admitted in news reports that it should not have funded a campaign in Washington State known as What's Upstream, due to that campaign’s brazen lobbying of state legislators in contravention of federal law. The What's Upstream campaign, which was wholly funded by the EPA, used grant awards to fund a website, radio ads, and billboards depicting dead fish and polluted water, urging individuals to contact their state legislators and, “hold the agricultural industry to the same level of responsibility as other industries.” A large, red button on the website labeled, “Take action! We’ve made it simple,” allowed visitors to easily send an email to their state legislators advocating for 100-foot stream buffer zones and other policies. An EPA Inspector General’s report from 2014 had warned that the EPA region responsible for awarding the grant had insufficient protections in place to ensure awardees were not using funds for advocacy, propaganda, and/or lobbying efforts. According to a December, 2015 report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the EPA violated federal lobbying and advocacy laws by funding social media campaigns supporting EPA’s Waters of the United States (WOTUS) Rule. In response, Rep. Newhouse was joined by 144 Members of Congress on a bipartisan letter to the EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy. The Members demanded answers on EPA Region 10’s funding of whatsupstream.com website and advocacy campaign in Washington State that attempts to influence legislators for greater regulation of farmers and ranchers.
09.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The National Tax Limitation Committee (NTLC) has honored Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) with its 114th Congress “Tax Fighter Award.” “I am honored to receive this award for fighting on behalf of taxpayers in Central Washington,” said Rep. Newhouse. “My first act in Congress was to put my support behind the Balanced Budget Amendment and the Tax Code Termination Act. I will continue to work in Congress to rein in fiscal irresponsibility, simplify the tax code, and cut wasteful spending by the federal government.” NTLC President Lewis K. Uhler presented the award to Rep. Newhouse in Washington, D.C., saying, “Representative Newhouse’s votes on tax and spending issues in the 114th Congress earned him an ‘A’ grade and the Tax Fighter Award. “Representative Newhouse has been a leader in the battle on behalf of taxpayers to kill the hated death tax, reduce tax rates and the complexity of the tax code, to provide incentives for private savings, investment and job creation, to control the growth of federal spending and to force Congress to act on major, economic growth-inducing tax reform. “Representative Newhouse has been a major asset to taxpayers all across America during his congressional service. He has had the courage to challenge the orthodoxy of Washington special interests. His leadership is vital to America’s future,” concluded Uhler. Since 1975, the National Tax Limitation Committee, a 501(c)(4) grassroots taxpayer activist organization, has worked to limit taxes and spending and to reduce the size and scope of government at all levels. NTLC has led the national movement for constitutional tax and spending limits at the state and federal levels. NTLC publishes a congressional scorecard at the conclusion of each Congress, as it has for more than a quarter-century.
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), was awarded the coveted Guardian of Seniors' Rights award from the 60 Plus Association because of his commitment to the elderly. “Keeping the promises we make to our senior citizens is one the highest responsibilities of representing Washington’s Fourth Congressional District in Congress,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Preserving Social Security and Medicare and placing our country back on a fiscally responsible track are critical not only for today’s seniors, but for the generations to come.” In a statement released by 60 Plus Association, spokesman and noted American singer Pat Boone remarked, “I’m still singing at concerts, but today I’m singing the praises of Congressman Dan Newhouse. Seniors can depend on Dan.” Boone, 82, and his wife of 61 years, Shirley, reside in California. In an award ceremony in the Nation’s Capital, 60 Plus Chairman Jim Martin said, "we seniors felt we should show our gratitude to dedicated lawmakers like Congressman Newhouse who show compassion towards the elderly by pledging to 1) always protect Medicare, 2) always protect Social Security, and 3) just as importantly, to vote against wasteful spending of our tax dollars, excessive spending that has our government now borrowing over 40 cents of every dollar it needs to pay its bills. Seniors have to balance their budgets and so should our government. "While both programs are running deficits, seniors are not to blame," Martin emphasized. "After all, we seniors have paid into both all our working lives. We've paid our dues but seniors know why deficits face both Medicare and Social Security. For example, Congress raids the annual surpluses from Social Security to pay for other government programs, leaving nothing but trillions of dollars of IOUs. "On behalf of 7.2 million seniors that 60 Plus looks to for support, seniors know you’re in our corner. You have earned our respect and our appreciation. 60 Plus thanks you." The 60 Plus Association is a 24-year-old nonpartisan organization working for death tax repeal, saving Social Security and Medicare, affordable prescription drugs, lowering energy costs and other issues featuring a less government, less taxes approach as well as a strict adherence to the Constitution. 60 Plus calls on support from over 7 million activists. 60 Plus has been called, “an increasingly influential senior citizen’s group.”
08.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) marked the 100th anniversary of the U.S. National Park Service by releasing a video message inviting families to “Find Your Park,” highlighting the Manhattan Project National Historical Park in Washington’s Fourth Congressional District: REP. NEWHOUSE INVITES WASHINGTONIANS TO MANHATTAN PROJECT NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK
08.11.2016	SUNNYSIDE, WA – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) joined five U.S. Senators and 16 U.S. House members from the Pacific Northwest to send a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry today, urging the U.S. Department of State to hasten its progress towards negotiations to modernize the Columbia River Treaty. The State Department has stated that it intended to start negotiations in 2016. However, despite multiple letters from Congress urging it to move forward immediately, and despite receiving Regional Recommendations almost three years ago, the State Department has failed to take necessary steps to begin the long overdue process in the first seven months of 2016. “Treaty modernization and negotiations with Canada directly affect the economy, environment, and flood control needs of communities we represent,” the members wrote. “The U.S. Department of state [must] conclude the review process, approve the Circular 175 immediately, and press Canada to appoint a lead negotiator and engage in negotiations.” The legislators have again called on the State Department to finalize its negotiating parameters and to press Canada to appoint a lead negotiator. Both actions are required for talks to begin. The agency has insisted for months that its negotiating parameters document, known as Circular 175, was nearly complete. There have been no indications, however, that the State Department is close to approving the document. Updating the treaty, which has not been revised since it was ratified in 1964, will allow the U.S. and Canada to find new win-win solutions for management of the river that could provide new opportunities for cooperation on critical clean energy solutions such as smart grids with intermittent power, grid-scale storage, and clean infrastructure solutions. Such projects would drive new economic growth in both the U.S. and Canada. The members of Congress support the U.S. negotiating position based on regional recommendations to modernize the Treaty, balancing ecosystem function including salmon recovery, flood control, and hydropower generation. Members of Congress signing the letter included Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Patty Murray (D-WA), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), and Jon Tester (D-MT), and Representatives Adam Smith (WA-09), Denny Heck (WA-10), Jim McDermott (WA-07), Cathy McMorris-Rodgers (WA-05), Jaime Herrera-Beutler (WA-03), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Dave Reichert (WA-08), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Rick Larsen (WA-02), Peter De Fazio (OR-04), Kurt Schrader (OR-05), Walden (OR-02), Ryan Zinke (MT-At Large), and Mike Simpson (ID-02). Full text of the letter can be found here.
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House approved H.R. 5538, the Fiscal Year 2017 Department of Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. This legislation provides annual funding for the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the U.S. Forest Service, the Indian Health Service, and various independent and related agencies. The measure reduces overall funding in the bill by $64 million below the FY 2016 level and $1 billion below the President’s request. Additionally, this legislation prohibits funding for implementation of the Waters of the United States Rule, cuts the Endangered Species Act listing budget by 23%, provides flexibility for states to implement new ozone standards, and funds critical wildfire mitigation, suppression, and response activities to address the threat posed by catastrophic wildfires. “I applaud House approval of this fiscally-responsible legislation to stop federal regulatory overreach while providing for critical priorities for rural communities across the country and in Central Washington,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This legislation reins in the EPA by reducing overall funding, holds EPA to the lowest staffing level since 1989, and blocks spending on egregious federal rules such as WOTUS. I am pleased that my amendments were included to require the EPA to adhere to the law’s intended scope rather than expanding regulations to target farmers, to minimize livestock-losses from wolf predation, and to encourage federal agencies to move forward with rules to delist the gray wolf. My amendment with my colleague, Rep. Crawford, also reiterates the ban on lobbying by federal agencies in light of the recent violations related to What’s Upstream. Finally, this legislation provides necessary resources to fully fund wildfire suppression and hazardous fuels management as well as support for communities surrounded by federal lands.” H.R. 5538 includes four amendments offered by Rep. Newhouse: To prevent the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from expanding regulations under the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 to target farmers, livestock producers, and dairies. The amendment would prohibit funding for the EPA to issue new regulations under the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.) that apply to animal feeding operations. Agriculture is currently exempt from this law, and this amendment ensures the Agency does not circumvent Congress’s will. To restore funding for the “Wolf Livestock Loss Demonstration Program,” which assists livestock producers in undertaking proactive, non-lethal activities to reduce the risk of livestock loss from predation by wolves, and addresses livestock losses caused by wolves. To prohibit the U.S. Department of Interior and U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service from using any funds to continue treating the gray wolf under the Endangered Species Act after June 13, 2017. The amendment does not delist the gray wolf but encourages U.S. Fish & Wildlife to move forward with its own proposed delisting rule. An amendment offered by Rep. Newhouse and Rep. Rick Crawford (R-AR) to address the recent EPA-funded, anti-agriculture “What’s Upstream” lobbying campaign in Washington state. The amendment reiterates current law by prohibiting funds from being used in support of grassroots advocacy campaigns whose efforts are intended to persuade the outcomes of legislation in either Congress or other official in federal or state governments. Newhouse initiatives contained in the underlying bill: Rep. Newhouse added language to the overall bill urging the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service to finalize its proposal to delist recovered gray wolves range-wide, which is included on page 16 of the report. Rep. Newhouse requested funding for hazardous fuels management be prioritized to promote forest management and reduce the risk of forest fires. The overall bill includes $575 million for the program, which is $30 million above the Fiscal Year 2016 level. WATCH Rep. Newhouse’s floor statement on the legislation here Transcript: Mr. Speaker, during consideration of this resolution all time yielded is for the purpose of debate only. I yield the customary 30 minutes to the lady from New York, Ms. Slaughter, pending which I yield myself such time as I may consume. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all members have five legislative days to revise and extend their remarks. On Monday the Rules Committee met and reported a rule, House Resolution 820, providing for consideration of an important piece of legislation: H.R. 5538, the Fiscal Year 2017 Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. The rule provides for consideration of H.R. 5538 under a structured rule, which is a standard tool currently available under the rules of the House and previously used by Republicans and Democrats alike for consideration of appropriations bills. However, the Rules Committee received 178 amendments to this bill and undertook a long, arduous, and very open process to make as many of the amendments in order as possible. While 10 were withdrawn, out of the remaining 168 amendments, the Committee made 131 in order – almost equally divided among Republicans and Democrats – ensuring both sides of the aisle have the opportunity to offer their amendments and provide their input on this very important measure. Mr. Speaker, the bill appropriates funding for the Department of the Interior, the EPA, the U.S. Forest Service, the Indian Health Service, and various independent and related agencies. This is a fiscally-responsible measure that appropriates $32.095 billion in discretionary spending – which is a $64 million decrease from Fiscal Year 2016 and a $1 billion reduction from the President’s request. While this bill respects our country’s current fiscal situation – where our national debt is approaching $20 trillion – it provides the means necessary to fund the Department of Interior and environmental programs that protect and promote our natural resources within a responsible, yet sustainable budget. The legislation includes funding for many important priorities, such as the PILT program that provides funds for local governments in 49 states to help offset losses in property taxes due to non-taxable federal lands within their counties. Without congressional action, many rural communities would face huge budget shortfalls because of federal land ownership, which would impact public safety, education, and other local government responsibilities. The bill also rejects a White House proposal that would have raised fees on American ranchers for grazing on federal lands – which is another costly federal proposal that ranchers simply cannot afford. It allocates an increase for on-the-ground sage grouse conservation to protect the species, while also preserving federal lands for public and private uses, such as energy development, ranching, recreation, as well as military training. Finally, it provides the National Park Service with targeted funding increases for park operations and maintenance to help reduce the Park Service’s maintenance backlog, which currently stands at an astonishing $12 billion and we simply must address. Mr. Speaker, H.R. 5538 also includes conservative policy provisions to stop the bureaucratic regulatory overreach that is harming the United States. Job creation and wage growth continue to be stifled by EPA and other federal regulations – and in response this bill denies funding for job-killing rules and contains provisions to stop the regulatory overreach that is restricting economic activity. Specifically, the bill reduces funding for the EPA by $164 million below the Fiscal Year 2016 level and $294 million below the President’s request. Within this total, EPA’s regulatory programs are reduced by $43 million from the current level. Additionally, it rejects the President’s proposal to increase staffing at the EPA and holds the Agency to the current capacity of 15,000 positions – which is the lowest level since 1989. Over the past few years we have heard time and again about the EPA overstepping its authority – whether by lobbying for the misguided and unconstitutional WOTUS rule, or by providing funds to groups that openly advocate and lobby for anti-agriculture policies and legislation, which happened in my state of Washington with the illegal “What’s Upstream” campaign. To hold the EPA accountable and stop its’ anti-growth agenda of numerous harmful, costly, and potentially job-killing regulations, the bill contains a number of legislative provisions to halt these actions. Mr. Speaker, this legislation also includes language prohibiting the Forest Service or the BLM from issuing new closures of public lands to hunting and recreational shooting, which will preserve public access so that everyone can enjoy these American pastimes on our treasured federal lands and national forests. Further, the measure prevents the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service from closing fish hatcheries – a key salmon recovery tool in the Pacific Northwest and in other parts of the country – and continues a one-year delay on any further Endangered Species Act status reviews, determinations, and rulemaking for the greater sage-grouse. Additionally, H.R. 5538 provides critical funding for the Department of the Interior and the U.S. Forest Service to prevent and combat devastating wildfires. This is particularly important to me and the people of Washington State and Washington’s Fourth District. My state and much of the West have experienced catastrophic wildfire seasons over the last two years, with the state of Washington enduring back-to-back years of record-setting fires, which have been fueled by not only a lack of rainfall and extremely arid conditions, but also poor forest management. It also includes $575 million for hazardous fuels management, which is $30 million above the Fiscal Year 2016 level, and will help ensure our forests are cleared, healthy, and better prepared to withstand future wildfires – something that is badly needed, not only in Central Washington, but across the west as we head into another dry fire season. Mr. Speaker, this is a good rule that provides for consideration of the FY2017 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill, which promotes the responsible use of our natural resources, provides the tools necessary to protect against and combat devastating wildfires, and invests in programs and infrastructure to improve the quality of life for families across the country. However, most importantly, this is fiscally-responsible bill that reflects the priorities of House Republicans in tackling our yearly deficits and out-of-control national debt. I think it strikes a smart balance, an intentional balance between funding essential programs and making responsible reductions to lower-priority activities to make sure we meet our tight-budget guidelines, which is why I urge my colleagues to support the rule and the underlying bill. And I reserve the balance of my time.
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House approved biotechnology legislation, the Motion to Concur in the Senate amendment to the House amendment to S. 764: “It is critical for Congress to offer this solution to the damaging and unworkable consequences of a potential patchwork of state labeling laws that would otherwise vary state by state and market by market,” said Rep. Newhouse. “There is an overwhelming scientific consensus that biotechnology is safe and benefits food production in a hungry world, but this legislation will take important steps for creating a standard to provide consumers with meaningful information they want about the foods they choose for their families.” Click here to watch Rep. Newhouse’s floor speech in favor of the legislation Transcript: I want to thank the gentleman for yielding. Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I rise today to offer my support for S. 764, the Senate-passed biotechnology labeling legislation that we are considering today. Without enactment of this legislation today, right now, we will continue to see the emergence of an incompatible patchwork of state laws, like the one that took effect in Vermont just two weeks ago. As a farmer myself, I can tell you with some authority that if these state laws – with their conflicting definitions and labeling requirements – are allowed to take effect, it will increase the cost of production and compliance for farmers as well as food producers. This in turn will drive up grocery bills for American families by hundreds, even thousands of dollars. That, Mr. Speaker, I believe unacceptable and unconscionable of an outcome to inflict on the American people. To be clear, I don’t think this bill is perfect – it’s far from it. It’s filled with ambiguous statements, and in many places offers little guidance to USDA on how to best implement the bill’s provisions. I’m also disappointed the Senate waited until the very last moment, imposing this crisis on the House, leaving us with only two options: either act on an imperfect bill or let the American people suffer. Mr. Speaker, let the record reflect that the House did its job, passed a biotech labeling bill for the Senate’s consideration an entire year ago. Generally, when we are talking about labeling for food, it’s for health and safety purposes. I believe people have a right to know what it is they are eating, but today we find ourselves in a place to require mandatory labeling for agricultural products that are 100% safe. With my reservations noted, passing this bill is the right thing to do. It will establish a meaningful national standard for biotech labeling that will prevent an unworkable patchwork of conflicting state laws. It will provide consumers with information they want. And finally, it will create an environment where farmers, researchers can continue to do their work and develop new varieties of foods that are healthier, more abundant, more pest and disease resistant – and allow us to continue to feed our nation and the world, and I urge my colleagues to support its passage.
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after introducing H.R. 5685, the Farm Regulatory Certainty Act to clarify congressional intent regarding the inappropriate application of regulations under the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA) to agricultural nutrient management. Rep. Newhouse was joined by original cosponsors Rep. Brad Ashford (D-NE), Rep. Sanford Bishop (D-GA), Rep. Chris Collins (R-NY), Rep. Michael Conaway (R-TX), Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA), Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Rep. Henry Cuellar, Ph.D. (D-TX), Rep. Raúl R. Labrador (R-ID), Rep. Devin Nunes (R-CA), Rep. Collin C. Peterson (D-MN), Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Rep. Mike Simpson (R-ID), Rep. David G. Valadao (R-CA), Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR), and Rep. Filemon Vela (D-TX). “As a farmer myself, I know how seriously farmers take our responsibility to be good stewards,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The goal of environmental rules should be to assist agriculture producers to improve nutrient management and reduce their environmental footprint, not subject them to lawsuits and put them out of business. It is unfair for agricultural nutrients to be exempt from a law, then have a court find farmers at fault for non-compliance with the law. Farmers need certainty to what rules apply to them. Complying with appropriate federal regulations should never be a guessing game that results in increased liability, especially when many farmers are taking proactive, voluntary steps to manage land and water quality. I am introducing this legislation in order to clarify which federal rules apply to farmers, livestock producers, and dairies, and to clarify and to reassert Congress’ legislative intent regarding nutrient management practices.” The Farm Regulatory Certainty Act would: Reaffirm and clarify congressional intent regarding the inappropriateness of subjecting agricultural byproducts to RCRA. Codify the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) regulations regarding the treatment of agricultural byproducts under RCRA. Prevent farmers who are already engaged in legal action or are making a diligent attempt to work with the state or federal government to address nutrient management issues from being targeted by citizen suits. The Farm Regulatory Certainty Act would not: Prevent the EPA from enforcing current regulations under the Safe Water Drinking Act, the Clean Water Act, or any other applicable law. Exempt livestock producers from any laws or regulations intended to govern agricultural operations. Background: In January 2015, a federal judge in Spokane, Washington sided with environmental activists who brought a lawsuit against several dairies in the State of Washington under the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA) for what they claimed was the inappropriate storage and handling of animal manure. However, RCRA was intended to govern landfills and to prevent the opening dumping of “solid wastes”. The EPA’s own preexisting RCRA regulations from 1979 acknowledge that RCRA does “not apply to agricultural waste, including manure and crop residue, returned to the soil as fertilizers or soil conditioners.” [40 CFR 257.1(c)(1)] The novel interpretation of the law stretches definitions to describe manure nitrates as a “solid waste” in order to hold livestock producers liable. Such an interpretation opens up the nation’s agricultural producers who use or store manure or other fertilizers to an additional, expansive, unintended layer of federal regulation under RCRA. For the complete text of the legislation, click here.
07.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Reps. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Dave Reichert (R-WA) led seven Washington Members of Congress in a letter to House of Representatives conferees charged with the development of comprehensive energy legislation to request inclusion of the Yakima River Basin Integrated Water Management Plan as adopted in S. 2012, the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act of 2016. The letter was sent to House Committee on Energy and Commerce Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), Ranking Member Frank Pallone (D-NJ), and House Committee on Natural Resources Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) and Ranking Member Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ) as well as all House-appointed conferees to the House-Senate Energy Conference Committee. The Members wrote in the letter: “The Yakima River Basin is one of the leading agricultural regions in Washington State and throughout the country, a large portion of which is world class, high-value fruit orchards, vineyards, and hop plantings. The orchardists, wine grape and hop growers, and other members of the agricultural community inject approximately $3.2 billion into Washington’s economy and support countless jobs in the area. However, the demand for water in the region often exceeds the resources available, especially during times of drought, which have hit the state especially hard the past few years. As a result, water use has been severely restricted, with current water supply and infrastructure unable to meet existing human and environmental needs.” The Members continued: “With researchers predicting that drought seasons will only become more common and get worse as snowpack in the mountains continues to decline, action needs to be taken so that stakeholders in the Yakima River Basin can continue operating without having to worry about whether or not they will be able to water their crops or support key commercial and municipal activities. As the nation has witnessed extreme water problems in California, we must be proactive and have a viable plan in place should intense drought persist in Washington State. The Yakima River Basin Integrated Plan offers a solution that will give water users more certainty, while also recognizing the concerns of conservationists and the various stakeholders in the Yakima River Basin.” The Members continued: “Therefore, we respectfully request that language of the Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project Phase III Act is retained as you work to resolve differences between the House and Senate versions of comprehensive energy legislation. In our view, it is imperative that the water needs of the Yakima River Basin be resolved before it is too late. Thank you for your consideration of this important request.” Reps. Reichert and Newhouse introduced H.R. 4686, the Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project Phase III Act in March to authorize a key phase of the Yakima River Basin Integrated Water Resource Management Plan. The full text of the letter is included below. July 7, 2016 Dear House Conferees: As you work to develop final comprehensive energy legislation, we respectfully request that you include language adopted as part of S. 2012, the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act of 2016, to authorize the next critical phase of the Yakima River Basin Integrated Water Resources Management Plan. The future economic health of Central Washington is dependent upon improving our water infrastructure and supply to support growing communities as well as agricultural, conservation, and commercial needs – this is of the utmost importance to our constituents and regional economy. The Yakima River Basin is one of the leading agricultural regions in Washington State and throughout the country, a large portion of which is world class, high-value fruit orchards, vineyards, and hop plantings. The orchardists, wine grape and hop growers, and other members of the agricultural community inject approximately $3.2 billion into Washington’s economy and support countless jobs in the area. However, the demand for water in the region often exceeds the resources available, especially during times of drought, which have hit the state especially hard the past few years. As a result, water use has been severely restricted, with current water supply and infrastructure unable to meet existing human and environmental needs. With researchers predicting that drought seasons will only become more common and get worse as snowpack in the mountains continues to decline, action needs to be taken so that stakeholders in the Yakima River Basin can continue operating without having to worry about whether or not they will be able to water their crops or support key commercial and municipal activities. As the nation has witnessed extreme water problems in California, we must be proactive and have a viable plan in place should intense drought persist in Washington State. The Yakima River Basin Integrated Plan offers a solution that will give water users more certainty, while also recognizing the concerns of conservationists and the various stakeholders in the Yakima River Basin. The Yakima River Basin Integrated Plan was developed by a diverse group of stakeholders from the region, including farmers and ranchers; irrigation districts; county and city governments; tribes; conservation organizations; and state and federal agencies. The Plan will protect, mitigate and enhance fish and wildlife habitat; provide increased operational flexibility to manage instream flows to meet ecological objectives; and improve the reliability of the water supply in the Yakima River Basin for irrigation, municipal supply, and domestic uses. These objectives are met through the Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project Phase III Act (H.R. 4686 and S. 1694), which was unanimously passed by the Senate and subsequently included in S. 2012. From farming and ranching, to manufacturing and municipal uses, to recreation and wildfire response, a reliable supply of water is an indispensable resource in the West. This plan is a balanced approach which provides greater water supply reliability for farmers and communities, and implements water marketing and banking so that in the future water is more easily delivered when and where it is needed. After years of negotiations and planning, the Integrated Plan offers a solution that will give water users more certainty, while also improving ecological integrity, creating jobs, and strengthening the Yakima River Basin economy for generations to come. Therefore, we respectfully request that language of the Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement Project Phase III Act is retained as you work to resolve differences between the House and Senate versions of comprehensive energy legislation. In our view, it is imperative that the water needs of the Yakima River Basin be resolved before it is too late. Thank you for your consideration of this important request. Sincerely,
06.24.2016	YAKIMA – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on the passing of James L. Boyd, chairman of the Colville Tribes: "Jim’s voice will live on through his music. He will be remembered for his many contributions to the arts, and he was also a respected leader and effective advocate on behalf of the community he served. I extend my condolences to his wife Shelly and his entire family.”
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) issued the following statement on the Supreme Court’s 4-4 decision in United States vs. Texas: “The Supreme Court’s decision reflects the separation of powers principle in our Constitution that Congress writes the laws, and the President enforces those laws,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The Supreme Court has spoken but today's decision does not resolve the issue. The American people expect Congress to work together to secure our borders, adhere to the rule of law, offer a humane solution to those living in the shadows, modernize our visa system, and bolster the economy. I am committed to fixing our broken immigration system once and for all.”
06.17.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) honored Christian Pugh of Ephrata, one of 325 national recipients of the Congressional Award Gold Medal – Congress’ highest award for youth, at an award ceremony on Capitol Hill yesterday. The annual event recognizes young people that have dedicated hundreds of hours of service to their communities. “I congratulate Christian Pugh on earning this Congressional Award Gold Medal,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Christian has proven to be a diligent young leader in his community, demonstrating the value of serving others and achieving excellence in his personal goals. Christian is an example of good citizenship – especially for his peers – I know that this young man has a bright future.” Christian Pugh of Ephrata, WA, is an Eagle Scout and earned the Congressional Award Gold Medal for his community service working as a Boy Scout camp counselor and working as a youth leader and mentor to a group of Cub Scouts. Christian set goals for personal development by earning merit badges. Christian competes in high school cross country and tennis, and he has earned Scout merit badges for physical fitness. He met his exploration goal by leading his Boy Scout troop on a 50-mile expedition through Olympic National Park. Of 325 Gold Medalists nationwide in 2016, 8 are from Washington state. Since its inception in 1979, the Congressional Gold Medal Award has recognized thousands of young Americans committed to serving their country and improving themselves, representing over 7.5 million hours of public service. Currently over 48,000 students from all 50 states are actively working toward earning a Congressional Award. Earning The Congressional Award Gold Medal requires a significant commitment. Each participant must spend two years or more completing at least 400 hours of community service, 200 hours of both personal development and physical fitness activities, and a four-night Expedition or Exploration. For this achievement, Gold Medalists are recognized at the Capitol by their Member of Congress with the presentation of the Congressional Award Gold Medal, which is struck by the United States Mint.
06.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) was honored with the Horst G. Denk Legislative Service Award by the Independent Bakers Association (IBA) during its annual membership meeting for supporting key issues related to the baking and food industry. “I am honored to receive the Horst G. Denk Legislative Service Award,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Since a mandatory GMO labeling ballot initiative was first proposed and defeated in Washington in 2011, I have been very concerned with the additional cost it would impose on businesses and consumers alike. An unworkable patchwork of state and local laws will make it impossible for bakers and grocers to logistically comply with every requirement. I have also been proud to support the inclusion of access to fortified breads and grains in the Dietary Guidelines and corn masa flour, which is so important to ensuring families – particularly children and expectant mothers – are getting the nutrients they need. I have always been and will continue to be an advocate for protecting our nation’s bakers from the onslaught of unnecessary, costly, and burdensome regulation. I look forward to continuing to be an advocate to protect businesses, employees, and customers.” “With the presentation of our Horst G. Denk Legislative Service Award, IBA is recognizing the Congressman for his continued support of pro-manufacturing legislation,” said IBA President Nicholas A. Pyle. “When he was the Director of Agriculture in Washington, we were impressed by him when he was an outspoken opponent of mandatory GMO-labeling. Now on Capitol Hill, we recognize his further support of a voluntary system as demonstrated in his vote last summer for legislation sponsored by Congressman Mike Pompeo of Kansas. We thank him for these efforts and hope to continue to foster a great relationship with him on these and other food industry issues.” The award is given annually to two members of Congress based on support for key issues in the baking and food industry. It is named after Horst G. Denk, who served as IBA chairman during the early 1980s and helped the IBA expand its legislative involvement to help get the voice of the baker heard on issues at state and federal levels.
06.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on the formation of the Port Performance Working Group. The Port Performance Working Group was created after an amendment that was offered by Rep. Newhouse and Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-OR) to H.R. 22, Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act), was signed into law in December, 2015. Rep. Newhouse and Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-OR) included the Port Performance Program within the FAST Act to require the Bureau of Transportation Statistics (BTS) to collect and report port statistics which will then be published in an annual report by BTS. The Port Performance Working Group will make recommendations to BTS to determine specific port metrics. The working group includes government officials and representatives from labor and industry, with the final decision on metrics resting with the BTS Director. “Improving port metrics by requiring objective baseline economic information is critical for an accurate picture of port operations and to prevent another disastrous port slowdown,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The selection of these diverse members from a range of port users and relevant agencies to the Port Performance Working Group as required by the FAST Act is an important step of progress toward providing much-needed port statistics. I was pleased to lead this effort, and I will continue to work to ensure our ports are working effectively. ” Port Performance Freight Statistics Working Group Members: David Adams, U.S. Maritime Alliance, Ltd. Jonathan, Berkson U.S. Coast Guard Lauren Brand, Maritime Administration Kevin Brubaker, Environmental Law and Policy Center Dennis Daggett, International Longshoremen's Association Rick Gabrielson, Lowe’s Companies, Inc. Manuel Garza, U.S. Customs and Border Protection John Giorgis, Federal Transit Administration John Gray, Association of American Railroads Roger Guenther, Port of Houston, TX Randy Iwasaki, Contra Costa (CA) Transportation Authority Paul C. LaMarre, III, Port of Monroe, MI Michael Lestingi, Federal Railroad Administration Michelle Livingstone, Home Depot Luis Loarte, Federal Aviation Administration Andrew Lynn, Port Authority of New York and New Jersey Mike Mabry, Lowe’s Companies, Inc. (Retired) Don Marcus, International Organization of Masters, Mates and Pilots, ILA/AFL-CIO Ned Mitchell, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Jeffrey Pavlak, Transportation Trades Department, AFL-CIO Michael Podue, International Longshore and Warehouse Union Fred Potter, International Brotherhood of Teamsters Caitlin Rayman, Federal Highway Administration Darrell Ruban, Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration Eugene Seroka, Port of Los Angeles, CA Mindy Shalaby, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration Thomas Wakeman, III, Stevens Institute of Technology Curtis Whalen, American Trucking Associations Bill Wiatrowski, Bureau of Labor Statistics Dennis Wilmsmeyer, America’s Central Port (Granite City, IL) Tyler Wood, Federal Maritime Commission Rebecca Yackley, Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation Allison Yoh, Port of Long Beach, CA Background: The Port Performance Program within the FAST Act created the following requirements: The BTS Director must submit a report on port capacity and throughput no later than January 15th of each year; The annual report must cover, at a minimum, the top 25 ports in the nation by tonnage, containers, and dry bulk; The working group members must submit their recommendations to the BTS Director within one year of enactment of the bill. For a summary of the Port Performance Program, click here.
06.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 5053, the Preventing IRS Abuse and Protecting Free Speech Act, which was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives. Rep. Newhouse cosponsored this legislation to eliminate the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) Schedule B form—a portion of Form 990, the annual return that most non-profits are required to file. This form requires non-profit groups to report the names of anyone who contributes more than $5,000. “Three years after we learned that the IRS was unfairly targeting conservative nonprofits, the IRS has deservedly lost trust of Americans for misusing its authority to suppress political speech,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I was proud to cosponsor this legislation to protect First Amendment rights regardless of anyone’s political beliefs by preventing the IRS from forcing private nonprofits to submit the names and personal information of supporters. This legislation would prevent the IRS from improperly disclosing the political beliefs of Americans who exercise their right to contribute to private nonprofits of their choice.” Background: Tax-exempt, non-profit organizations are currently required to file Form 990 Schedule B that lists donors of more than $5,000 in the previous calendar year. Although federal law prohibits the IRS from releasing Schedule Bs, in the past this information has been exploited to target conservatives. Ahead of the 2012 presidential election, the IRS improperly released the National Organization of Marriage’s (NOM) unredacted Schedule B form, which revealed a contribution from a pro-Mitt Romney group. The IRS was eventually ordered to pay NOM $50,000 in damages for releasing this confidential information. IRS Commissioner John Koskinen has said this information is completely irrelevant to an organization’s tax-exempt status and that the IRS is already considering getting rid of the Schedule B. The commissioner told the Senate in July 2015: “On your 990 you list donors—although we’re about to try to change that. As a general matter, who gives to you should not matter as to what you’re about to do.” Click here for a summary of H.R. 5053.
06.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today announced five students from the Fourth Congressional District who received appointments U.S. Service Academies. The students received nominations from Rep. Newhouse last year and have been selected to attend the nation’s most prestigious military academies, including the Military Academy at West Point, the Air Force Academy, and the Naval Academy. Rep. Newhouse released the following statement: “I congratulate all of these students from Central Washington who have received appointments to Service Academies and have taken up the call to serve in our nation’s Armed Forces,” said Rep. Newhouse. “They each stand out for their academic and athletic excellence, their leadership potential, and their dedication to wear the uniform of the United States military. I was honored to nominate these future leaders, and I am proud that these young people will represent the very best of Central Washington in our nation’s Service Academies.” The following students nominated by Rep. Newhouse received appointments to attend Service Academies: U.S. Military Academy at West Point Name: Charles Clay Landefeld, son of John and Jodi Landefeld Hometown: Kennewick High School: Southridge High School U.S. Air Force Academy Name: Joseph “Dane” Gurnard, son of Joseph and Tami Gurnard Hometown: East Wenatchee High School: Eastmont High School Name: Austin Jacob Dreyer, son of Christopher and Pam Dreyer Hometown: West Richland High School: Hanford High School U.S. Naval Academy Name: Seth Riley King, son of Dale and Mary King Hometown: Pasco High School: Hanford High School Name: Robert Julian Leam, son of Julian and Elaine Leam Hometown: Richland High School: Richland High School (Graduated in 2012) For more information on military academy nomination requirements and 2016 application deadlines, please click here.
06.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Reps. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Sanford Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), and Elise Stefanik (R-NY) led 98 other Members in a letter to U.S. Labor Secretary Thomas Perez and Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services León Rodriguez regarding the administrative breakdown in the timely processing of H-2A agricultural worker program applications and visa petitions. The administrative breakdown is impacting the ability of American ranchers and growers to hire legal seasonal workers in time for planting and harvest, and the Members urge DOL and USCIS to adhere to regulatory requirements to process program applications efficiently and expeditiously: The Members wrote in the letter: “As the instability in the labor force grows, so does the use of the H-2A seasonal temporary worker program. While we acknowledge the need for broader improvements to our legal immigration system and temporary visa program, the H-2A program is the sole legal visa program available to production agriculture although it is limited to labor of a ‘temporary or seasonal nature.’ Although still accounting for less than 10 percent of all seasonal farm workers, employment of H-2A workers has nearly tripled in the past five years. Growth in the H-2A program has occurred despite extreme regulatory hurdles, government inefficiencies, and high costs.” The Members continued: “The need for a legal and reliable work force is so great that farmers use this program despite these concerns. Unfortunately, regulatory roadblocks create even more complexity. For the past two years, H-2A employers have experienced unacceptable delays in the processing of labor certifications, visa petitions, and interviews for final border crossing and arrival on farms and ranches. Already this spring, farmers from all across the country are seeing significant delays at the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) and the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service (USCIS). Unfortunately, it is also clear that DOL is at times not following the statutory requirement prescribed in law to respond to applications 30 days prior to the farmer’s date of need. These delays are devastating to growers and ranchers that cannot wait to plant, tend, and harvest. DOL must comply with the law, and the failure to comply is unacceptable. This trend leaves growers fearful of a major break-down in the system when peak demand for H-2A workers hits beginning in June.” The Members continued: “In view of the current situation, we urge that the agencies expeditiously process agricultural employers’ H-2A applications where possible. Our farms, our economies, and the livelihoods of our constituents depend upon timely application processing and visa issuance in advance of farmers’ dates of need. In accordance with all rules and regulations, we look forward to your response and your plans to increase the efficiency of the H-2A program to supply the agriculture sector with much-needed labor. We look forward to your timely response.” The full text of the letter is included below. June 10, 2016 The Honorable Thomas Perez The Honorable León Rodriguez Secretary, U.S. Department of Labor Director, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 200 Constitution Ave., NW 111 Massachusetts Ave., NW Washington, DC 20210 Washington, DC 20529 Dear Secretary Perez and Director Rodriguez, We are writing with regard to the serious issues now occurring with the administration of the H-2A agricultural worker program, which are creating a growing number of delays in the timely processing of applications and visa petitions. This breakdown is impacting growers and ranchers who are trying to hire workers in time for the harvest and threatening millions of dollars in perishable agricultural products. America’s farmers and ranchers face continuing and growing labor shortages needed to produce the crops that our nation relies upon. While some segments of the agricultural industry have been able to continue to increase productivity through mechanization, there remain major segments of our agricultural economy that require human labor. As the instability in the labor force grows, so does the use of the H-2A seasonal temporary worker program. While we acknowledge the need for broader improvements to our legal immigration system and temporary visa program, the H-2A program is the sole legal visa program available to production agriculture although it is limited to labor of a “temporary or seasonal nature.” Although still accounting for less than 10 percent of all seasonal farm workers, employment of H-2A workers has nearly tripled in the past five years. Growth in the H-2A program has occurred despite extreme regulatory hurdles, government inefficiencies, and high costs. The need for a legal and reliable work force is so great that farmers use this program despite these concerns. Unfortunately, regulatory roadblocks create even more complexity. For the past two years, H-2A employers have experienced unacceptable delays in the processing of labor certifications, visa petitions, and interviews for final border crossing and arrival on farms and ranches. Already this spring, farmers from all across the country are seeing significant delays at the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) and the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service (USCIS). Unfortunately, it is also clear that DOL is at times not following the statutory requirement prescribed in law to respond to applications 30 days prior to the farmer’s date of need. These delays are devastating to growers and ranchers that cannot wait to plant, tend, and harvest. DOL must comply with the law, and the failure to comply is unacceptable. This trend leaves growers fearful of a major break-down in the system when peak demand for H-2A workers hits beginning in June. We fully support efforts to ensure that both employers and employees comply with the statutory requirements of the H-2A program. We believe there are significant measures that the agencies involved could, and should, put into place that do not require legislation or even a major regulatory change. Implementing these measures could significantly improve the situation for growers and ranchers while the agencies continue to fulfill their duties to protect the rights of domestic workers and provide for our homeland security. For example, DOL’s Office of Foreign Labor Certification (OFLC) has a policy that is not supported by current regulations which requires all workers requested in any single petition be brought onto the job on the start date of the petition. Under the current delays experienced by growers at both the OFLC and USCIS, there is no opportunity to receive these workers by the date they are actually needed. Growers must be given the opportunity to provide a start date that is earlier than the actual anticipated start date as a “grace period” in an effort to better manage the administrative delays. In addition, the Validation Instrument for Business Enterprises (VIBE) program, as it is currently administered, is inappropriate for the H-2A program. VIBE mandates an annual subscription to Dun & Bradstreet which is an additional expense for growers. It is highly unusual for family farms to subscribe to Dun & Bradstreet except to comply with VIBE. A number of employers have been receiving Notices of Deficiencies (DOL) or Requests for Further Evidence (USCIS) related to proving that agriculture is in fact seasonal in nature. These notices create an unnecessary and untimely delay in the process. Your agencies must recognize that agriculture is inherently seasonal, and analysts in your agencies should be instructed to take all steps possible not to delay the process, especially considering current conditions. In view of the current situation, we urge that the three agencies expeditiously process agricultural employers’ H-2A applications where possible. Our farms, our economies, and the livelihoods of our constituents depend upon timely application processing and visa issuance in advance of farmers’ dates of need. In accordance with all rules and regulations, we look forward to your response and your plans to increase the efficiency of the H-2A program to supply the agriculture sector with much-needed labor. We look forward to your timely response. Sincerely, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) Rep. Sanford D. Bishop (D-GA) Rep. Suzan DelBene (D-WA) Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY) Rep. Ralph Abraham (R-LA) Rep. Rick Allen (R-GA) Rep. Mark Amodei (R-NV) Rep. Brad Ashford (D-NE) Rep. Andy Barr (R-KY) Rep. Dan Benishek, M.D. (R-MI) Rep. Rod Blum (R-IA) Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) Rep. Susan Brooks (R-IN) Rep. Julia Brownley (D-CA) Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) Rep. Earl L. ‘Buddy’ Carter (R-GA) Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO) Rep. Doug Collins (R-GA) Rep. Chris Collins (R-NY) Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-ND) Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL) Rep. Jeff Denham (R-CA) Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) Rep. Sam Farr (D-CA) Rep. John Garamendi (D-CA) Rep. Bob Gibbs (R-OH) Rep. Chris Gibson (R-NY) Rep. Gwen Graham (D-FL) Rep. Brett Guthrie (R-KY) Rep. Richard Hanna (R-NY) Rep. Gregg Harper (R-MS) Rep. Denny Heck (D-WA) Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) Rep. Jody Hice (R-GA) Rep. Richard Hudson (R-NC) Rep. Bill Huizenga (R-MI) Rep. Robert Hurt (R-VA) Rep. David Jolly (R-FL) Rep. John Katko (R-NY) Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA) Rep. Derek Kilmer (D-WA) Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ) Rep. Ann Kuster (D-NH) Rep. Raúl R. Labrador (R-ID) Rep. Doug LaMalfa (R-CA) Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA) Rep. Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ) Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) Rep. Mia Love (R-UT) Rep. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY) Rep. Thomas MacArthur (R-NJ) Rep. Sean P. Maloney (D-NY) Rep. Thomas Massie (R-KY) Rep. Jim McDermott (D-WA) Rep. James McGovern (D-MA) Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) Rep. Mark Meadows (R-NC) Rep. Grace Meng (D-NY) Rep. Luke Messer (R-IN) Rep. John Mica (R-FL) Rep. Candice Miller (R-MI) Rep. John Moolenaar (R-MI) Rep. Mick Mulvaney (R-SC) Rep. Devin Nunes (R-CA) Rep. Steven Palazzo (R-MS) Rep. Scott Perry (R-PA) Rep. Collin C. Peterson (D-MN) Rep. Bill Posey (R-FL) Rep. Tom Reed (R-NY) Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) Rep. Reid Ribble (R-WI) Rep. Harold Rogers (R-KY) Rep. Tom Rooney (R-FL) Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) Rep. Dennis Ross (R-FL) Rep. David Rouzer (R-NC) Rep. Matt Salmon (R-AZ) Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-OR) Rep. Austin Scott (R-GA) Rep. David Scott (D-GA) Rep. Mike Simpson (R-ID) Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ) Rep. Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY) Rep. Adrian Smith (R-NE) Rep. Marlin A. Stutzman (R-IN) Rep. Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (R-PA) Rep. Fred Upton (R-MI) Rep. David G. Valadao (R-CA) Rep. Juan Vargas (D-CA) Rep. Marc A. Veasey (D-TX) Rep. Daniel Webster (R-FL) Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT) Rep. Lynn A. Westmoreland (R-GA) Rep. Ed Whitfield (R-KY Rep. Rob Woodall (R-GA) Rep. Ted S. Yoho, DVM (R-FL) Rep. Lee M. Zeldin (R-NY)
06.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after voting against H.R. 5278, the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA): “It is critical for Puerto Rico to begin to live within its means and address years of fiscal mismanagement. However, the answer to the long term fiscal outlook facing territories and states is to implement pro-growth conservative solutions and decrease the government red-tape, which is currently hindering economic growth in Puerto Rico. Without changing the root cause of economic problems, we will not solve Puerto Rico’s hardships. Additionally, I could not vote for the precedent set by this bill. Constitutionally-guaranteed debt backed by the ‘full faith and credit’ of the issuing government, in this case Puerto Rico, represents the highest level of financial commitment behind any public liability. I am deeply concerned that applying Chapter 9 bankruptcy provisions in Puerto Rico’s case in order to discharge constitutionally-guaranteed debts would create the dangerous political precedent on restructuring debt by disregarding constitutional obligations. Any state or territory’s ability to provide essential services may be negatively impacted if bondholders can no longer trust the fiscal promises made by states and territories. Territories and states must be held to the promises that they make to secure debts, and I oppose this legislation because it does not go far enough to ensure that the principle of full faith and credit is honored.”
06.02.2016	PASCO – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) was honored at the TRIDEC General Membership Luncheon in Pasco yesterday when he was presented with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce “Spirit of Enterprise Award” for his support of pro-growth, pro-jobs policies in Congress. “Growing the economy, boosting trade opportunities for Washington state exporters, and stimulating job creation in the private sector are my priorities in Congress,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I am pleased to accept the Spirit of Enterprise Award for supporting commonsense policies that encourage American entrepreneurship.” “The U.S. Chamber’s Spirit of Enterprise Award recognizes members of Congress who are dedicated to advancing policies that strengthen our economy,” said Chris Eyler, Executive Director, Northwest Region for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “In just his first year in Congress, Rep. Dan Newhouse has demonstrated that he knows what Washington state’s and America’s businesses need to succeed.” The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation This is the 28th year that the U.S. Chamber has formally honored the accomplishments of this select group of members of Congress, and the first time Rep. Newhouse was eligible to receive the award. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business federation representing the interests of more than 3 million businesses of all sizes, sectors, and regions, as well as state and local chambers and industry associations.
05.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today announced that he has received the “Hero of Main Street” award from the National Retail Federation for his support of legislation critical to the retail industry. Rep. Newhouse is part of a bi-partisan group honored for their support of a wide range of issues including international trade, infrastructure investment, tax reform and labor issues. “I am honored to be named a ‘Hero of Main Street’ and to accept this award,” said Rep. Newhouse. “As a third-generation farmer and small businessman myself, I understand the importance of pro-growth policies that encourage small businesses to hire more workers. Top-down regulations from D.C. and a complex tax code stifle innovation and job creation, and I am committed to improving conditions for entrepreneurs and businesses across our country and in Central Washington.” “Congressman Newhouse has shown through his support that he cares about retailers big and small, and values the role these businesses play in communities across the country,” NRF President and CEO Matthew Shay said. “Congressman Newhouse is an advocate for his thriving Main Street and to the long-term growth the retail industry – our nation’s largest job creators and the catalyst for continued growth and opportunity for our nation’s economy.” Rep. Newhouse receives the ‘Hero of Main Street’ Award from Mark Johnson, VP Government Affairs, Washington Retail Association The Hero of Main Street award was created by NRF in 2013 to recognize members of Congress for support of the retail industry’s public policy priorities. Eligibility is based on NRF’s Retail Opportunity Index, bill sponsorship and advocacy to advance the industry’s priorities. The “heroes” have supported policies and initiatives defined by NRF that recognize the contributions of the retail industry, and have worked to encourage a “vibrant, sustained and healthy” retail sector. NRF is the world’s largest retail trade association, representing discount and department stores, home goods and specialty stores, Main Street merchants, grocers, wholesalers, chain restaurants and Internet retailers from the United States and more than 45 countries. Retail is the nation’s largest private sector employer, supporting one in four U.S. jobs – 42 million working Americans. Contributing $2.6 trillion to annual GDP, retail is a daily barometer for the nation’s economy.
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-OR) led a letter signed by 65 Members of the House of Representatives to U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Tom Vilsack warning the USDA to take all factors – including potential market and regulatory uncertainty and trade disruptions – into account when considering a proposed pre-market biotechnology regulatory framework called “Part 340.” The Members wrote to the USDA regarding the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service’s (APHIS) Notice of Intent (NOI) to revise pre-market biotechnology regulations, which was published in the Federal Register on February 5, 2016. “As proponents of agricultural innovation, we feel strongly that government policies and regulations should consistently promote scientific advancement in food and agricultural production,” the Members wrote. “Science is helping, and will continue to help, farmers and other food producers feed a rapidly growing global population in the face of increasing weather, pest, disease, and environmental challenges.” The Members continued in the letter: “We are encouraged that APHIS is seeking to use its existing regulatory authority to exempt classes of biotechnology products the agency knows do not present a risk to agriculture, the environment, or consumers. However, we are concerned that APHIS’s proposals have created tremendous uncertainty as to what breeding processes and which categories of products will receive pre-market regulatory scrutiny, and to what degree. In addition, we are concerned that a lack of dialogue between our government and our major trading partners could lead to trade disruptions in significant export markets.” “This kind of regulatory ambiguity has the potential to stifle the commercialization of new plant breeding innovation that is particularly valuable to specialty crop producers. Congress has invested significant resources in researching pest and disease challenges within the specialty crop sector…. We appreciate your attention to our views and look forward to staying in close contact with the Department as APHIS collects public comments on the NOI and makes decisions related to this sweeping regulatory revision.” The text of the letter follows, and a PDF of the original letter is available here: Dear Secretary Vilsack, We write to you regarding the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service’s (APHIS) Notice of Intent (NOI) to revise pre-market biotechnology regulations, which was published in the Federal Register on February 5, 2016. As proponents of agricultural innovation, we feel strongly that government policies and regulations should consistently promote scientific advancement in food and agricultural production. Science is helping, and will continue to help, farmers and other food producers feed a rapidly growing global population in the face of increasing weather, pest, disease, and environmental challenges. We appreciate the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s historic commitment to scientific discovery and risk-based regulation for products of biotechnology. This commitment has enabled the development and widespread commercial use of many beneficial biotech crops. For innovation like this to continue, APHIS must proceed cautiously and deliberately with any potential re-write of the current biotechnology regulatory structure. It is also essential that APHIS works closely with stakeholders, other biotechnology regulators, and additional relevant parties, such as our trade representatives, to ensure that any revised rules avoid unintended consequences. Based on our reading of the NOI and feedback from key stakeholders, we recognize items of both commendation and concern with what has been proposed. We are encouraged that APHIS is seeking to use its existing regulatory authority to exempt classes of biotechnology products the agency knows do not present a risk to agriculture, the environment, or consumers. However, we are concerned that APHIS’s proposals have created tremendous uncertainty as to what breeding processes and which categories of products will receive pre-market regulatory scrutiny, and to what degree. In addition, we are concerned that a lack of dialogue between our government and our major trading partners could lead to trade disruptions in significant export markets. This kind of regulatory ambiguity has the potential to stifle the commercialization of new plant breeding innovation that is particularly valuable to specialty crop producers. Congress has invested significant resources in researching pest and disease challenges within the specialty crop sector. Because many of the most serious pests and diseases confronting specialty crops can be mitigated through innovative plant breeding methods, it is incumbent upon APHIS to focus the scope of potential regulatory changes on areas where there is a clear and justified risk. It would be irresponsible to sweep whole classes of plant breeding methods into a pre-market regulatory structure without scientific and risk-based justification, particularly any methods that have been safely utilized for decades. Doing so would not just hinder innovation in specialty crop production, it would likely prevent scientific breakthroughs that will improve the quality of life and health outcomes for billions of people around the world. We appreciate your attention to our views and look forward to staying in close contact with the Department as APHIS collects public comments on the NOI and makes decisions related to this sweeping regulatory revision. Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-OR) Rep. Brad Ashford (D-NE) Rep. Dan Benishek, M.D. (R-MI) Rep. Sanford Bishop (D-GA) Rep. Rod Blum (R-IA) Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) Rep. Susan Brooks (R-IN) Rep. Cheri Bustos (D-IL) Rep. Chris Collins (R-NY) Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-ND) Rep. Rick Crawford (R-AR) Rep. Henry Cuellar, Ph.D. (D-TX) Rep. Suzan DelBene (D-WA) Rep. Jeff Denham (R-CA) Rep. Scott DesJarlais, M.D. (R-TN) Rep. Daniel M. Donovan, Jr. (R-NY) Rep. Renee Ellmers (R-NC) Rep. Stephen Fincher (R-TN) Rep. Bill Foster (D-IL) Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) Rep. Paul A. Gosar, D.D.S. (R-AZ) Rep. Sam Graves (R-MO) Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-MO) Rep. Rubén Hinojosa (D-TX) Rep. George Holding (R-NC) Rep. Richard Hudson (R-NY) Rep. Tim Huelskamp (R-KS) Rep. Lynn Jenkins (R-KS) Rep. Trent Kelly (R-MS) Rep. Steve King (R-IA) Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ) Rep. Doug LaMalfa (R-CA) Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO) Rep. Frank Lucas (R-OK) Rep. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY) Rep. Tom Marino (R-PA) Rep. Martha McSally (R-AZ) Rep. Luke Messer (R-IN) Rep. John Moolenaar (R-MI) Rep. Collin C. Peterson (D-MN) Rep. Robert Pittenger (R-NC) Rep. Mike Pompeo (R-KS) Rep. Reid Ribble (R-WI) Rep. Todd Rokita (R-IN) Rep. David Rouzer (R-NC) Rep. David Schweikert (R-AZ) Rep. Austin Scott (R-GA) Rep. David Scott (D-GA) Rep. Terri Sewell (D-AL) Rep. John Shimkus (R-IL) Rep. Kyrsten Simena (D-AZ) Rep. Adrian Smith (R-NE) Rep. Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (R-PA) Rep. David G. Valadao (R-CA) Rep. Filemon Vela (D-TX) Rep. Tim Walberg (R-MI) Rep. Jackie Walorski (R-IN) Rep. Timothy J. Walz (D-MN) Rep. Randy Weber (R-TX) Rep. Kevin Yoder (R-KS) Rep. Ted S. Yoho, DVM Rep. David Young (R-IA) Rep. Ryan Zinke (R-MT)
05.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) joined Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Dave Reichert (R-WA), and Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) to express their deep concern to the Washington State Office of Insurance Commissioner Mike Kreidler on the withdrawal of insurers Premera and LifeWise from the Washington Health Benefit Exchange in 12 counties – Chelan, Douglas, Ferry, Kittitas, Lewis, Lincoln, Mason, Pend Oreille, San Juan, Skagit, Stevens, and Yakima for the 2017 plan year. Rep. Newhouse released the following statement: "Cancelled plans, fewer choices and rising insurance premiums were not the promises the Affordable Care Act made to Americans,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The news of insurers exiting the Washington exchange is the inevitable result of this disastrous government-centered health law, and the impact of higher costs will be felt by families and individuals across Washington. It is critical now more than ever to repeal and replace Obamacare with conservative solutions that restore competition and patient-centered healthcare." The text of the letter follows, and a PDF of the original letter is available here: Dear Commissioner: We write to express our deep concerns regarding significant proposed changes to the Washington State health insurance market for the 2017 plan year. As you know, Premera Blue Cross and LifeWise Health Plan of Washington, a subsidiary of Premera, recently announced a number of changes to their health plans in the individual marketplace. In addition to revising plan models and narrowing provider networks, Premera and LifeWise combined will completely withdraw from the Washington Health Benefit Exchange in 12 counties – Chelan, Douglas, Ferry, Kittitas, Lewis, Lincoln, Mason, Pend Oreille, San Juan, Skagit, Stevens, and Yakima. This withdrawal will impact approximately 17,000 individuals, and leave two Washington counties with just one exchange insurer for the next plan year. This problem is unfortunately neither one unique to Washington State nor a surprise. Health plans across the nation are exiting the Affordable Care Act’s individual marketplace. UnitedHealth Group announced last month it would pull out of 26 states – including Washington – and Humana also said it plans to reduce its market share in several states. Next year, a staggering 650 counties will have only one insurer offering coverage on the exchanges according to recent news reports. Further, 70 percent of those counties are predominantly rural areas – a major setback for those living in rural counties where barriers to access care already exist. These cancelled plans are the result of a failing top-down, one-size fits all health care law that continues to stifle innovation and flexibility in marketplaces across the country. This government-knows-best policy is creating an environment that ties the hands of insurers who only want to provide reliable and affordable coverage that is especially critical to individuals and families with chronic or life-threatening diseases. We know the forces of choice and competition are the best way to lower costs and increase quality. With an alarming number of insurers leaving the marketplace, we can only assume premiums will continue their upward trajectory. On Monday, May 16, 2016, your office announced insurers have proposed average increases of 13.5 percent for 2017. Coincidentally, Premera is seeking the biggest rate hike with proposed average increases of 20 percent. Last year, your office approved a 3.9 percent premium increase, nearly equal to the 4.2 percent insurers initially sought. A jump into the double digits – perhaps unavoidable considering the problems created by the current health care law – will hurt individuals, families, and small businesses across the state. These announcements are a major blow to families across Washington. We believe it is critically important to preserve and protect Washingtonians’ option to choose the best health care plan to meet their needs, especially in rural communities. We hope you will consider the impact of these marketplace changes on our constituents’ continued access to affordable health insurance plans. Sincerely,
05.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after voting in favor H.R. 4909, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017, which passed the U.S. House. This legislation ensures that our men and women in uniform have the resources they need to protect and defend the United States. This legislation also governs projects under the Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) and sets authorization levels for legacy defense clean-up. “The NDAA makes critical investments to rebuild our military, provide for the common defense, and give our troops the pay raise they deserve,” said Rep. Newhouse. “It provides support for the federal government to continue its legal and moral responsibility to clean up Hanford. The NDAA also makes progress on important priorities for the Tri-Cities, including the transfer of federal land to the local community for the economic benefit of the region. The bill removes deed restrictions on Port of Benton land currently inhibiting development that will create jobs and economic opportunity. I am pleased that my amendment to evaluate the McNary Shoreline land along the Columbia River for transfer to the local community was included in the final bill.” To meet the federal government’s obligation at the Hanford Site, the NDAA authorizes funding at $769,811,000 for the Richland Operations Office (RL) and $1.4875 billion for the Office of River Protection (ORP) to continue critical defense nuclear waste cleanup at Hanford. The NDAA also contains an amendment included by Rep. Newhouse that directs the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to provide documentation on land it acquired in the 1940s and 1950s along the shoreline of the Columbia River that runs through the Tri-Cities. Rep. Newhouse’s amendment directs the Corps to provide a report to Congress on how the land was acquired following the Columbia River Flood of 1948 – including specific legal documentation and information on the process by which the federal government acquired the land, whether by paying Fair Market Value, condemnation, or through other means of procurement. Additionally, passage of NDAA advances H.R. 5017, the Port of Benton Restriction Release Act of 2016. This legislation had previously been approved by the House Armed Services Committee as part of the NDAA, and lifts the conveyance restrictions on a 71.5 acre parcel of land that was deeded to the Port of Benton in 1996 by the United States Maritime Administration. Read the letter Rep. Newhouse sent to the House Armed Services Committee to request that support for Hanford cleanup be made a priority in the NDAA. Click here for a summary of the NDAA for FY 2017. Click here for the text of Rep. Newhouse’s McNary Shoreline Army Corps Report amendment. Background on Port of Benton Restriction Release Act: In April, Rep. Newhouse introduced H.R. 5017, the Port of Benton Restriction Release Act of 2016 to lift the conveyance restrictions on a 71.5 acre parcel of land that was deeded to the Port of Benton in 1996 by the United States Maritime Administration (MARAD). The text of the legislation was included in the NDAA by a vote in the House Armed Services Committee. The Port of Benton acquired the parcel of land in 1996 when the Government Services Administration authorized the transfer from the Department of Energy (DOE) to MARAD for disposition to the Port, after the property was declared surplus to the needs of the U.S. The land, which is has been renamed the “Richland Innovation Center,” is located in the Tri-Cities region of Central Washington and is part of the Hanford nuclear reservation’s former “DOE 3000 Area.” On June 9, 2000, President Clinton established the Hanford Reach National Monument, and as a result MARAD granted the Port permission to use the property for business and commercial purposes on July 12, 2007; however, the other restrictions in the “Deed of Conveyance” remained in place. These restrictions have inhibited the Port of Benton’s ability to attract private and small business investments in the former DOE 3000 Area. In accordance with the remaining restrictions, the Port is required to submit all sub-leases over five years on the property to MARAD for approval. Additionally, the Port is required to submit annual reports to MARAD for the parcel. This property is not located next to navigable and therefore no longer serves the purpose for which it was originally conveyed under MARAD’s maritime economic development program.
05.17.2016	WASHINGTON – Rep. Newhouse (R-WA) was named by the Healthcare Leadership Council (HLC) as a “Champion of Healthcare Innovation” at an award ceremony last week in Washington, DC. This award is given to members who support patient-centered medical progress. “I am honored to be named as a recipient of this award,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I will continue to advocate for conservative, patient-centered healthcare solutions that put individual Americans, not bureaucrats, in the driver’s seat for their medical needs.” “We’re on the verge of a remarkable era in American healthcare. Genomic and biologic research, improved data analytics, and advanced mobile technologies are enabling people to live longer, healthier lives,” said HLC President Mary R. Grealy. “To continue this exciting transformation, we need visionary leadership and sound policymaking. We honored Representative Newhouse for providing important advocacy and leadership for patients and consumers.” The award presentation took place at the Council’s annual Healthcare Innovations Expo on Capitol Hill. The day-long event is dedicated to showcasing new developments in health care technologies, treatments and practices. This year’s event featured, among other displays, emerging cancer therapies, virtual reality technologies to assist veterans with post-combat stress challenges, and uses of health data sharing to combat opioid abuse and addiction.
05.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), released the following statement after the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Office of Inspector General announced that it will begin an investigation into the EPA’s improper funding of the What’s Upstream advocacy campaign in Washington state that attempts to influence legislators for greater regulation of farmers and ranchers. “The What’s Upstream campaign clearly crosses the line into unlawful advocacy, and the EPA owes American farmers answers on the extent to which taxpayer funds were used improperly,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I will continue to push for transparency and accountability on this misguided and illegal propaganda effort against farmers in Washington.” In April, Rep. Newhouse was joined by House Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway (R-TX) and 143 Members on a bipartisan letter to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy. The Members requested answers on EPA Region 10’s funding of the whatsupstream.com website and advocacy campaign in Washington state. For the full text of the letter, click here.
05.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Friday, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) joined Rep. Tim Walberg (R-MI) as an original cosponsor of H.R. 5226, The Regulatory Integrity Act. This legislation provides greater transparency to the federal government’s rulemaking process. The legislation is in response to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) covert propaganda efforts during the public rulemaking process for the flawed Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule. The EPA has also drawn scrutiny for advocacy efforts in Washington state by its grantee in the What’s Up Stream campaign. In 2015, the New York Times reported that the EPA undertook “a campaign that tests the limits of federal lobbying law.” Following that story, the nonpartisan Government Accountability Office issued its own report stating: “the EPA violated provisions [of law] through its use of social media in association with its rulemaking efforts to define “Waters of the United States” under the Clean Water Act (CWA) during FYs 2014 and 2015.” “Federal agencies should not use taxpayer funds to promote new rules and regulations against the very people that they are regulating,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Congress already prohibits that practice annually, and the Regulatory Integrity Act will encourage transparency by creating an easily searchable database that the public can access to ensure agencies follow the law. I thank Congressman Walberg for his work on this issue, and I am proud to join him in calling for this important legislation.” “The EPA has been overreaching its authority for some time, and the agency’s covert campaign to sway the outcome of the harmful Waters of the US rule is a prime example. Now we know, based on an independent report, that the EPA did indeed engage in illegal lobbying methods,” said Rep. Walberg. “The Regulatory Integrity Act will ensure the EPA and other federal agencies operate the rulemaking process in an open and transparent manner to prevent such misconduct in the future.” H.R. 5226, Regulatory Integrity Act, is expected to be marked up by the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee this week.
05.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA), released the following statement after supporting House passage of H.R. 5046, the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act of 2016 and 17 bills to address the national opioid abuse crisis. H.R. 5046 combats the opioid epidemic by establishing a streamlined, comprehensive opioid abuse grant program that encompasses a variety of new and existing programs, such as vital training and resources for first responders and law enforcement, criminal investigations for the unlawful distribution of opioids, drug courts, and residential substance abuse treatment. The bill authorizes $103 million annually for the grant program and is fully offset for cut-go purposes. “The tragedy of opioid abuse devastates thousands of American families, and Congress is taking action on bipartisan solutions to combat this crisis,” said Rep. Newhouse. “With a toll of 46,000 Americans lives each year, drug overdoses now claim more lives annually than car accidents. This is unacceptable, and on behalf of families and communities, I support additional resources for law enforcement and for substance abuse treatment. I am grateful for my colleagues’ hard work on these targeted, bipartisan solutions to the opioid crisis.” Background: An “opioid” is a type of narcotic derived from the opium poppy, which includes naturally-occurring drugs like morphine or codeine, as well as synthetic or partially synthetic drugs like hydrocodone (including brand names like Vicodin), oxycodone (including OxyContin and Percocet), and heroin. Hydrocodone products are the most commonly prescribed for a variety of painful conditions, including dental and injury-related pain. Morphine is often used before and after surgical procedures to alleviate severe pain. Codeine, on the other hand, is often prescribed for mild pain. The drugs’ abuse potential, over-prescribing by the medical profession, and diversion of prescription opioids from the legitimate supply chain have all contributed to the ongoing epidemic. Click here to view the text of the legislation. In addition to H.R. 5046, the House passed 17 bills this week to address opioid abuse: H.R. 4063 – Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Gus Bilirakis / Veterans’ Affairs Committee) H.R. 4985 – Kingpin Designation Improvement Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. John Katko / Foreign Affairs Committee) S. 32 – Transnational Drug Trafficking Act of 2015 (Sponsored by Sen. Dianne Feinstein / Judiciary Committee) H.R. 5048 – Good Samaritan Assessment Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. Frank Guinta / Judiciary Committee) H.R. 5052 – OPEN Act (Sponsored by Rep. Kevin McCarthy / Judiciary Committee) H.R. 4843 – Infant Plan of Safe Care Improvement Act (Sponsored by Rep. Lou Barletta / Education and the Workforce Committee) H.R. 4978 – NAS Healthy Babies Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Evan Jenkins / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 3680 – Co-Prescribing to Reduce Overdoses Act of 2016, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. John Sarbanes / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 3691 – Improving Treatment for Pregnant and Postpartum Women Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. Ben Ray Lujan / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 1818 – Veteran Emergency Medical Technician Support Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. Adam Kinzinger / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 4969 – John Thomas Decker Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. Pat Meehan / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 4586 – Lali’s Law (Sponsored by Rep. Bob Dold / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 4599 – Reducing Unused Medications Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. Katherine Clark / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 4976 – Opioid Review Modernization Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 4982 – Examining Opioid Treatment Infrastructure Act of 2016 (Sponsored by Rep. Bill Foster / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 4981 – Opioid Use Disorder Treatment Expansion and Modernization Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Larry Bucshon / Energy and Commerce Committee) H.R. 4641 – To provide for the establishment of an inter-agency task force to review, modify, and update best practices for pain management and prescribing pain medication, and for other purposes (Subject to a Rule) (Sponsored by Rep. Susan Brooks / Energy and Commerce Committee)
05.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today announced the winners of the 2016 Congressional Art Competition for high school student in the Fourth District. “This competition gives high school students in Central Washington the opportunity to showcase their artwork in the United States Capitol for thousands of visitors to see,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I congratulate Audra Coulson from Wahluke High School in Mattawa for submitting the winning entry, Soul Sisters. I also congratulate everyone who participated and those whose work will be displayed proudly in Fourth District congressional offices in Yakima and the Tri-Cities.” Rep. Newhouse was assisted by an advisory committee of Fourth District residents who helped select the competition finalists. The winning entry, Soul Sisters, by Audra Coulson from Wahluke High School in Mattawa, will be hung in the U.S. Capitol alongside winning entries from congressional districts across the country for one year. The winner will visit Washington, D.C. to attend a reception sponsored by the Congressional Institute, which holds the annual competition. Second place winner Remember, by Yliana Adame from Toppenish High School will be offered the opportunity to hang her artwork in the Fourth Congressional Office in Yakima, and third place winner Madre de la Naturaleza, by Selina Villafan from Toppenish High School will be offered the opportunity to have her artwork hang in Tri-Cities office. Winner: Soul Sisters, Audra Coulson, 11th grade Wahluke High School 2nd Place: Remember, Yliana Adame, Toppenish High School 3rd Place: Madre de la Naturaleza, Selina Villafan, Toppenish High School You can view the entries on Rep. Newhouse’s Facebook page here.
04.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) praised the inclusion of the Port of Benton Restriction Release Act of 2016 within the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which was approved yesterday by the House Armed Services Committee on a vote of 60-2. Rep. Newhouse released the following statement: “Inclusion of the Port of Benton Restriction Release Act within the NDAA is a positive step forward for commonsense legislation to release the remaining restrictions that have inhibited the Port of Benton’s ability to develop this parcel of land for the economic benefit of the Tri-Cities region,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I was pleased to work closely with the Port of Benton on this legislation, and I thank them for their work. I am grateful to Chairman Mac Thornberry, Ranking Member Adam Smith, and the House Armed Services Committee for working with me on this legislation and ensuring its inclusion into the NDAA.” Rep. Newhouse introduced H.R. 5017, the Port of Benton Restriction Release Act of 2016 to lift the conveyance restrictions on a 71.5 acre parcel of land that was deeded to the Port of Benton in 1996 by the United States Maritime Administration (MARAD). Background: The Port of Benton acquired the 71.5 acre parcel of land in 1996 when the Government Services Administration authorized the transfer from the Department of Energy (DOE) to the United States Maritime Administration (MARAD) for disposition to the Port, after the property was declared surplus to the needs of the U.S. The land, which is has been renamed the “Richland Innovation Center,” is located in the Tri-Cities region of Central Washington and is part of the Hanford nuclear reservation’s former “DOE 3000 Area.” On June 9, 2000, President Clinton established the Hanford Reach National Monument, and as a result MARAD granted the Port permission to use the property for business and commercial purposes on July 12, 2007; however, the other restrictions in the “Deed of Conveyance” remained in place. These restrictions have inhibited the Port of Benton’s ability to attract private and small business investments in the former DOE 3000 Area. In accordance with the remaining restrictions, the Port is required to submit all sub-leases over five years on the property to MARAD for approval. Additionally, the Port is required to submit annual reports to MARAD for the parcel. This property is not located next to navigable and therefore no longer serves the purpose for which it was originally conveyed under MARAD’s maritime economic development program.
04.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) has been named as a recipient of the 2016 Thomas Jefferson Award by the International Foodservice Distributors Association (IFDA). The award is presented by IFDA to lawmakers who support the free enterprise system. The Thomas Jefferson Award recognizes legislators whose work in Washington, D.C. will help distributors accomplish this mission. "The foodservice distribution industry is pleased to thank Representative Newhouse for supporting policies that will help our members grow their businesses," said IFDA President and CEO Mark S. Allen. "Our industry still believes that Thomas Jefferson's vision of a strong free enterprise system, with limited government involvement in the economy, is the path to prosperity. We appreciate Representative Newhouse's support for our industry." During each Congress, IFDA presents this award to Senators and Members of Congress who demonstrate, through their voting record, a commitment to increasing economic opportunity and reducing government regulation. The 2016 award is based on votes during the 114th Congress on issues critical to the health of the foodservice distribution industry and the nation's overall economy. The program was introduced in 1992 and was inspired by Thomas Jefferson, who in his first inaugural address said, "A wise and frugal government ... shall leave men ... free to regulate their own pursuits of industry and improvement, and shall not take from the mouth of labor the bread it has earned. This is the sum of good government."
04.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) introduced H.R. 5017, the Port of Benton Restriction Release Act of 2016 to lift the conveyance restrictions on a 71.5 acre parcel of land that was deeded to the Port of Benton in 1996 by the United States Maritime Administration (MARAD). Rep. Newhouse released the following statement on introducing H.R. 5017: "This legislation removes restrictions and barriers that have inhibited the Port’s ability to develop this parcel of land for the economic benefit of the Tri-Cities region. In recent years, there has been an increase in economic activity near this property, including over $70 million in investments, the creation of the Manhattan Project National Historic Park, and the transfer of 1,641 acres of Hanford land back to the local communities for further economic and industrial development. The Port of Benton has targeted uses for this land that could yield significant economic growth and the creation of jobs for the local communities and for the region – highlighting the importance of removing these deed restrictions. This legislation will release the remaining restrictions included in the original ‘Deed of Conveyance,’ which will allow the Port and surrounding communities to continue their hard work to create jobs, stimulate economic growth, and retain a skilled workforce in the area.” For the text of the legislation, click here. Background: The Port of Benton acquired the 71.5 acre parcel of land in 1996 when the Government Services Administration authorized the transfer from the Department of Energy (DOE) to the United States Maritime Administration (MARAD) for disposition to the Port, after the property was declared surplus to the needs of the U.S. The land, which is has been renamed the “Richland Innovation Center,” is located in the Tri-Cities region of Central Washington and is part of the Hanford nuclear reservation’s former “DOE 3000 Area.” On June 9, 2000, President Clinton established the Hanford Reach National Monument, and as a result MARAD granted the Port permission to use the property for business and commercial purposes on July 12, 2007; however, the other restrictions in the “Deed of Conveyance” remained in place. These restrictions have inhibited the Port of Benton’s ability to attract private and small business investments in the former DOE 3000 Area. In accordance with the remaining restrictions, the Port is required to submit all sub-leases over five years on the property to MARAD for approval. Additionally, the Port is required to submit annual reports to MARAD for the parcel. This property is not located next to navigable and therefore no longer serves the purpose for which it was originally conveyed under MARAD’s maritime economic development program.
04.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), House Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway (R-TX), and Rep. Brad Ashford (D-NE) were joined by 142 Members on a bipartisan letter to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy. The Members request answers on EPA Region 10’s funding of whatsupstream.com website and advocacy campaign in Washington State that attempts to influence legislators for greater regulation of farmers and ranchers. Rep. Newhouse: “Federal law is clear, and the EPA knows better than to be engaged in the misuse of taxpayer dollars for anti-farmer publicity campaigns that lobby for more regulations. Despite previous EPA violations of federal laws pertaining to funding propaganda, advocacy, and lobbying efforts, it is troubling that the EPA has allowed taxpayer funds to be used to attack farmers. The EPA must be held accountable to cooperate fully with oversight investigations and to end the pattern of taxpayer-funded lobbying efforts.” Chairman Conaway: “This is one more example of the lack of appropriate oversight by EPA. I applaud Rep. Newhouse and many of my colleagues for holding EPA accountable for the unlawful misuse of federal funds. America’s farmers and ranchers deserve a government that will defend their cause and work to make sure it has a thriving future. These actions by EPA, however, do the opposite.” Rep. Ashford: “I am disappointed in the actions taken by the EPA to lobby Washington State legislators using federal funds. With trust in our public officials at an all-time low, it is imperative that our federal agencies respect federal laws. I join my colleagues in the House and Senate to reprimand the EPA and call on them to fully cooperate with investigations. I do not want to see this misuse of federal funds impact other states, such as Nebraska.” Background: Earlier this month, the EPA admitted in news reports that it should not have funded a campaign in Washington State known as whatsupstream.com, due to that campaign’s brazen lobbying of state legislators in contravention of federal law. The whatsupstream.com campaign, which was wholly funded by the EPA, used grant awards to fund a website, radio ads, and billboards depicting dead fish and polluted water, urging individuals to contact their state legislators and, “hold the agricultural industry to the same level of responsibility as other industries.” A large, red button on the website labeled, “Take action! We’ve made it simple,” allowed visitors to easily send an email to their state legislators advocating for 100-foot stream buffer zones and other policies. An EPA Inspector General’s report from 2014 had warned that the EPA region responsible for awarding the grant had insufficient protections in place to ensure awardees were not using funds for advocacy, propaganda, and/or lobbying efforts. According to a December, 2015 report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), the EPA violated federal lobbying and advocacy laws by funding social media campaigns supporting EPA’s Waters of the United States (WOTUS) Rule. The letter and the list of signers in alphabetical order are included below. For the full text of the letter with footnotes, click here. April 20, 2016 The Honorable Gina McCarthy Administrator Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue N.W. Washington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator McCarthy, We write to you today to express our extreme concern with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Region 10 funded whatsupstream.com website and campaign, which recently has come to our attention. While we appreciate EPA’s recent admission that wrongdoing occurred and that the campaign should never have been federally funded, we are still confused why EPA would have approved an award clearly violating a number of federal laws pertaining to funding propaganda, advocacy, and lobbying efforts. We find this revelation particularly disturbing, as it follows closely to both the EPA Office of Inspector General (OIG) questioning of Region 10’s award monitoring and a December 2015 Government Accountability Office (GAO) report that found EPA had committed similar violations on social media advocacy campaigns supporting EPA’s Waters of the United States (WOTUS) regulation (also known as the “Clean Water Rule”). As you are no doubt aware, federal law clearly directs that, “No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not authorized by the Congress.” Further restrictions clearly prohibit federal funds being used for many of the advocacy and publicity materials used by the whatsupstream.com campaign, including publications, radio, and electronic communications. Despite this stark prohibition, the website whatsupstream.com has a button at the top of its site directing visitors to, “Take Action! We’ve made it simple.” This button loads auto-generated text that will be sent to the visitor’s respective Washington State legislators, urging the legislators to support, “stronger laws protecting the health of our water resources in Washington,” by encouraging, “100-foot natural buffers between agriculture lands and streams.” Additionally this site asserts that, “state government must hold the agricultural industry to the same level of responsibility as other industries....” To be clear, whatsupstream.com has a disclaimer at the bottom of its website stating, “This project has been funded wholly or in part by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.” Based on our review of EPA Puget Sound Financial and Ecosystem Accounting Tracking System (FEATS) project reports, it appears that this campaign has been wholly funded by the EPA with no matching funds provided by any private or state and local government entities. Currently, the Washington State Department of Ecology is in the process of renewing the requirements for its National Pollutant Discharge Eliminations System (NPDES) permits for Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations (CAFOs). The Washington State legislature has also considered other water quality and agricultural related legislation during this same time period. These state regulatory and legislative initiatives were pending and under consideration during the same time of the lobbying efforts funded by EPA. What is more disturbing is that a July 14, 2014 report by the EPA’s OIG found that Region 10 EPA project officers, “emphasized overall progress rather than compliance with specific subaward requirements. This emphasis on overall progress increased the risk that project officers would not detect issues needing corrective action that might impact the project meeting its goals.” The report also found that of a sample of ten different EPA subawards, only three had protocols in place to ensure 501(c)(4) subaward recipients did not engage in lobbying activities. Despite these warning signs, an October 30, 2015 EPA Region 10 FEATS report pertaining to the whatsupstream.com project concluded that, “As a result of extensive review and engagement by EPA, we have been revising the website, and have to [sic] restarted media outreach”. This conclusion would seem to suggest that, even in spite of OIG’s report, EPA reviewed, engaged, and approved of the current whatsupstream.com website that is in blatant violation of federal law. As mentioned, on December 14, 2015, GAO issued an opinion finding that EPA violated propaganda and anti-lobbying laws by using certain social media platforms in association with the WOTUS regulation. By obligating and expending appropriated funds in violation of specific prohibitions contained in appropriations acts for fiscal years 2014 and 2015, GAO found EPA also violated the Antideficiency Act. The whatsupstream.com campaign appears to be part of an alarming trend where EPA engages in funding advocacy efforts against the very entities it is seeking to regulate. EPA cannot systematically choose when it wishes to follow the law and when it does not. Congress has made it explicitly clear that EPA’s funding may not be used, “for publicity or propaganda purposes designed to support or defeat any proposed or pending regulation, administrative action, or order issued by the executive branch of any State or local government.” We are aware that Senators Inhofe and Roberts recently sent a letter to the EPA OIG requesting an official audit and investigation into the whatsupstream.com campaign and related activities, and the House Committee on Agriculture is conducting a related oversight investigation of EPA grant management. We fully support these requests, and strongly advise EPA’s full and swift cooperation with all investigations and imminent oversight inquiries into this matter. Sincerely, Dan Newhouse Brad Ashford Member of Congress Member of Congress Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) Rep. Brad Ashford (D-NE) Rep. Ralph Abraham, M.D. (R-LA) Rep. Brian Babin (R-TX) Rep. Andy Barr (R-KY) Rep. Dan Benishek, M.D. (R-MI) Rep. Mike Bishop (R-MI) Rep. Diane Black (R-TN) Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) Rep. Rod Blum (R-IA) Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) Rep. Charles Boustany (R-LA) Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX) Rep. Dave Brat (R-VA) Rep. Jim Bridenstine (R-OK) Rep. Mo Brooks (R-AL) Rep. Susan Brooks (R-IN) Rep. Ken Buck (R-CO) Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-AL) Rep. Earl L. ‘Buddy’ Carter (R-GA) Rep. Steve Chabot (R-OH) Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK) Rep. Doug Collins (R-GA) Rep. Chris Collins (R-NY) Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX) Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-ND) Rep. Rick Crawford (R-AR) Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL) Rep. Jeff Denham (R-CA) Rep. Ron DeSantis (R-FL) Rep. Scott DesJarlais, M.D. (R-TN) Rep. Sean Duffy (R-WI) Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-SC) Rep. Renee Ellmers (R-NC) Rep. Tom Emmer (R-MN) Rep. Blake Farenthold (R-TX) Rep. Stephen Fincher (R-TN) Rep. John C. Fleming, M.D. (R-LA) Rep. Bill Flores (R-TX) Rep. Trent Franks (R-AZ) Rep. Bob Gibbs (R-OH) Rep. Chris Gibson (R-NY) Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) Rep. Paul A. Gosar, D.D.S. (R-AZ) Rep. Tom Graves (R-GA) Rep. Sam Graves (R-MO) Rep. Morgan Griffith (R-VA) Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-WI) Rep. Brett Guthrie (R-KY) Rep. Richard Hanna (R-NY) Rep. Crescent Hardy (R-NV) Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-MO) Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) Rep. French Hill (R-AR) Rep. Richard Hudson (R-NY) Rep. Tim Huelskamp (R-KS) Rep. Will Hurd (R-TX) Rep. Lynn Jenkins (R-KS) Rep. Evan Jenkins (R-WV) Rep. Bill Johnson (R-OH) Rep. Sam Johnson (R-TX) Rep. Walter B. Jones (R-NC) Rep. Jim Jordan (R-OH) Rep. Trent Kelly (R-MS) Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA) Rep. Steve King (R-IA) Rep. Raúl R. Labrador (R-ID) Rep. Darin LaHood (R-IL) Rep. Doug LaMalfa (R-CA) Rep. Doug Lamborn (R-CO) Rep. Robert E. Latta (R-OH) Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-GA) Rep. Billy Long (R-MO) Rep. Mia Love (R-UT) Rep. Frank D. Lucas (R-OK) Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO) Rep. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY) Rep. Tom McClintock (R-CA) Rep. David B. McKinley, P.E. (R-WV) Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) Rep. Martha McSally (R-AZ) Rep. Mark Meadows (R-NC) Rep. Luke Messer (R-IN) Rep. Jeff Miller (R-FL) Rep. Candice Miller (R-MI) Rep. John Moolenaar (R-MI) Rep. Markwayne Mullin (R-OK) Rep. Mick Mulvaney (R-SC) Rep. Tim Murphy (R-PA) Rep. Randy Neugebauer (R-TX) Rep. Kristi Noem (R-SD) Rep. Devin Nunes (R-CA) Rep. Steven Palazzo (R-MS) Rep. Gary Palmer (R-AL) Rep. Steve Pearce (R-NM) Rep. Collin C. Peterson (D-MN) Rep. Robert Pittenger (R-NC) Rep. Mike Pompeo (R-KS) Rep. Bill Posey (R-FL) Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-TX) Rep. Tom Reed (R-NY) Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) Rep. Jim Renacci (R-OH) Rep. Reid Ribble (R-WI) Rep. Phil Roe, M.D. (R-TN) Rep. Harold Rogers (R-KY) Rep. Mike D. Rogers (R-AL) Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA) Rep. Todd Rokita (R-IN) Rep. Tom Rooney (R-FL) Rep. Keith Rothfus (R-PA) Rep. David Rouzer (R-NC) Rep. David Schweikert (R-AZ) Rep. Austin Scott (R-GA) Rep. Pete Sessions (R-TX) Rep. Mike Simpson (R-ID) Rep. Jason Smith (R-MO) Rep. Adrian Smith (R-NE) Rep. Lamar Smith (R-TX) Rep. Steve Stivers (R-OH) Rep. Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (R-PA) Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-TX) Rep. Dave Trott (R-MI) Rep. Michael R. Turner (R-OH) Rep. David G. Valadao (R-CA) Rep. Ann Wagner (R-MO) Rep. Tim Walberg (R-MI) Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR) Rep. Mark Walker (R-NC) Rep. Jackie Walorski (R-IN) Rep. Mimi Walters (R-CA) Rep. Randy Weber (R-TX) Rep. Brad Wenstrup (R-OH) Rep. Bruce Westerman (R-AR) Rep. Ed Whitfield (R-KY) Rep. Steve Womack (R-AR) Rep. Kevin Yoder (R-KS) Rep. Ted S. Yoho, DVM (R-FL) Rep. Don Young (R-AK) Rep. David Young (R-IA) Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-NY) Rep. Ryan Zinke (R-MT)
04.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today announced the appointment of Jamie Daniels as District Director for the Fourth Congressional District: “I am pleased to welcome Jamie Daniels to my congressional staff to serve the people of Washington’s Fourth Congressional District as District Director, leading my district operations,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Constituent services are the most important job of any congressional office, and I know that Jamie will apply her extensive professional experience and knowledge to assisting the people of Central Washington.” Prior to joining the Congressman’s office, Jamie was the Executive Director of the Washington Council of Police & Sheriffs. Jamie previously served as Chief of Staff for the WA State House Republicans and the Washington State Director of Citizens for a Sound Economy, a conservative economic think tank. A native of the Pacific Northwest, Jamie has over 30 years of government, political, and campaign experience. Jamie is a graduate of the University of Montana.
04.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on the release of Hanford funding levels proposed by the House Appropriations Committee Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, which has jurisdiction over Hanford appropriations, for Fiscal Year (FY) 2017. Tomorrow, the full House Appropriations Committee will hold a markup on this bill. Despite overall reductions in the Administration and the House budget requests for the Department of Energy’s Office of Environmental Management (EM) program, the House’s proposal provides full funding for the Office of River Protection (ORP), as well as an increase for the Richland Operations Office (RL) that is $38 million above the President’s FY2017 request: “I was encouraged by the restoration of funds that had been slated for cuts in the President’s budget request to the Richland Operations Office (RL),” said Rep. Newhouse. “These restored cuts will allow RL to keep cleanup work on track at contaminated waste sites and buildings along the Columbia River Corridor. The inclusion of full funding for the Office of River Protection (ORP) is critical to ensure work is able to progress on retrieving Hanford’s tank waste and preparing to feed an operational Waste Treatment Plant (WTP). I am also pleased that the bill provides funds to continue the Department of Energy’s statutorily-required activities for the Yucca Mountain license application. While the House request is an improvement over the Administration’s request, there is more work to be done. It is critical to continue to invest in cleanup efforts because in the long run, stop-and-start cleanup would cause needless delays and end up costing taxpayers even more. I am thankful to my colleague from Washington, Jaime Herrera Beutler, for her support for Hanford cleanup as a member of the Appropriations Committee. As the appropriations process continues in the House, I will continue to push for the best possible budget to prioritize the federal government’s cleanup obligations at Hanford.” Hanford Cleanup FY2017 by the Numbers DOE Office of Environmental Management FY2017 House Funding Level: $5,226,950,000 President’s FY2017 Request: $5,235,350,000 House Bill vs. President’s request: -$8,400,000 Richland Operations Office (RL) FY2017 House Funding Level: $754,758,000 President’s FY2017 Request: $716,811,000 House Bill vs. President’s request: +$37,947,000 Office of River Protection (ORP) FY2017 House Funding Level: $1,487,456,000 President’s FY2017 Request: $1,487,456,000
04.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Members of Congress Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Dave Reichert (R-WA), led a letter today to the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) and the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) encouraging the organizations to discuss options in order to prevent future port disruptions such as the 2014-2015 slowdown at West Coast ports. Based on recent public comments by ILWU President Robert McEllrath and PMA Chairman and CEO James McKenna, the Congressmen expressed optimism that the two organizations could work together to ensure the efficient movement of goods at U.S. ports. The Members of Congress wrote in the letter: “To be clear, because the workers, farmers, and businesses in our communities rely on the efficient movement of goods, we place great importance on the normal and functional operation of our ports. During the 2014-2015 disruption, farmers, manufacturers, and retailers across the western U.S. suffered hundreds of millions of dollars in damages because they could not get their goods to market. Foreign market share was lost, which not only hurt businesses trying to use the ports, but as you are aware, the shippers who transport goods, the workers who load and unload cargo, and the ports that rely on a steady stream of traffic were negatively impacted.” The Members continued in the letter: “Again, thank you for your early engagement on this issue that has serious implications for the economy of our region and the country as a whole. We hope to work with you as we continue our work in Congress to strengthen and increase freight mobility and develop proactive solutions to prevent future disruptions.” The letter was signed by Reps. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Mike Coffman (R-CO), Doug LaMalfa (R-CA), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Devin Nunes (R-CA), Amata Radewagen (AS), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), and Mike Simpson (R-ID). In August 2015, Reps. Newhouse and Reichert introduced H.R. 3433, the Protecting Orderly and Responsible Transit of Shipment (PORTS) Act to improve the process of future negotiations to reduce the threat of harmful economic impacts of disruptions at U.S. ports. In November, 2015, Rep. Newhouse introduced H.R. 3932 the Ensuring Continued Operations and No Other Major Incidents, Closures, or Slowdowns (ECONOMICS) Act to create new economic safeguards to prevent future port slowdowns. The full text of the letter is included below. April 15, 2016 Dear Mr. McEllrath and Mr. McKenna, We would like to express our great appreciation for recent comments made with regard to preventing future disruptions at ports where the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) and Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) are present. It is reassuring to know that your organizations appreciate the staggering impact that the 2014-2015 West Coast port disruptions had on shippers, workers, and port users, as well as the regional and national economy, and that you are committed to preventing a repeat of that devastating incident well in advance of the current contract expiration date on July 1, 2019. We understand that your organizations have been discussing options to prevent future disruptions in the event that a new contract is not finalized prior to the current contract’s expiration. We appreciate that you are already engaging on this difficult topic and encourage continued discussions with the goal of a thoughtful, forward-thinking approach aimed at preventing future disruptions. To be clear, because the workers, farmers, and businesses in our communities rely on the efficient movement of goods, we place great importance on the normal and functional operation of our ports. During the 2014-2015 disruption, farmers, manufacturers, and retailers across the western U.S. suffered hundreds of millions of dollars in damages because they could not get their goods to market. Foreign market share was lost, which not only hurt businesses trying to use the ports, but as you are aware, the shippers who transport goods, the workers who load and unload cargo, and the ports that rely on a steady stream of traffic were negatively impacted. Again, thank you for your early engagement on this issue that has serious implications for the economy of our region and the country as a whole. We hope to work with you as we continue our work in Congress to strengthen and increase freight mobility and develop proactive solutions to prevent future disruptions.
04.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA), released the following statement after joining Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Americans for Tax Reform, and other members of Congress during a press conference to urge colleagues in the Congress to approve H.R. 27, the Tax Code Termination Act. “At the height of tax season, millions of Americans are struggling to comply with a tax code that is overly-complex and burdensome for their families and businesses,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I urge my colleagues in Congress to approve this legislation to terminate the current system and foster a national debate for a simpler, fairer tax code that eases the burden on taxpayers and our economy.” Rep. Newhouse is a cosponsor of H.R. 27, which would sunset the current IRS tax code by December 31, 2019, and it calls on Congress to approve a new federal tax system by July of the same year. Click here to view the text of the legislation. In December, Rep. Newhouse voted for permanent tax relief for families and small businesses with the passage of H.R. 2029, the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act of 2015.
03.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives to mark the 10th anniversary of the Tri-City Regional Chamber of Commerce. CLICK HERE TO WATCH REP. NEWHOUSE RECOGNIZE TRI-CITY REGIONAL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE ON HOUSE FLOOR “I rise today to recognize the Tri-City Regional Chamber of Commerce on their 10-year anniversary celebration. This auspicious occasion marks the date that the Richland and the Tri-City area Chamber of Commerce merged to form the regional chamber in 2006. “The Tri-Cities is the fourth-largest metropolitan area in the state of Washington, situated at the confluence of the Columbia, Snake and Yakima Rivers. The beautiful Columbia Basin and 300 days of sunshine attract opportunities for agriculture, recreation and businesses. “The Tri-City Regional Chamber of Commerce represents nearly 1,200 diverse businesses, providing access to customers and a network for job creators. The Chamber provides visibility for partner companies and works to improve the economic climate of our region. The Chamber represents local leaders working to advance the local economy and the quality of life in the Tri-Cities. “With a motto of ‘Bolder, Brighter, Better,’ this advocacy group has had a tremendous positive impact attracting jobs in our community. It is my distinct pleasure to recognize and congratulate them on this milestone.”
03.18.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) announced that he will host a Land Management and Wildfire Preparedness Roundtable in Okanogan on Thursday, March 31st from 6:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. The roundtable is free and open to the public. “I am deeply concerned about the increasing frequency and severity of wildfires in our community,” said Congressman Newhouse. “I am committed to ensuring our public lands are managed properly, and that the federal government meets its obligations in the Pacific Northwest. I am pleased that Chairman Glenn Thompson will be joining me for this roundtable, and I invite members of the public to join us.” Event: Congressman Dan Newhouse to host free Land Management and Wildfire Preparedness Roundtable in Okanogan Date and Time: Thursday, March 31st 6:00 p.m. – 7:30 p.m. (Pacific) Location: Okanogan County Fairgrounds 175 Rodeo Trail Road, Okanogan, WA 98840 The Land Management and Wildfire Preparedness Roundtable panelists include: Congressman Glenn Thompson - Chairman Committee on Agriculture’s Subcommittee on Conservation and Forestry Peter Goldmark – Washington State Commissioner of Public Lands, Washington Department of Natural Resources Mike Williams - Forest Supervisor, Okanogan-Wenatchee National Forest T.J. Dargan - Federal Coordinating Officer, FEMA Region X
03.03.2016	Washington, DC – Today Reps. Dave Reichert (R-WA) and Dan Newhouse (R-WA) introduced legislation to authorize a key phase of the Yakima River Basin Integrated Water Resource Management Plan, an initiative to better accommodate the water needs of the agricultural community, conservationists, residents, and other stakeholders in the Yakima River Basin region. Reps. Reichert and Newhouse made the following statements after introducing the bill: “After years of conversations, I am proud that we have finally come together on a forward-thinking plan that will work to protect the future economic health of the Yakima Basin and the surrounding regions,” said Rep. Reichert. “Implementing this plan will give agricultural producers the confidence they need to continue operating and expanding in the area, while respecting the concerns of conservationists and local residents. I look forward to working further with Congressman Newhouse in urging our colleagues to move this legislation through Congress and to the President’s desk as quickly as possible. ” “I am proud to join with my colleague Congressman Reichert in this long-anticipated step forward for the Yakima Basin Plan as a national model for collaborative water infrastructure planning,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Meeting existing human and environmental needs requires updating current water supply infrastructure. In the Yakima Basin, agriculture communities have seen and felt the devastating impact of water shortages and drought conditions as water has become increasingly scarce. This legislation will improve water infrastructure, storage, and conservation, as well as the reliability of our water supply for irrigation and other out-of-stream uses. This will all be done in concert with rebuilding fish runs, improving stream flows, and protecting headwater areas. From farming and ranching, to manufacturing and municipal uses, to recreation and wildfire response, a reliable supply of water is an indispensable resource in the West. Now is the time to take collaborative action to secure resilient water supplies for our future and generations to come.” Background: The Yakima River Basin is one of the leading agricultural regions in Washington State and throughout the country. The orchardists, wine grape growers, and other members of the agricultural community inject approximately $3.2 billion into Washington’s economy and support countless jobs in the area. However, the demand for water in the region currently exceeds the resources available, especially during times of drought, which have hit the state especially hard in the past few years. As a result, water use has been restricted for junior water rights holders - or individuals who obtained water rights in 1905 or later – during times of shortages. With researchers predicting that drought seasons will only become more common and get worse as snowpack in the mountains continues to decline, action needs to be taken so that stakeholders in the Yakima Basin can continue operating without having to worry about whether or not they will be able to water their crops or their backyard garden. As the nation has seen with extreme water problems in California, we must be proactive and have a viable plan in place should intense drought hit Washington. After years of tough negotiations, the Yakima River Basin Plan offers a solution that will give water users more certainty, while also recognizing the concerns of conservationists and the various stakeholders in the Yakima Basin. Specifically, the Yakima River Basin Plan would: Provide greater water supply reliability for farmers and communities. Secure the water that communities need to meet current and future demand. Protect over 200,000 acres of currently unprotected forest, shrub steppe, and river habitat. Enhance habitat along the Yakima River and its tributaries. Implement water marketing and banking so that water is more easily delivered when and where needed. Build fish passage to allow salmon, steelhead, and bull trout to travel throughout the basin.
02.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after voting in support of House passage of H.R. 2406, the Sportsmen’s Heritage and Recreational Enhancement (SHARE) Act, which is a compilation of several bills that would improve federal land management and protect public access and opportunities for hunting, fishing, and recreational shooting. An amendment included in the SHARE Act by Rep. Newhouse requires the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) to publish a notice in the Federal Register, along with a justification, for the closure of any public road on Forest System lands. The SHARE Act would also protect Second Amendment rights and the use of traditional ammunition and fishing tackle. “I am proud to join my colleagues in approving this commonsense legislation to protect access to public lands and improve transparency,” said Rep. Newhouse. “These lands belong to the people, and taxpayers should have the opportunity to enjoy the land their tax dollars support. This legislation also improves federal land management by streamlining the sale of federal lands and requiring the U.S. Forest Service to provide justification whenever any public road is closed. No bureaucrat should arbitrarily block access to public roads. Federal agencies must be held accountable to notify the public and justify any road closures that have an outsize impact on local communities, residents, and recreational groups who rely on access to those roads.” For a summary of provisions in H.R. 2406, the Sportsmen’s Heritage and Recreational Enhancement (SHARE) Act, click here. CLICK HERE TO WATCH REP. NEWHOUSE SPEAK IN FAVOR OF SPORTSMEN’S BILL Transcript: “Mr. Speaker, the SHARE Act is an important bipartisan package of proposals that will promote greater opportunities for hunting, fishing, and outdoor recreation, as well as, safeguard the rights of hunters, anglers, and recreational shooters. While similar bills have passed the House in the past two Congresses, the Senate has failed to adopt them, making this legislation long overdue. This is especially true when considering the current Administration’s ongoing assault on the Second Amendment as well as their restrictions on access to federal land. This includes restricting hunting and shooting on federal lands, where many people go to participate in these time-honored, American activities. “The Congressional Sportsmen Foundation recently stated that roughly 37 million American sportsmen and women spend over $90 billion annually on outdoor sport activities – highlighting the important economic impact this legislation will have on small businesses across the country that comprise our recreational industries. “Mr. Speaker, these outdoor activities are deeply ingrained in America’s heritage and culture, with the values they instill passed down from generation to generation. In fact, according to a 2013 Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation report, hunting, fishing, and shooting are growing in popularity throughout the country, with almost 40 million people over the age of 16 hunting or fishing in the United States. However, over the past seven years we have seen the federal government continually find ways to block law-abiding Americans from exercising this most fundamental right. “People all across my state of Central Washington are avid hunters, anglers, and outdoorsmen. Many Americans, especially in the West, look to our vast federal lands to hunt, and to fish, and to shoot. Unfortunately, over the past few years we have seen federal agencies like the U.S. Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management prevent or impede access to federal lands, which should otherwise be available for these purposes. Lack of access to acceptable areas to participate in these activities is often one of the main reasons why sportsmen and women stop participating in these traditional American pastimes. Ensuring the public has reliable access to our nation’s federal lands must remain a priority for this Congress. “Mr. Speaker, we should be fostering and growing participation in outdoor sporting activities – rather than trying to create regulatory barriers that drive Americans away from them – which instill important lifelong values and principles. These include responsibility, firearm safety, and conservation, as well as patience, discipline, respect for wildlife, and most of all an appreciation of our country’s rich natural heritage and beautiful national parks, forests, and vast wilderness areas. “H.R. 2406 is critical to protecting our way of life and ensuring all Americans have the ability to enjoy outdoor recreation and develop a profound appreciation for our country’s marvelous natural landscapes. This legislation is comprised of a number of provisions that will help provide future generations of Americans with access to our country’s federal lands for outdoor recreation, sport shooting, hunting, and fishing. The measure will also reaffirm the Second Amendment rights of Americans to lawfully carry firearms on federal lands. Additionally, it will help prevent federal overreach, eliminate regulatory impediments, and protect against the promulgation of new, onerous regulations that impede access or restrict lawful activities on federal lands. Sportsmen are natural stewards of public lands and greatly contribute to habitat and wildlife conservation, so I find it difficult to understand the rationale behind many of these federal decisions. “Mr. Speaker, the SHARE Act also includes legislation I introduced, the Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act, or FLTFA, which authorizes BLM to sell surplus federal lands to states, localities, or private entities that can be put then to economically-beneficial use. Since its initial enactment, the FLTFA reduced federal land ownership by more than 9,000 acres over the course of a decade, while also enhancing access for hunting, fishing, and shooting on these federal lands. This critical program brings a commonsense approach to land transactions and helps streamline land ownership patterns – all without spending taxpayer funds or adding to the surplus of federally-owned property. “Additionally, the bill includes the Recreational Lands Self-Defense Act, legislation that protects the ability of gun owners to exercise their Second Amendment rights when they are legally camping, hunting, and/or fishing on property owned by the Army Corps of Engineers. Like many in Central Washington, I grew up responsibly exercising the right to bear arms, and I am a longstanding advocate for the protection of those rights, which is why I was proud to cosponsor this bill. “In my district, access to federal lands is of paramount importance, and the SHARE Act will ensure that sportsmen, outdoorsmen, and all Americans wishing to enjoy our treasured federal parks and forests have the ability to do so. For this reason I have also introduced an amendment to the SHARE Act that would require the U.S. Forest Service to publish a notice in the Federal Register, along with a justification, for the closure of any public road in our forests. In Central Washington and across the country, the Forest Service has closed public roads with no prior notification – preventing access to public areas in our region’s National Forests. Often these blocked roadways have been in use for decades and many locals residents rely on them for both every day activities, as well as for recreational purposes. The first indication of a closure should not come when an individual is faced with an impassable roadway, but rather through adequate public notice from the Forest Service, which my amendment would provide. Our country has a deep and longstanding tradition of using federal land for outdoor and recreational activities – and protecting the ability of Americans to use our abundant federal lands for these purposes must remain one of our top priorities in Congress, which is why I am committed to working with my colleagues in the House and the Senate to advance this much-needed legislation. “Mr. Speaker, for generations Americans have passed down these values to their children and to their grandchildren, which have deeply engrained hunting, fishing, and recreational shooting in America’s heritage and cultural fabric. As I said, growing up in Central Washington I experienced the importance of these values firsthand and they continue to play an important role in my life to this very day. The rule we consider here today provides for consideration of legislation that will protect these values, increase opportunities for hunters, anglers, and shooters, and ensure that future generations of Americans have equal opportunity to access and enjoy our nation’s vast public lands. This is a good, straightforward rule, allowing for the consideration of a critically important measure. I support the Rule’s adoption and I urge my colleagues to support the Rule as well as the underlying bill.”
02.18.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) and Denny Heck (D-WA) were joined by U.S. Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Dave Reichert (D-WA), Adam Smith (D-WA), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Susan DelBene (D-WA) and Dan Newhouse (R-WA) in urging the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to protect Medicare Advantage and Part D plans from further payment cuts in a letter sent today. Medicare Advantage is now making a difference in the health and quality of life of nearly 30 percent of seniors and individuals with disabilities in Washington, with the number of recipients choosing these plans increasing from approximately 250,000 in 2010 to nearly 360,000 in 2015. The text of the letter follows, and a PDF of the original letter is available here: Dear Acting Administrator Slavitt, As CMS develops the preliminary Medicare Advantage and Part D program policies for 2017, we urge you to minimize disruptions to beneficiaries by avoiding further payment cuts to Medicare Advantage. Protecting this program will maintain stable coverage options for the hundreds of thousands of Medicare beneficiaries in Washington state that choose Medicare Advantage. Medicare Advantage continues to be an incredibly popular option for Washington seniors and individuals with disabilities because of the high quality, innovative and coordinated care they receive through these plans. Due to seniors' overwhelming satisfaction with the Medicare Advantage program, enrollment has grown steadily in Washington over the past five years. Out of the approximately 1.2 million individuals eligible for Medicare in Washington, the number of beneficiaries choosing Medicare Advantage over traditional fee-for-service, has increased from almost 250,000 in 2010 to nearly 360,000 in 2015. Medicare Advantage is now making a difference in the health and quality of life of nearly 30 percent of seniors and individuals with disabilities in Washington. Medicare Advantage plans have a long history of focusing on prevention and early detection of chronic diseases as part of a patient-centered approach to care. They also provide a critical health care safety net for thousands of beneficiaries in Washington with low incomes or complex health needs. Approximately 25,000 Medicare beneficiaries who choose Medicare Advantage in the state are enrolled in Special Needs Plans, which are specifically designed to address the needs of these financially vulnerable individuals as well as those who have multiple chronic conditions. We believe it is critically important to preserve and protect Washington seniors’ option of choosing the best Medicare plan to meet their needs. We hope you will strengthen and ensure stability in the Medicare Advantage program, for the hundreds of thousands of seniors in our state counting on the continued availability of their Medicare Advantage plans.
02.16.2016	SUNNYSIDE, WA – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today honored the student winners of the Fourth Congressional District App Challenge. Cinthia Santiago Villanueva and Esmeralda Lopez, students at Harrison Middle School, won the challenge with an app they designed called the Agricultural Job Finder. “Cinthia and Esmeralda’s Agriculture Job Finder app design uses technology to connect agriculture workers with potential jobs. These young innovators applied critical STEM skills to come up with a creative and practical design that fills a real-world need. I congratulate Cinthia and Esmeralda and look forward to their continued educational success.” Click here to view Cinthia Santiago-Villanueva and Esmeralda Lopez’s app demonstration video. The winners’ app will be featured on a display in the U.S. Capitol building. The Congressional App Challenge was created in 2013 because Congress recognized that Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education skills are essential for economic growth and innovation, and that the U.S. has been falling behind on these fronts. According to the U.S. Department of Commerce, STEM occupations are projected to grow by 17% between 2008 and 2018, compared to 9.8% growth for non-STEM occupations. According to some estimates, the U.S. may be short as many as 3 million high-skilled workers by 2018. To maintain American competitiveness, it is crucial that the U.S. industry invest in our youth now and help them acquire necessary STEM-based skills. The CAC highlights and encourages students to pursue those skills.
02.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved H.R. 3442, the Debt Management and Fiscal Responsibility Act, which included an amendment introduced by Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Rep. Steve Stivers (R-OH), and Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-AL). The Debt Management and Fiscal Responsibility Act would require the Secretary of the Treasury to appear before Congress and submit a report on the general status of the nation’s debt and solutions to control the national debt in advance of any request to raise the debt ceiling. The amendment by Reps. Newhouse, Goodlatte, Stivers, and Byrne directs the Secretary of the Treasury to explain in the report whether the President recommends that Congress adopt a balanced budget amendment to control the accumulation of future debt. “As our national debt blows past $19 trillion, the American people have the right to know whether this or any future Administration is serious about reining in the national debt,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Securing the fiscal future of our children and grandchildren demands a realistic assessment of our skyrocketing national debt and solutions such as a balanced budget amendment. Any request to raise the debt limit should hold the Administration accountable for an effective approach to reduce the national debt.” Congressman Goodlatte: “The bleak fiscal future we are preparing to pass on to our children and grandchildren is unsustainable and irresponsible. Every Congress since 2007, I have introduced a Balanced Budget Amendment to require Congress to rein in the runaway spending we are slapping on our future generations. This amendment will force the president to take a stand on whether to continue to pursue a reckless path of increasing debt while opposing this bipartisan solution.” “We owe it to future generations to get federal spending under control and to pay down our debt,” Congressman Stivers said. “Endorsing a Balanced Budget amendment would demonstrate a commitment from the administration to fiscal discipline. The future of our economy and our national security depends upon it.” “The federal government shouldn’t be able to spend more than it takes in. Families can’t do that. Businesses can’t do that. States can’t do that. That’s why we need to pass a balanced budget amendment that requires Washington to live within its means. This commonsense amendment would require the President to explain why he does or does not support a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution when proposing an increase in the debt ceiling. If we don’t get serious about reducing spending, we will never get our nation back on the right track.” – Congressman Bradley Byrne (R-AL) Click here to watch Rep. Newhouse’s floor speech on the amendment.
02.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Rep. Collin Peterson (D-MN) led 52 other Members to introduce H.R. 4520, a bipartisan resolution recognizing the legacy of Justin Smith Morrill, the founder of the land-grant university system, by posthumously awarding him the Congressional Gold Medal. “As a farmer and graduate of Washington State University, I am personally grateful, along with the millions of men and women who have attended land-grant universities, for the legacy of the Honorable Justin Smith Morrill,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Morrill was a visionary statesman whose work provided millions with access to higher education across our country. His many contributions to the fabric of the American education system and culture deserve the distinction of a Congressional Gold Medal. Justin Smith Morrill’s many accomplishments will continue to inspire Americans for generations to come.” “The land-grant university system established by Justin Smith Morrill plays an important role in agricultural research, extension and educational programs. Through land-grant universities, researchers have been able to help farmers increase productivity, prevent plant and animal disease, improve human nutrition and health, and discover and utilize new technologies. I am pleased to honor Justin Smith Morrill’s legacy,” Peterson said. Background: The Honorable Justin Smith Morrill (April 14, 1810 – December 28, 1898), the son of a blacksmith and farmer, was born in Strafford, Vermont. He prospered as a merchant and businessman in his early years and served in public office the remainder of his life. Morrill was elected to six terms in the U.S. House of Representatives (1855-1867) and six terms in the United States Senate (1867-1898), making him the longest serving Member of Congress in the 19th Century. During his tenure, he chaired the House Committee on Ways and Means, the Senate Committee on Finance, and the Senate Committee on Public Buildings and Grounds. In Congress, he authored his namesake, the Morrill Act of 1862 which created the land-grant university system. Today, land-grant and other public universities award nearly 1 million degrees annually and perform more than $37 billion in research. In 1890, he authored the second Morrill Act, which created historically black land-grant universities (that recently celebrated their 125th anniversary). As the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Buildings and Grounds, he served as the principle advocate for financing and constructing the Thomas Jefferson Building of the Library of Congress and planned the location of the U.S. Supreme Court Building. He also raised funds to complete the unfinished Washington Monument and advocated for the Smithsonian Institution throughout his service in Congress. For the text of the resolution, click here. Introduced by Reps. Newhouse and Peterson, additional cosponsors include: 1. Rep. Ralph Abraham (R-LA) 2. Rep. Rick Allen (R-GA) 3. Rep. Brad Ashford (D-NE) 4. Rep. Joyce Beatty (D-OH) 5. Rep. Dan Benishek (R-MI) 6. Rep. Mike Bishop (R-MI) 7. Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) 8. Rep. Ken Buck (R-CO) 9. Rep. Cheri Bustos (D-IL) 10. Rep. William Lacy Clay (D-MO) 11. Rep. Doug Collins (R-GA) 12. Rep. Michael Conaway (R-TX) 13. Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) 14. Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL) 15. Rep. Suzan DelBene (D-WA) 16. Rep. Jeff Denham (R-CA) 17. Rep. Marcia Fudge (D-OH) 18. Rep. Bob Gibbs (R-OH) 19. Rep. Christopher Gibson (R-NY) 20. Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) 21. Rep. Gwen Graham (D-FL) 22. Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-MO) 23. Rep. Alcee Hastings (D-FL) 24. Rep. Will Hurd (R-TX) 25. Rep. Lynn Jenkins (R-KS) 26. Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) 27. Rep. Trent Kelly (R-MS) 28. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) 29. Rep. Doug LaMalfa (R-CA) 30. Rep. Frank Lucas (R-OK) 31. Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO) 32. Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM) 33. Rep. James P. McGovern (D-MA) 34. Rep. Ann Kuster (D-NH) 35. Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) 36. Rep. Jeff Miller (R-FL) 37. Rep. Randy Neugebauer (R-TX) 38. Rep. Rick Nolan (D-MN) 39. Rep. Steve Pearce (D-NM) 40. Rep. Mark Pocan (D-WI) 41. Rep. Phil Roe (R-TN) 42. Rep. David Rouzer (R-NC) 43. Rep. Austin Scott (R-GA) 44. David Scott (D-GA) 45. Rep. Louise Slaughter (D-NY) 46. Rep. Jason Smith (R-MO) 47. Rep. Glenn Thompson (R-PA) 48. Rep. Filemon Vela (D-TX) 49. Rep. Jackie Walorski (R-IN) 50. Rep. Timothy Walz (D-MN) 51. Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT) 52. Rep. Ted Yoho (R-FL)
02.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following an announcement that the REC Silicon plant in Moses Lake will shut down production, U.S. Senators Murray and Cantwell, and U.S. Congressman Dan Newhouse (WA-04), today called on trade representatives to end the solar trade war between the U.S. and China. No workers will be laid off at this time—they will instead shift to focus on maintenance. “Washington state workers and businesses need certainty to compete, which is why I will continue to urge both sides to resolve this dispute as quickly as possible,” said Senator Murray. “We need a settlement that covers both Chinese solar panels and U.S. polysilicon in order to support industries in both countries and the transition to a clean energy economy. This is too important for workers and our local economy to wait any longer.” “Ending this trade dispute is important—not only to saving hundreds of Moses Lake jobs, but also to maintaining the competitiveness of U.S. polysilicon manufacturers that are critical to growing the American solar industry,” said Cantwell, the ranking member on the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. “I will continue doing everything I can to press the U.S. and Chinese trade teams to identify a quick and effective resolution to both the solar panel and polysilicon disputes.” “This is an urgent matter for workers in Moses Lake, and it is imperative that the Chinese Ministry of Commerce and the U.S. Trade Representative work together to resolve the trade standoff with China involving U.S.-produced polysilicon,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I will continue to work to urge a negotiated resolution to this trade impasse.” The U.S. and China are engaged in an ongoing dispute over the trade of polysilicon, which is used to make solar panels. China is the world's leading purchaser of solar-grade polysilicon, and the ongoing dispute is keeping U.S. polysilicon manufacturers, like REC Silicon, out of the market. The Senators recently met with Liu Danyang, the Chinese Deputy Director General for Trade Remedy Bureau of Ministry of Commerce, and other Chinese trade representatives to help resolve the dispute. REC Silicon employs approximately 720 workers in Moses Lake and is one of the world’s largest producers of polysilicon for the solar energy industry.
02.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) was presented this week with the 2015 National Wheat Advocate Award by the National Association of Wheat Growers (NAWG). The Wheat Advocate Award is given annually to members of Congress who have demonstrated outstanding support for the wheat industry. Rep. Newhouse was presented with the award during the Wheat Industry Winter Conference in Washington, D.C. by Brett Blankenship, a Washtucna, WA wheat grower and president of NAWG. "Representative Newhouse has been one of the strongest champions for the wheat industry. We appreciate his efforts for the advancement of wheat growers across the nation," said NAWG President Brett Blankenship. "We are thankful for his efforts in progressing trade legislation, supporting Trade Promotion Authority, and for strong support for keeping our export channels open." “Washington State wheat growers have earned the distinction as top U.S. producers for domestic and international markets,” said Rep. Newhouse. “As a third-generation farmer and former state director of agriculture, I am honored by this recognition as an advocate in Congress for our nation’s wheat growers. I will continue to advocate for open markets and for policies at the federal level that support wheat growers in our state and nation.” Rep. Dan Newhouse is presented with the 2015 National Wheat Advocate Award by National Association of Wheat Growers (NAWG) President Brett Blankenship (right) and Kevin Klein, Washington Association of Wheat Growers (WAWG) Membership Chair (left) According to the most recent state agriculture survey, Central Washington devotes 832,406 acres to producing wheat, and wheat is the most valuable crop in Adams County, WA.
02.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today released the following statement on his vote to override President Obama’s veto of H.R. 3762, the Restoring American's Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act to repeal major portions of the President’s health law and to prohibit federal funding for Planned Parenthood: “I was proud to support putting a bill—for the first time ever—on the President’s desk that repeals Obamacare and defunds Planned Parenthood,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The President’s veto ignored the will of the American people who want his health care law repealed. Today’s vote to override that veto shows that with a new Republican president, majorities in both houses of Congress will be able to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act and suspend taxpayer support for the nation’s largest abortion provider. I will support continuing constitutional efforts to defend the lives of unborn children and restore a patient-centered health care system.” H.R. 3762 was passed in January by a vote of 240-181 in the House and 52-47 in the Senate. President Obama vetoed the legislation on January 8, 2016. In order to override a veto, a two-thirds majority of the House must vote against the veto, and the Senate requires a majority of 67.
02.01.2016	Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) announced that he has nominated 16 students across Central Washington for consideration to attend U.S. military academies including West Point, the Naval Academy, and the Air Force Academy. The nominations followed an interview process that included Rep. Newhouse’s military academy advisory board, and the final determination for admittance will be made by the respective academies. The honor of attending a service academy comes with the obligation and commitment to serve in the military for a minimum of five years upon graduation. “Serving in the U.S. military is one of the highest callings any citizen can aspire to achieve,” said Rep. Newhouse. “These young men and women stand out for their academic accomplishments, character, and desire to serve their nation in the Armed Forces. I wish each applicant the very best as they pursue their goal to serve our nation in the Armed Forces.” West Point Nominees Cole Deaver of Moses Lake Cole is a senior at Moses Lake High School and the son of Thomas and Tammie Tufte. Ivan Lancaster of Selah Ivan is a senior at La Salle High School and the son of Craig and Kirsten Lancaster. Charles Landefield of Kennewick Charles is a senior at Southridge High School and the son of John and Jodi Landefield. William “Jack” Pickett of Yakima William is a senior at West Valley High School and the son of Bill and Laura Pickett. Clayton Porcaro of Richland Clayton is a senior at Hanford High School and the son of Paul and Melissa Porcaro. U.S. Naval Academy Nominees Nicolas Fraga of Richland Nicholas is a senior at Hanford High School and the son of Carlos and Trish Fraga. Alexandria Fredrickson of Richland Alexandria is a senior at Hanford High School and the daughter of John and Suzetta Frederickson. Seth King of Pasco Seth is a senior at Hanford High School and the son of Dale and Mary King. Robert Leam of Richland Robert is a graduate of Richland High School and currently serving in the U.S. Naval Reserves. Robert is the son of Julian and Elaine Leam. U.S. Air Force Academy Nominees Carson Bergstrom of Pasco Carson is a senior at Pasco High School and is the son of Daniel and Christina Bergstrom. Heather Carbon of Moses Lake Heather is a senior at Moses Lake High School and the daughter of Carl and Susan Carbon. Austin Dreyer of West Richland Austin is a senior at Hanford High School and the son of Christopher and Pam Dreyer. Nicolas Fraga of Richland Nicholas is a senior at Hanford High School and the son of Carlos and Trish Fraga. Alexandria Fredrickson of Richland Alexandria is a senior at Hanford High School and the daughter of John and Suzetta Frederickson. Joseph Gurnard of East Wenatchee Joseph is a senior at Eastmont High School and the son of Joseph and Tami Gurnard. Jonathan Imperial of Wapato Jonathan is a senior at A.C. Davis High School and son of Manuel and Barbara Imperial. Keith Roberts of Yakima Keith is a senior at Dwight D. Eisenhower High School and the son of Hector and Frances Roberts. Lakota Wills of Richland Lakota is a senior at Richland High School and the son of Jerrell and Jamie Wills. Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointment to four of the five U.S. service academies: U.S. Military Academy (USMA), West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, CO; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, NY. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy (USCGA), New London, CT, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. For more information or to obtain an application packet for next year’s nominations, click here or contact Rep. Newhouse’s Tri-Cities office at 3100 George Washington Way #135 Richland, (509) 713-7374.
01.20.2016	YAKIMA – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on the passing of Jim Trull, manager of the Sunnyside Valley Irrigation District: "Jim Trull was recognized and sought out in the Lower Valley, our state, and throughout the western United States as an expert who understood complicated western water law. He was my go-to source on many water and irrigation issues, and his leadership brought people together on critical solutions. Jim was also a great friend of many years. Carol and I extend our condolences to Gwyn and their family on their loss.”
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s final State of the Union address: “American freedoms must be defended from those who threaten them, whether by ISIS, Iran, or North Korea. Our enemies abroad have become more dangerous under this Administration. Just as the President was readying his speech, news reports that Iranian military forces have detained two U.S. Navy craft and their crews offer evidence that our enemies no longer fear or respect our leaders. These Americans must be released immediately. Iran’s provocations are the latest and most alarming in a series of hostile actions by the Iranian regime, including testing illegal ballistic missiles and continuing to hold American citizens hostage. When this Administration fails to respond with resolve when red lines are crossed, it emboldens our enemies and endangers Americans everywhere. “The President touted his flawed nuclear deal with Iran, but he did not even acknowledge the ten American sailors who remain in Iranian custody. “Americans are also anxious to know that the President has a concrete plan to defeat ISIS and secure our homeland. After today’s ISIS terrorist attack in Istanbul and ISIS-linked attacks in Paris, San Bernardino, and Philadelphia, Americans want to know how their government is taking action to keep them safe. We did not hear that from the President tonight. “To any listener of President Obama’s last State of the Union speech, one would think that the majority of Americans agree with his rosy assessment that the nation is on the right track. In fact, two-thirds of Americans believe the country is heading down the wrong track. While Americans do not doubt the greatness of our country, they are uncertain about the willingness of their leaders to stand for what is right. “I agree with President Obama that America is full of promise. I believe our greatness as a nation stems from our watchfulness for the values of personal freedom and limited government. We cannot take those values for granted, and we must remain committed to defending those values—and Americans— forcefully at home and abroad. “Before this President’s tenure is complete, Congress will act to offer solutions that make us safer and more secure.”
01.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on President Obama’s veto of H.R. 3762, the Restoring American's Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act, which was passed by Congress to repeal major portions of Obamacare and to prohibit federal funding for Planned Parenthood. “I am disappointed that the President has chosen to disregard the wishes of Americans, who after years of suffering bureaucratic glitches, tax hikes, rising premiums, and cancelled plans have rejected his top-down healthcare law,” said Congressman Newhouse. “The President’s veto has not changed the fact that this is a failed law. Americans deserve a healthcare system that works. They deserve a system where taxpayers are not forced to support Planned Parenthood’s taking of innocent lives. They deserve a President who respects the will of the American people. “I intend to vote to override this veto, and I hope my colleagues in Congress will join me. I will continue to fight to protect the lives of unborn children and to restore a patient-centered healthcare system.” In order to override a veto, a two-thirds majority of the House must vote against it, and the Senate requires a majority of 67.
01.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after supporting House passage of a Senate amendment to H.R. 3762, the Restoring American's Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act. This legislation repeals major portions of Obamacare and prohibits federal funding for Planned Parenthood. This legislation uses the budget reconciliation process, which allows legislation to move through the Senate without the threat of a filibuster. “Americans have rejected Obamacare, and today the House has acted with the Senate to dismantle the president’s failed law.” said Congressman Newhouse. “Under Obamacare, Washington families and businesses have faced higher taxes, insurance premiums, deductibles, as well as the loss of insurance plans and access to physicians they trust and want to continue to see. This legislation places the repeal of key Obamacare provisions on the president’s desk for the first time ever. The President must be held accountable for a government-knows-best approach to healthcare that has been roundly rejected by Central Washingtonians. The reconciliation legislative tool allows repeal of significant portions of Obamacare, including burdensome taxes, the individual and employer mandate penalties, health exchange subsidies, and Medicaid expansion provisions. This repeal would save taxpayers more than $500 billion over the next ten years and pave the way to replace Obamacare with a conservative, free-market alternative. “Additionally, this legislation supports the lives of the most innocent: the unborn. No taxpayer should be forced to support the gruesome activity as shown in the undercover videos released earlier this year. Today’s bill protects the sanctity of human life by ending taxpayer funding for Planned Parenthood while directing funds to community health centers that support women’s health. Taxpayers should not be forced to have their hard earned money support the nation’s largest abortion provider when there are many alternative community health clinics that support women’s health without offending the conscience of the American people. We cannot turn our backs on the unborn. “I have fought to defend innocent life and dismantle Obamacare, piece-by-piece if necessary, and today’s vote is a historic step in advancing those efforts.” Click here for a one-page summary of the Senate amendment to H.R. 3762, the Restoring American's Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act.
01.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today announced the addition of Jessica McCarthy to the 4th District Congressional office staff. Jessica will serve as a District Representative, primarily serving Okanogan and Douglas counties “I am pleased to announce that Jessica will be serving the constituents of the 4th District in Okanogan and Douglas counties,” said Congressman Newhouse. “Jessica’s years of service to Rep. Joel Kretz underscore that she understands the needs and priorities of North Central Washington. I look forward to Jessica bringing her wealth of experience to serving the people of Washington’s 4th District.” Prior to joining Congressman Newhouse’s staff, Jessica served for eight years as Executive Legislative Assistant to State Representative and Republican Deputy Leader Joel Kretz, who serves Washington’s 7th Legislative District. Jessica was born and raised in Okanogan County and has a strong small business and agricultural background. Jessica currently lives in Twisp, where she and her husband Charles raise their two young children. Jessica earned a B.A. in Accounting from Western Governors University.
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s executive actions on gun control: “Time and again, this president’s unilateral actions have chipped away at limits on executive authority and the lawmaking responsibility that belongs solely to Congress. Circumventing the people’s elected representatives in Congress in order to restrict the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding Americans will do nothing to improve safety. The president may not like it, but Americans’ right to keep and bear arms is protected by the Constitution that he and every lawmaker is sworn to uphold. Today’s unilateral executive actions would not have prevented recent attacks, including those that took place in San Bernardino, where the nation’s strictest gun control laws are already in place. I will continue to oppose any attempt to undermine Americans’ constitutional right to arm and defend themselves or the principle of the separation of powers.”
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA), released the following statement after the House approved H.R. 2029, the Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act on a vote of 316-113. Yesterday, the House approved the tax relief provisions of the end-of-year agreement. “While this bill is far from perfect, it advances Central Washington’s priorities,” said Rep. Newhouse. “It keeps the federal government accountable for meeting the legal and moral obligation to continue clean-up at Hanford. I fought hard to ensure that this bill contains critical resources to fully fund Hanford clean-up through the next fiscal year. “Additionally, this legislation provides a key repeal of the Country of Origin of Labeling (COOL) requirements. If COOL is not repealed, Washington farmers stand to face tens of millions of dollars in retaliatory tariffs by Mexico and Canada, causing severe economic harm to agriculture in our state. “After yet another catastrophic wildfire season for Central Washington and the West, this legislation provides a much-needed 50-percent increase in wildfire response and prevention funding. It also includes resources for the reduction of hazardous fuels in national forests, with agencies directed to work with State and local governments to prioritize the prompt removal of dead and downed trees in drought-stricken regions. “Over the last several weeks we have been confronted by the growing threat of terrorism at home and abroad, and this legislation provides vital funding for our military and intelligence community to ensure we can combat threats to our nation. I am also pleased this legislation provides new safeguards for our national security by reforming the visa waiver program to provide tighter screening for travel to the U.S. It also prohibits funding for transfers of Guantanamo detainees to the U.S. or its territories, keeping them from our shores. We must provide necessary resources to secure the homeland and fight the global scourge of ISIS, and this bill gives our troops the critical tools they need to keep Americans safe.”
12.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA), released the following statement after the House approved H.R. 2029, the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act of 2015 on a vote of 318-109. “Today’s passage of a bipartisan, pro-growth tax extender package is a huge win for families and small businesses in Central Washington,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Before today, Washingtonians were at a disadvantage compared to residents of states who are able to claim a federal tax deduction for state income taxes. Each year, Washingtonians had to wait at the whims of D.C. to know if they would be allowed a federal tax deduction for what they spend on state and local sales tax. Making the state and local sales tax deduction permanent when filing federal taxes promotes fairness in the tax code and allows individuals and families in Washington to keep more of the money they earn. In 2012, the average Washington taxpayer saved $602 from this federal deduction. This deduction will permanently reduce the tax burden on Washington families and give them the certainty they need to plan ahead financially. “The agreement passed today also helps small businesses by blocking scheduled tax hikes from ever taking effect. Small businesses will now be able to rely on a permanent tax deduction of up to $500,000 on assets such as heavy machinery or office equipment. This provision will promote investment and give small businesses the long-term tax certainty they need. “Together, these permanent deductions will go a long way to create fairness and protect families and small businesses from tax increases. I am proud to support permanent tax relief that boosts economic growth and creates jobs, injecting money into our economy instead of sending it to bureaucrats in D.C.” H.R. 2029, the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act of 2015 makes permanent over 20 tax relief provisions, extends for 5 years or 2 years a number of other tax relief provisions that expired at the end of calendar year 2014, provides for a 2-year moratorium on the medical device tax, and includes a number of additional tax policy changes Click here for a Section-By-Section Summary of the PATH Act
12.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), and Dave Reichert (R-WA) introduced a bipartisan bill to expand key disaster assistance to rural communities in Washington state and across the country. The Individual Assistance Improvement Act of 2015 would increase opportunities to access the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Individual Assistance Program. The Individual Assistance Program provides housing and unemployment assistance, counseling, and other personal support to families and individuals in the wake of a disaster. However, the current formula FEMA uses to evaluate damages and send disaster declaration recommendations to the President frequently leaves smaller towns and communities out. The assistance cannot be utilized without a federal disaster declaration. In Washington state, rural communities have been impacted by wildfires this year that burned more than one million acres and left 46 families without temporary housing. On the Olympic Peninsula severe storms have triggered flooding and mudslides that have caused significant damage to residential property. “Two years of historic catastrophic wildfires have destroyed hundreds of homes and burned 1.4 million acres, despite this the residents of Central Washington have repeatedly been denied access to Individual Assistance aid without an adequate explanation,” said Representative Newhouse. “Current rules for disaster aid prioritize relief efforts to areas of concentration, or urban areas. This means even after a major federal disaster is declared all too often residents in devastated rural communities are left to fend for themselves. No family facing the aftermath of a wildfire, or any natural disaster, should be denied federal aid simply because they live in a rural community. This legislation will revise eligibility criteria, providing much-needed clarity and objective standards for the formula used for federal assistance. I thank my colleagues, Rep. Kilmer and Rep. Reichert, for their efforts on this critical legislation to ensure rural communities are not unfairly excluded from federal aid.” “From wildfires to mudslides, natural disasters cause significant damage to residents and businesses across our state,” said Representative Kilmer. “Folks who have to pick up the pieces after their property is damaged need a helping hand. They shouldn’t have to worry about bureaucratic and technical hurdles to getting back on their feet. This bipartisan bill ensures that rural communities in Washington state don’t get left out when we need to rebuild after disasters strike.” “Wildfires affect both urban and rural areas the same, they consume whatever stands in their path,” said Representative Reichert. “Communities throughout my region learned this the hard way this past summer. Chelan County alone lost 122,845 acres to wildfires, costing it over $4.7 million in damages. Many other smaller communities in Washington State and the country are impacted by wildfires and other disasters every year but do not receive the same FEMA consideration for Individual Assistance as more urban communities do. I was pleased to work with Congressmen Kilmer and Newhouse on bipartisan legislation to update this shortcoming in existing law and ensure that rural communities receive the financial support they need in order to help them pick up the pieces and rebuild after devastating disasters.” The members’ legislation would eliminate a factor FEMA uses to evaluate rural areas that treats them as a metropolitan area – putting too much emphasis on population density. The bill would also seek to set clear guidelines for how FEMA helps small states and rural communities gain access to assistance and would give Governors and Tribal Executives clear guidance as to why requests are accepted or rejected.
12.11.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Sens. Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell, and Reps. Jim McDermott, Adam Smith, Rick Larsen, Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Dave Reichert, Jaime Herrera Beutler, Suzan DelBene, Derek Kilmer, Denny Heck, and Dan Newhouse sent a letter to Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx, urging the Department of Transportation to quickly approve emergency relief funding to repair heavy damage to roadways in Washington state from storms occurring November 30 through December 8. The severe weather caused incidents state-wide ranging from flooding to mudslides, resulting in property damage and blocked roadways. “We urge you to grant the State of Washington’s ER funding request as quickly as possible to ensure our constituents have safe and uninterrupted access to these critical roadways,” the members wrote in their letter. Full text of the letter: December 10, 2015 The Honorable Anthony R. Foxx Secretary U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E. Washington, D.C. 20590 Dear Secretary Foxx: We write to urge you to expeditiously approve Emergency Relief (ER) program funding requested by the State of Washington to make emergency repairs to roadways and address damage caused by this week’s severe storms. On December 9, 2015, Governor Jay Inslee declared a state of emergency for all counties in Washington state as a result of a series of severe storms and hazardous weather conditions that occurred from November 30 through December 8. Heavy rainfall and strong winds have caused major flooding, saturated soils, landslides, mudslides, downed trees and power lines, stream bank and slope erosion, flying debris, standing water, and washouts. The Washington State Department of Transportation (WSDOT) is responding to more than 25 separate instances of blocked or damaged roadways across 13 counties due to this extreme weather, forcing our constituents to use alternate routes and detours. In some extreme cases, mudslides and flooding have completely isolated individual homes and neighborhoods. Interstate-5 (I-5) Northbound, approximately 20 miles north of Vancouver, remains blocked by mudslide and debris; if WSDOT can determine the surrounding slopes are stable, I-5 could be reopened in the next 24 hours. In addition, the northbound I-5 off-ramp to Kalama (exit 30) remains closed due to flooding. U.S. Route 2 near Leavenworth remains closed due to a mudslide, and may reopen soon, and U.S. Route 2 has been reduced to one lane in both directions west of Stevens Pass due to another mudslide. A washout on both sides of White Pass on U.S. Route 12 has closed this section of roadway indefinitely and an extended closure is expected. In all, more than 15 closures have been cleared or reopened by WSDOT’s diligent road crews and at least seven state routes remain closed. WSDOT estimates repairs to these roadways could reach at least $5 million, and the State of Washington has already requested $3 million in quick release ER funding to begin work immediately. We urge you to grant the State of Washington’s ER funding request as quickly as possible to ensure our constituents have safe and uninterrupted access to these critical roadways. Thank you in advance for your attention to this important request. Sincerely,
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA), released the following statement after the House approved H.R. 158, the Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015. Rep. Newhouse cosponsored the bill to enhance security screening for participants in the Visa Waiver Program. This program was created in 1986 and allows nationals from 38 participating countries to travel to the U.S. for up to 90 days for business or tourism without obtaining a U.S. visa, as long as they present a valid passport. “This common sense legislation strengthens our national security by making urgent reforms to address vulnerabilities in the Visa Waiver Program,” said Rep. Newhouse. “In light of the threat we face at home from ISIS terrorists, improving screening of foreign travelers to ensure the safety of the American people should be our top priority. I cosponsored this bipartisan bill to give our intelligence community additional tools so that we can scrutinize foreign nationals seeking to visit our country and better share intelligence with partner nations. Closing existing loopholes and tightening the screening process for travelers from participating countries are necessary steps to block those who would do us harm from entering our country.” H.R. 158, the Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015 will make the following changes to the Visa Waiver Program: Gives the Secretary of Homeland Security the authority to suspend a country’s participation in the program if they fail to share counterterrorism information with the U.S. Denies Visa Waiver Program status to those citizens from participating countries that have traveled to certain terrorist hotspots including Iraq and Syria since 2011 Requires all Visa Waiver Program countries to use fraud resistant “e-passports” Allows for the suspension of high-risk countries
12.06.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA), released the following statement after President Obama’s Oval Office address: "The President's address tonight was disappointing. The horrific attacks in Paris and San Bernardino clearly show that radical Islamic terrorism is a growing threat at home and abroad. President Obama has the authority he needs to destroy ISIS, but tonight he simply doubled down on current efforts that have failed to even contain it. “The call to restrict 2nd Amendment rights on law-abiding citizens was also misguided. California has the most stringent gun control laws in the nation. France has far stricter gun control than exists in the U.S. The terrorists attacked San Bernardino and Paris anyway. Rather than shift the debate to a political distraction, the President should develop a strategy to destroy radical Islamic terrorism."
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Kurt Schrader (D-OR), released the following statements applauding passage of the bipartisan H.R. 22, Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) to reauthorize transportation and infrastructure programs. Reps. Newhouse and Schrader led the effort to include the Port Performance Program within the FAST Act requiring the Bureau of Transportation Statistics (BTS) to collect and report port statistics which will then be published in an annual report by BTS. The bill also establishes a working group to make recommendations to BTS to determine specific port metrics. The working group will have at least 22 members, including government officials and representatives from labor and industry, with the final decision on metrics resting with the BTS Director. “The Port Performance Program is a step forward for transparency on ports operations,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I applaud passage of the FAST Act with important provisions to establish a metrics program that will provide objective baseline economic data for ports operations. Improved port metrics will provide a critical tool to examine the economic effects of port slowdowns such as the disastrous West Coast Ports slowdown earlier this year, and I thank my colleague, Rep. Schrader, for working with me on this effort.” “As an essential component of our transportation system, and the global supply chain, our ports are critical to U.S. farmers and businesses. The efficient flow of cargo in and out of our ports is vital to the economic health of our country. Unfortunately, very little data exists on the performance of our ports, when it is a requirement in nearly every other sector of our transportation system and is important not only identifying and dealing with congestion in the system, but also shaping transportation policy,” said Congressman Schrader. “I appreciate the inclusion of this provision in the FAST Act and am hopeful this can strengthen the tools necessary to prevent further port disruptions and lead to increased investment and a boost to our economy.” The Port Performance Program within the FAST Act would create the following requirements: The BTS Director must submit a report on port capacity and throughput no later than January 15th of each year; The annual report must cover, at a minimum, the top 25 ports in the nation by tonnage, containers, and dry bulk; The working group must be established within 60 days of the bill’s enactment, and the working group members must submit their recommendations to the BTS Director within one year of enactment of the bill; In response to the West Coast Ports slowdown earlier this year, Reps. Newhouse and Schrader introduced the H.R. 3932 the Ensuring Continued Operations and No Other Major Incidents, Closures, or Slowdowns (ECONOMICS) Act last month. The ECONOMICS Act would establish specific economic “triggers,” so that when certain economic impacts surrounding a dispute occur, a Board of Inquiry must be convened, and the Board would be required to report to the President and the public to recommend whether there should be a judicial injunction. For a summary of the FAST Act, click here.
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse (WA-04), released the following statement applauding House passage of H.R. 8, the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act. This legislation will modernize the country’s energy laws and infrastructure for the 21st Century, facilitate more domestic energy production, modernize our energy workforce, improve management of the electric grid on federal lands and forests, update hydropower regulations, and strengthen overall U.S. national security and energy independence. “I am proud to support this legislation to improve the reliability of our electricity grid and to support clean, renewable hydropower infrastructure,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Updating management policies for power lines on federal lands is a common sense step to reduce the threat of wildfires and prevent unnecessary electricity blackouts. Much of our energy in the Pacific Northwest comes from hydropower sources, and cutting red tape for non-federal hydropower projects will create more opportunities for clean energy production that benefits the environment and creates jobs. Improving management of the electric grid and reforming guidelines for hydropower production for will make energy more affordable for American energy consumers and ratepayers.” Included as a provision within H.R. 8 is the Electricity Reliability and Forest Protection Act, which was co-sponsored by Rep. Newhouse. This provision will improve the safety and reliability of transmission and distribution of electricity across federal lands. This will streamline the process of trimming hazard trees and performing limited vegetative management around power lines on federal lands. H.R. 8 also contains important provisions to update federal licensing and regulation of non-federal hydropower projects administered by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission under the Federal Power Act (FPA). Currently, the hydropower authorization process can last for 8 to 10 years, while other energy resources, such as natural gas, can be authorized in two years or less. Among other changes, the legislation includes reforms that would: make the approval process for non-federal hydropower more efficient and collaborative; improve the hydropower licensing study process; improve FERC’s license amendment procedures; expedite hydropower project upgrades that expand renewable hydropower capacity, address environmental effects, or support public recreation.
11.23.2015	RICHLAND, Washington – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today recognized Janice and Dean Walker with the 2015 Angels in Adoption award for Washington’s 4th Congressional District during National Adoption Month. Janice and Dean Walker are residents of Pasco who already had four biological children under the age of six when they adopted their twin five-year old sons from Zambia, Africa in 2010. In 2011, the Walkers had another biological daughter. In 2012, the Walkers adopted two five-year old sons, this time from China. Both of the sons the Walkers adopted from China had special needs, and while in China they learned that Janice would have another biological child. In 2013, the Walker family included 10 children. The Walkers’ story of adoption continues: Janice and Dean are now working to adopt a daughter from China with cerebral palsy and epilepsy. “The Walkers consider themselves to be ordinary people with 10 children who are phenomenal,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The message the Walkers send is anything but ordinary: adoption is a calling for families, including for those with their own biological children. Their ability to open their homes to orphans and their example of dedication to live for others make Janice and Dean true angels of adoption. I am honored to recognize them today. As we celebrate National Adoption Month, I hope the Walker Family will inspire others who are considering adoption. ” The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI) is a non-profit organization that works to raise awareness about the needs of children without families and to remove policy barriers that hinder children from knowing the love and support a family provides. CCAI’s Angels in Adoption initiative provides an opportunity for Members of Congress to honor an individual or entity from their district which has made an extraordinary contribution on behalf of children in need of homes.
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after voting in favor of H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015, which passed the House on a vote of 289-137. “While compassion and assistance to refugees are hallmarks of our nation, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, National Counterterrorism Center, and the Department of Homeland Security have all raised concerns about the ability to vet refugees,” said Rep. Newhouse. “These concerns, coupled with recent terror attacks and threats to our own homeland, underscore that our first responsibility is to ensure the security of the American people. I strongly support legislation to pause the resettlement of Syrian or Iraqi refugees in the U.S. until stringent vetting processes certified by the nation’s top security officials confirm that there is no threat posed to Americans.”
11.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today in a speech on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) applauded the dedication of the Manhattan Project National Historic Park and the opening of the historic B Reactor to visitors: CLICK HERE TO WATCH REP. NEWHOUSE’S FLOOR SPEECH ON THE MANHATATN PROJECT NATIONAL HISTORIC PARK Transcript: I rise today to recognize the opening of the Manhattan Project National Historic Park, a significant part of which is in my Congressional district in the state of Washington. Decades of successful cleanup efforts at the Hanford Nuclear Site have come to fruition with the dedication of the historic B Reactor as a part of this National Park. The B Reactor was the world’s first full-scale plutonium production reactor, helping our country end World War II and the Cold War. The new park will highlight the sacrifices and the contributions of thousands of workers who built the facility, and the scientists whose groundbreaking research played a critical role in the Manhattan Project. More than 50,000 visitors have toured the site since 2009, and the park will attract thousands more to learn about our region’s history. The park will provide future generations with a unique educational experience. I applaud the efforts of the community, who have worked for years to make this National Park a reality. I will continue to support the opening of additional sites for public access in order preserve and tell the story of Hanford.
11.10.2015	KENNEWICK, Washington – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) was presented with the “Hero of Main Street” award on behalf of the National Retail Federation and Washington Retailer's Association for his support of legislation critical to U.S. retail, including trade, health care reform, and tax reform. “I am honored to receive this award, and I will continue to support policies to grow small businesses that are the backbone of the American economy,” said Rep. Newhouse. “As a third-generation farmer, I have firsthand experience with the challenges and opportunities that come with running a small business. In many cases, simply reducing excessive regulations and cutting red tape can give small businesses the opportunity to do what they do best: create jobs and grow the economy. In Washington, 40 percent of our jobs are either directly created or supported by international trade, and reducing barriers to trade will continue to be a top priority of mine in Congress.” The 'Heroes of Main Street' awards were created by the National Retail Federation (NRF) in 2013 to recognize Members of Congress for outstanding support of the retail industry's public policy priorities. These 'heroes' have publicly supported policies and initiatives - defined by NRF - that recognize the important contributions of the retail industry, and have worked to encourage a vibrant, sustained and healthy retail sector. Retail is the nation’s largest private sector employer, supporting one in four U.S. jobs – 42 million working Americans – and contributing $2.6 trillion to annual GDP, according to NRF.
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – During a press conference today, Representatives Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Kurt Schrader (D-OR) announced the introduction of legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives, H.R. 3932 the Ensuring Continued Operations and No Other Major Incidents, Closures, or Slowdowns (ECONOMICS) Act. This legislation would create new economic safeguards to prevent future port slowdowns such as the West Coast ports slowdown that devastated families, businesses, and agriculture producers west of the Mississippi. H.R. 3932 is also cosponsored by Reps. Tom Cole (R-OK), Doug LaMalfa (R-CA), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Steve Stivers (R-OH), Fred Upton (R-MI), and Greg Walden (R-OR). “We must take the lesson of the most recent ports slowdown to heart: that two parties cannot hold hostage the nation’s economy,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Under the status quo, the national economy—which depends on a stable supply chain—is subject to the threat of ongoing disruptive activity at our ports. This legislation will create an impetus to act to resolve disputes before they drag on for months with catastrophic effects. By establishing objective economic standards that require the federal government to form a Board of Inquiry, we can reduce the threat of an economic bottleneck at our ports that causes costly delays and lost opportunities. Family farms and businesses in Washington simply cannot afford another slowdown. I am grateful for my colleagues’ support for this legislation.” “The West Coast Port crisis cost Oregon jobs, millions of dollars in economic growth and productivity and, eventually, the loss of its largest container shipper Hanjin from the Port of Portland—a hit that we will not know the full magnitude of for a few years,” said Rep. Schrader. “Another dispute of this magnitude cannot and should not happen. It only makes sense, given the irreparable economic harm and market loss from West Coast Port strife, that we establish a Board of Inquiry to push for a resolution before conditions worsen.” “The success of American agriculture is tied to our ability to dependably export our farm and ranch goods to overseas buyers,” said American Farm Bureau Federation President Bob Stallman. “Safeguards, such as those included in the ECONOMICS Act, would help prevent widespread disruption of our ability to deliver goods to our customers. The ability to ship agricultural products should not be held hostage by either side when disputes occur between shipping firms and labor. Measures included in this bill would help prevent damaging disruptions to our flow of agricultural commerce, which continues to be one of the brightest spots in our nation’s balance of trade.” Background: The prolonged contract negotiations and slowdown of cargo handling at the West Coast ports late last year and earlier this year caused significant disruptions throughout the economy, both nationally and across the States of Washington and Oregon. From May of 2014 through February of 2015, the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) and the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) engaged in lengthy negotiations of a multi-year contract covering the 29 West Coast container ports. On May 20th and 22nd, the PMA and the ILWU finally ratified the agreement reached in February. According to the Federal Reserve, exports from West Coast ports dropped by 20.5% in the first quarter of 2015. From November 2014 through February 2015, the dispute drastically slowed import and export traffic at 29 West Coast ports, paralyzing the economy west of the Mississippi River. Agricultural producers, retailers, manufacturers, and countless other businesses and consumers suffered, and were unable to reliably transport goods through the ports. The impact on American businesses equated to billions of dollars in damages, impacting thousands of jobs, and causing lost market share to foreign competitors. The ECONOMICS Act: Under existing law, the President has the emergency authority to appoint a Board of Inquiry to recommend whether a judicial injunction should be sought in a dispute. The Ensuring Continued Operations and No Other Major Incidents, Closures, or Slowdowns Act – or The ECONOMICS Act – puts in place specific “triggers,” so that when certain economic impacts surrounding a dispute occur, a Board of Inquiry must be convened, and the Board is required to report to the President and the public to recommend whether there should be a judicial injunction. Additionally, the legislation directs the Secretary of Transportation to divide the nation’s maritime ports geographically into 4 major Port Metric Identification Regions (PMIR) – the West Coast, East Coast, Gulf Coast, and Great Lakes. These triggers include: Number of Ports: When a labor dispute occurs at 4 or more port facilities. Number of Employees: When the number of affected employees at ports totals 6,000 or more. Drop in Export or Import Vessel Value: When in one month U.S. imports/exports drop 20% or more. The ECONOMICS Act also widens the definition of “strike” throughout U.S. labor law to clarify that the President has broad authority to intervene in a variety of disruptions – including slowdowns, strikes, lock-outs, or threatened strikes or lock-outs. This change in definition will also apply to economic impact triggers. The measure directs the Director of the Bureau of Transportation Statistics to develop “Additional Conditions” for appointing a Board of Inquiry within two years of enactment and report appropriate conditions numbers to Congress. The ECONOMICS Act would require an objective standard that defines when a dispute has reached a level of economic impact to require an Administrative inquiry and/or possible intervention. Currently, in the heat of an ongoing dispute, this threshold can be difficult to determine or agree upon. By requiring an objective standard for economic impact before a dispute takes place, disputes can be prevented from paralyzing our economy, costing jobs, and harming businesses and consumers alike. Click here for the text of the legislation.
10.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today released the following statement after voting in favor of Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI) as Speaker of the House of Representatives: “I was proud to support the Republican conference nominee, Paul Ryan, for Speaker. Paul’s election presents a fresh opportunity to move our conservative agenda forward on behalf of the American people. I look forward to starting with a clean slate with an effective new Speaker.”
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today released the following statement after voting against the two-year federal budget deal: “On process, policy, and priorities, this budget takes several steps in the wrong direction. Instead of promoting fiscal responsibility and careful planning, this budget is a result of waiting until the last-minute threat of a debt default. Washingtonians are frustrated with the way their federal government has operated, simply delaying crises until there are no good choices. Not only does this agreement fail to rein in the federal budget by authorizing billions in additional spending beyond limits set by the Budget Control Act, but it simultaneously harms farmers and rural communities. In order to fund additional spending increases elsewhere, this budget guts crop insurance that was already cut in last year’s Farm Bill, threatening protections for farmers and agriculture producers. This budget contains provisions requiring site-neutrality for reimbursements to hospitals—with real consequences for small rural communities’ access to vital medical services. Fiscal responsibility and common sense demand better, as do American taxpayers, farmers and rural communities, which is why I could not support this deal.”
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), joined by Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA), and Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) wrote today to Ambassador Cui Tiankai of China to express deep concern over the still-unresolved trade dispute between the U.S. and the People’s Republic of China involving Chinese-produced photovoltaic solar cells and modules and U.S.-produced polysilicon. The Members urged a prompt, mutually-agreeable settlement of the trade dispute to restore meaningful market access for U.S. polysilicon manufacturers exporting their products to Chinese customers. “The lack of progress toward a resolution for U.S. polysilicon that restores meaningful market access to China for U.S. polysilicon producers jeopardizes a potential resolution for Chinese solar panel producers,” the Members wrote. “The [United States Trade Representative] Ambassador Michael Froman has repeatedly expressed to [the China Ministry of Commerce Minister] Gao Hucheng that the U.S. government will not agree to a settlement for Chinese solar panel manufacturers without a simultaneous settlement for U.S. polysilicon. In other words, as both Minister Gao and Ambassador Froman have agreed, there must be a ‘package deal’ or there will be no deal at all. We stand firmly behind Ambassador Froman’s continuing efforts to resolve this issue.” The Members continued in the letter: “We believe the [China Ministry of Commerce Minister] and USTR have the ability to reach a mutually-agreeable settlement that reduces market distortions and restores predictability in trading conditions between industries in our two countries. We are concerned that if the two sides do not achieve a settlement soon, market conditions will change yet again, and a settlement will remain elusive. We urge you to ensure MOFCOM works quickly and cooperatively to reach a final negotiated settlement of both the solar panel and polysilicon matters.” The letter was also signed by U.S. Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Bob Corker (R-TN), Steve Daines (R-MT), Gary Peters (D-MI), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Jon Tester (D-MT) and Reps. Scott DesJarlais (R-LA), Chuck Fleischmann (R-TN), John Moolenaar (R-MI), and Ryan Zinke (R-MT). See below or click here for the text of the letter. October 28, 2015 The Honorable Cui Tiankai Ambassador Embassy of the People’s Republic of China 3505 International Place, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20008 Dear Ambassador Cui, We write today to express our deep concern over the still unresolved trade dispute between the United States and the People’s Republic of China involving Chinese-produced photovoltaic solar cells and modules and U.S.-produced polysilicon. It is troubling that this significant trade irritant affecting the solar industry, which is so important to both the U.S. and China, remains unresolved, despite significant efforts by solar panel producers in both countries, U.S. polysilicon producers, the China Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) and the United States Trade Representative (USTR). The lack of progress toward a resolution for U.S. polysilicon that restores meaningful market access to China for U.S. polysilicon producers jeopardizes a potential resolution for Chinese solar panel producers. The USTR Ambassador Michael Froman has repeatedly expressed to MOFCOM Minister Gao Hucheng that the U.S. government will not agree to a settlement for Chinese solar panel manufacturers without a simultaneous settlement for U.S. polysilicon. In other words, as both Minister Gao and Ambassador Froman have agreed, there must be a “package deal” or there will be no deal at all. We stand firmly behind Ambassador Froman’s continuing efforts to resolve this issue. Industries in both countries stand to benefit greatly from a mutually-agreeable settlement of this trade dispute that restores meaningful market access both for Chinese solar panel manufacturers exporting their products to the U.S. and for U.S. polysilicon manufacturers exporting their products to their Chinese customers. Indeed, a prompt settlement of this dispute will repair and deepen economic ties between our two nations in a global industry that is playing a critical role developing clean, renewable energy sources. We believe the MOFCOM and USTR have the ability to reach a mutually-agreeable settlement that reduces market distortions and restores predictability in trading conditions between industries in our two countries. We are concerned that if the two sides do not achieve a settlement soon, market conditions will change yet again, and a settlement will remain elusive. We urge you to ensure MOFCOM works quickly and cooperatively to reach a final negotiated settlement of both the solar panel and polysilicon matters. Sincerely,
10.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Reps. Dan Newhouse (WA-04), a member of the House Agriculture Committee, and Mike Quigley (IL-05), a member of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development appropriations subcommittee, today applauded bipartisan passage of H.R. 3819, the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2015. The legislation funds and extends the authorization for federal highway and transit programs through November 20, 2015. H.R. 3819 also includes a provision to extend the upcoming deadline for implementing positive train control (PTC) safety technology until 2018, preventing a shutdown of the nation’s passenger and freight rail system. The Congressmen released the following joint statement: “We commend Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster and Ranking Member Peter DeFazio for their hard work on this bipartisan legislation to provide much-needed certainty for road and rail projects nationwide. Instead of waiting until the last minute, the inclusion of a deadline extension for the full implementation of positive train control (PTC) safety technology addresses the national economic threat of a rail shut down of our country’s freight and commuter network. This legislation requires a clear timeline for reasonable implementation of this vital safety technology while protecting the economy from the needless shock of a major rail disruption.” In September, Reps. Newhouse and Quigley sent a bipartisan letter to House leadership signed by over 160 Members of Congress urging Congress to extend the upcoming deadline for implementing PTC, showing the overwhelming support for action. When Congress mandated PTC implementation by 2015 in the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008, there was no off-the-shelf technology available to achieve these safety objectives for all railroads. Our nation’s railroads have had to develop it, and they’ve had to do that with little help from the federal government. 71 percent of commuter railroads will not achieve full PTC implementation before the statutory deadline of December 2015. Half of the country’s commuter railroads are being forced to defer other safety and capital improvements in order to afford the costs of PTC.
10.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released a statement following President Obama’s veto of the bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA): “The American people understand exactly what this is: the President is playing politics with defense by holding the national defense authorization bill hostage to advance his own big-spending domestic agenda. Providing for the common defense is the foremost constitutional duty of the federal government. This bill gives the men and women of our Armed Forces the resources they need at the levels requested by the President. Pitting increased domestic spending against resources for our men and women overseas in harm’s way is wrong. Congress must override the President’s veto to ensure our national security.” In May, Rep. Newhouse voted in favor of H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). In addition to providing for our national defense and overseas operations, the NDAA authorizes funding for the Richland Operations Office (RL) and for the Office of River Protection (ORP) to continue cleanup at Hanford. In April, Rep. Newhouse successfully led a request to the House Armed Services Committee for strong support for Hanford cleanup in the National Defense Authorization Act, which was provided in this NDAA.
10.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the announcement that the federal government approved Governor Jay Inslee’s request on October 7, 2015 for federal disaster assistance for emergency work related to this summer’s devastating wildfires: “I am glad that the Administration complied with the request for a major disaster declaration, approving financial federal assistance for wildfire-devastated areas across Washington,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This assistance allows critical support for emergency work and repair of facilities damaged by the record-setting wildfires this summer. While this emergency support is a much-needed step in the right direction, the request for Individual Assistance, which would provide impacted homeowners and businesses with relief, must be approved as quickly as possible to meet the needs of impacted residents. On behalf of affected communities in Central Washington, I am grateful for the response thus far and continue to urge the President to grant vital individual assistance.” The Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Public Assistance Program provides assistance for emergency work and the repair or replacement of disaster-damaged facilities as well as Hazard Mitigation Grant programs. The approval of public assistance covers Chelan, Ferry, Lincoln, Okanogan, Pend Oreille, Stevens, Whatcom, and Yakima Counties and the Confederated Tribes of the Colville Reservation. Earlier this month, Rep. Newhouse joined members of the federal delegation representing areas in Washington State impacted by this summer's historic wildfires to urge President Obama to grant the Governor’s request for federal disaster assistance. In August, Rep. Newhouse urged prompt approval of Governor Inslee’s request for a federal emergency disaster declaration, which was granted by FEMA. However, with more than one million acres burned and 146 homes destroyed and another 476 damaged, more federal assistance is necessary to respond adequately to the affected communities.
10.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Dan Newhouse (WA-04), a member of the House Agriculture Committee, Mike Quigley (IL-05), a member of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development appropriations subcommittee, and Dan Lipinski (IL-03), a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, along with leaders of the rail industry and shippers urged Congress to act immediately to extend the upcoming deadline for implementing positive train control (PTC) safety technology and prevent a shutdown of the nation’s passenger and freight rail system. “The economic damage caused by a shutdown of our nation’s rail network would be as grave as it would be unnecessary. Food prices would spike sharply as impacted farmers would be prevented from effectively transporting products to market. Farmers would face increased costs procuring necessary fertilizers and pesticides,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Positive Train Control is a vital safety technology, and our nation’s rail networks require a clear timeline for reasonable implementation. Failure to extend this deadline within the next few weeks will have devastating impacts on all Americans who rely on our nation’s rail networks. I urge my colleagues in Congress to act on this commonsense measure to extend the deadline to implement PTC.” “The consequences for inaction on positive train control are too great. The time Congress has to avert an economic disaster is too short,” said Rep. Quigley. “While the deadline for PTC implementation is December 31, preventing a major disruption of rail service requires Congress to act much sooner. Shutting down the nations’ rail network involves more than simply flipping a switch – it involves complex logistics and will take weeks to complete. Therefore, Congress cannot afford to wait until the last minute to act and should explore all legislative options to get the job done as soon as possible.” “I’m pleased that House and Senate negotiators have come to an agreement on an extension of the Positive Train Control (PTC) mandate that sets the bar high for safety and holds the railroads’ feet to the fire,” said Rep. Lipinski. “This extension would provide an additional three years for railroads to install the technology and obtain bandwidth, but for any further extensions the railroads must meet benchmarks that demonstrate serious progress and investment. Congress must closely track the progress of the railroads to ensure that they are making sufficient investments in PTC so that they will complete installation as quickly as possible. Now that we have an agreement, we need Congress to pass this extension without delay.” (From left to right) Kirk Dillard, Chairman of the Regional Transportation Authority (RTA); Chris Jahn, President of The Fertilizer Institute; Edward Hamberger, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Association of American Railroads, Rep. Mike Quigley, Rep. Dan Lipinski, Rep. Dan Newhouse; Rep. Bill Foster; Rep. Brad Ashford; Martin Oberman, Chairman of Metra; Don Orseno, President and CEO of Metra; Rep. Bob Dold The event was also attended by Edward Hamberger, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Association of American Railroads; Martin Oberman, Chairman of Metra (Chicago commuter railroad); and Chris Jahn, President of The Fertilizer Institute, as well as members who signed the bipartisan letter led by Reps. Quigley and Newhouse to House leadership urging an extension of the PTC implementation deadline. “Nitrogen fertilizer is fuel for agriculture’s high performance engine and makes it possible for our nation’s farmers to produce $225 billion worth of crops annually,” said The Fertilizer Institute (TFI) President Chris Jahn. “Without speedy action to extend the PTC implementation deadline, growers will be denied reliable access to an essential tool of food production.” Today, the members and rail industry leaders explained that despite the investment of billions of dollars by passenger and freight railroads towards PTC implementation, implementing PTC nationwide by the statutory deadline at the end of this year is simply impossible. Without congressional action, hundreds of thousands of passengers who rely on commuter rail to get to work every day will have to find alternate means of travel, crowding already congested roads, increasing costs to local communities, and disproportionately affecting low income Americans. Shutting down the country’s freight network would also have devastating consequences to the nation’s economy, affecting thousands of businesses across a wide spectrum of industries and producing shortages of essential goods. Earlier this month, Reps. Newhouse and Quigley sent a bipartisan letter to House leadership signed by over 160 Members of Congress urging Congress to extend the upcoming deadline for implementing PTC, showing the overwhelming support for action. When Congress mandated PTC implementation by 2015 in the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008, there was no off-the-shelf technology available to achieve these safety objectives for all railroads. Our nation’s railroads have had to develop it, and they’ve had to do that with little help from the federal government. 71 percent of commuter railroads will not achieve full PTC implementation before the statutory deadline of December 2015. Half of the country’s commuter railroads are being forced to defer other safety and capital improvements in order to afford the costs of PTC.
10.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The federal delegation representing areas in Washington state impacted by this summer's historic wildfires sent a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to grant Governor Jay Inslee's request for federal disaster assistance. On Wednesday, Governor Inslee requested assistance for both wildfires and the massive windstorm in late August. The letter was sent by U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse (WA-4), U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Reps. Dave Reichert (WA-8), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-5), Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-3). In the letter, the members said, “We fully support Governor Inslee’s request for a major disaster declaration that includes hazard mitigation, public assistance, and individual assistance. The public assistance requested by Governor Inslee is vital to restoring public infrastructure damaged by the wildfires. Further, individual assistance with housing support, disaster crisis counseling, disaster unemployment, and other supports will help meet the needs of the families, business owners, and other community members who are struggling in the aftermath of this disaster. We therefore urge you to grant Governor Inslee’s request in its entirety and as soon as possible.” In August, members expressed support of Governor Inslee’s request for a federal emergency disaster declaration, which was granted by FEMA. However, with more than one million acres burned and 146 homes destroyed and another 476 damaged, more federal assistance is necessary to respond adequately to the affected communities. The full text of the letter is below: October 8, 2015 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, Northwest Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to urge you to swiftly approve the federal major disaster declaration requested on October 7, 2015 by Washington Governor Jay Inslee. We are grateful for your quick approval on August 21, 2015, of Governor Inslee’s request for a federal emergency disaster declaration (FEMA-3372-EM). As the magnitude of these wildfires has grown, however, so too have the long-term personal and economic effects on small, rural communities in Washington state. The emergency declaration, while vital in supporting the immediate efforts to save lives and property, is inadequate to support the long-term needs of the region’s individual families and public entities. As you know, Washington state is experiencing a historically intense wildfire season. Wildfires burning in counties throughout Central and Eastern Washington have stretched our state’s wildfire-fighting resources thin and have further devastated communities still recovering from last year’s fires. The Okanogan Complex fire of 2015 was the largest wildfire in Washington state’s history, more than doubling the acres burned by the previous record fire, the Carlton Complex fire of 2014. Over $319 million has been spent fighting wildfires in Washington state since June 1, supporting 11,450 firefighting and support personnel and 1,569 Washington National Guard soldiers at peak activity. Taken together, wildfires in Washington state this season have burned over one million acres and destroyed 146 homes – 92 of which were uninsured – across 13 counties and four Federally-recognized tribes: Asotin, Chelan, Columbia, Douglas, Ferry, Garfield, Klickitat, Lincoln, Okanogan, Pend Oreille, Stevens, Whatcom, and Yakima Counties; and the Confederated Tribes of the Colville Reservation, the Kalispel Tribe of Indians, the Spokane Tribe of Indians, and the Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakama Nation. For the second year in a row, Okanogan County has been particularly hard hit by wildfire. Over 50 percent of the state’s total home loss was sustained by Okanogan County, which has historically been characterized by low housing vacancy rates and has been struggling to cope with the destruction of over 300 homes last year by wildfire. The Okanogan Complex and other wildfires have thrust a previously stressed region towards an increasingly dire housing situation. While local hotels are normally relied upon to address housing shortages triggered by disasters, the County’s ongoing and economically vital tourist season has significantly diminished the number of rooms available to displaced households. This is not a matter of affordability: there are simply no empty homes or rooms to accommodate displaced families. Federal assistance is needed immediately to confront this housing shortage before it grows into a crisis. The region’s public infrastructure has sustained enormous damage due to the wildfires. Wildfires this year have inflicted more than $42 million in Public Assistance-eligible damage across the affected 13 counties. In Okanogan and Pend Oreille Counties, Public Assistance burden per capita exceeds $500. The Chelan and Okanogan Public Utility Districts (PUDs) reported over 232 miles of power lines and fiber optic cable and 983 poles impacted by wildfire. At the fires’ peak, more than 15,500 customers in the PUDs service areas were without power due to fire damage. Three radio communications sites powered by Slide Ridge in Chelan County remain without power, are currently seeking temporary power solutions, and it may require up to two years to restore full functionality. Slide Ridge serves the United States Forest Service (USFS), the National Park Service, as well as passenger boat operators on Lake Chelan. Rebuilding these public utilities will take significant amounts of time and funding and federal assistance is seriously needed. We are proud that Washington state is home to a strong agricultural sector, with farmers, ranchers, and agriculture businesses located throughout our state. As of 2012, Okanogan County alone supported more than 1,440 farms and its production of apples, cherries, pears, forage, wheat, and cattle resulted in $287 million in sales. Of the estimated 41,000 Washingtonians living in Okanogan County, approximately 45 percent of the total workforce is tied to the agriculture sector. Thirty-five percent of Okanogan County’s 11,000 head of cattle were lost as wildfires swept through the area. An additional 12 percent are expected to be lost to starvation if adequate feeding solutions are not put into place, which would push aggregate cattle losses to $10.5 million. Furthermore, the regions’ fence line and grazing land has almost been completely destroyed for a second year in a row. The Washington Department of Natural Resources and the USFS estimate that they lost 95 and 80 percent of grazing land, respectively. With so much of the region’s workforce tied to the agricultural industry, the losses suffered have resulted in significant hardship for the local economy and residents of Central and Eastern Washington. Several Washington tribes are heavily dependent upon the natural resources of their reservations to support annual operating budgets and provide benefits and employment to tribal members. Timber resources are critically important and can take decades to reach economic viability. An estimated one-fifth of the timber resources on the Colville Reservation have been lost during the 2015 wildfire season, and the North Star and Tunk Block wildfires collectively burned more than 250,000 acres on the Colville Reservation. Many of these reservation communities are plagued by high unemployment and lack of local employment opportunities, and therefore natural resources provide both essential operating funds and gainful employment. The federal government’s tribal trust responsibility needs to be upheld as we work collaboratively to recover from this devastating wildfire season. We encourage you to consider all options to support the recovery of all communities in Central and Eastern Washington, including those on reservations. In recent weeks, we have heard from constituents throughout Central and Eastern Washington who have had their lives upended once more by wildfires. But we also have heard stories of bravery and generosity, of the grit and grace that have defined these communities for generations. The citizens of Central and Eastern Washington are fiercely independent people with a proud history of taking care of their own. Through their determination and hard work, these communities began to pull themselves out of the ashes of 2014’s fires. Today, not even a year removed, they face the harrowing prospect of starting over yet again. With this in mind, we find their calls for help all the more meaningful. We are grateful of the thousands of firefighters, volunteers, and servicemembers from multiple local, state, and federal agencies who have responded heroically to this disaster. We are grateful for all those who have traveled from Colorado, Mississippi, Montana, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and other jurisdictions to lend their assistance in firefighting. We are also deeply appreciative of the commitment of the many citizens, volunteers, charities, businesses, and local elected and appointed officials who have risen to serve their neighbors during this very difficult time. Lastly, we continue to mourn the three firefighters – Richard Wheeler, Andrew Zajac, and Tom Zbyszewski – who lost their lives combating the Twisp wildfire on August 19, 2015. Considering the disaster burden that the region and the state have experienced over the last 18 months, we feel that federal assistance is critical to the long-term health and safety of affected communities. Since March 2014, Washington state has had to grapple with two major disaster declarations, three emergency declarations, and 20 Fire Management Assistance Grants (FMAGs). Forty percent of FMAGs issued this year nationwide have been in response to Washington state wildfires. Concurrent with this major disaster request, Governor Inslee is requesting that a major disaster be declared for counties impacted by the worst summer windstorm in Washington state history, which occurred on August 29, 2015. While they have responded admirably, a disaster of this magnitude has exhausted the already-strained capacities of local communities and state agencies. Therefore, we fully support Governor Inslee’s request for a major disaster declaration that includes hazard mitigation, public assistance, and individual assistance. The public assistance requested by Governor Inslee is vital to restoring public infrastructure damaged by the wildfires. Further, individual assistance with housing support, disaster crisis counseling, disaster unemployment, and other supports will help meet the needs of the families, business owners, and other community members who are struggling in the aftermath of this disaster. We therefore urge you to grant Governor Inslee’s request in its entirety and as soon as possible. Thank you in advance for your prompt attention to this matter. Sincerely,
10.07.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) led a letter to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy urging the EPA to withdraw its proposal to impose federal water quality standards, specifically Human Health Water Quality Criteria (HHWQC) on the State of Washington. The letter requests that the EPA follow federal guidelines and long-standing precedent by allowing Washington to determine the appropriate course of action to adopt its own human health water quality standards as prescribed in the Clean Water Act (CWA). The letter was signed by Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Dave Reichert (R-WA), and Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA). The Members wrote in the letter to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy: “We are greatly troubled by the continued actions of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) towards the State of Washington in its process to develop its own water quality standards as established by the Clean Water Act (CWA). We are specifically concerned that EPA has now formally proposed to impose federal Human Health Water Quality Criteria (HHWQC) on the State via regulation. This is just the latest in a series of efforts by EPA to force Washington State into adopting standards that go well beyond what is required for states under the CWA, and ignores the primary and long-standing role states have in developing water quality standards established under the statute.” The Members continued in the letter: “Almost two years ago, several Members of Congress wrote to you to express their concern with EPA Region 10’s interference in the CWA water quality standards development process then underway in the states of Washington and Idaho. Since that time, Washington State has continued with its deliberative and open stakeholder processes to develop the HHWQC. To date, that process resulted in the Department of Ecology’s proposed comprehensive package of HHWQC, as well as other measures intended to reduce risks and protect human health. While Washington stakeholders have been involved in the process, which resulted in a rigorous, stringent standard, EPA has short circuited that process by proposing to impose even more restrictive criteria. These actions highlight the fact that EPA is attempting to pressure Washington into adopting criteria that are more burdensome and rigid than even the state’s original proposal, which the Washington State Department of Ecology withdrew from consideration earlier this summer after being notified by EPA that the proposal was inadequate.” The Members continued: “We expect EPA to allow the State of Washington and other states to complete their work developing protective and achievable HHWQC. We urge EPA to withdraw the proposed federal rule and let Washington determine the appropriate course of action to adopt its own human health water quality standards, as contemplated by the CWA.” Background: Under the Clean Water Act, individual states are delegated significant authority to establish state water quality standards as long as they follow established federal criteria. The State of Washington had been working on its own Human Health Water Quality Criteria (HHWQC) for several years. Earlier this year, the Washington Department of Ecology drafted a proposal that would comply with updated CWA requirements and create achievable goals for businesses and municipalities in the state. However, EPA criticized the state’s proposed standards— even though they surpass what is required under EPA guidance—making clear the state’s proposal would be rejected. In response, the Department of Ecology withdrew the proposal. Washington’s proposal included a Fish Consumption Rate (FCR) and Cancer Risk Level that is more stringent than required by EPA, but the Agency still released its own proposed rule on September 2nd, 2015 “that revises the current federal Clean Water Act human health water quality criteria applicable to waters under the state of Washington’s jurisdiction,” according to EPA’s press release. The EPA is now accepting public comment on the proposed federal water quality standards for Washington through November 13, 2015. Click here or see below for the full text of the letter. October 7, 2015 The Honorable Gina McCarthy Administrator United States Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20460 Dear Administrator McCarthy: We are greatly troubled by the continued actions of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) towards the State of Washington in its process to develop its own water quality standards as established by the Clean Water Act (CWA). We are specifically concerned that EPA has now formally proposed to impose federal Human Health Water Quality Criteria (HHWQC) on the State via regulation. This is just the latest in a series of efforts by EPA to force Washington State into adopting standards that go well beyond what is required for states under the CWA, and ignores the primary and long-standing role states have in developing water quality standards established under the statute. Almost two years ago, several Members of Congress wrote to you to express their concern with EPA Region 10’s interference in the CWA water quality standards development process then underway in the states of Washington and Idaho. Since that time, Washington State has continued with its deliberative and open stakeholder processes to develop the HHWQC. To date, that process resulted in the Department of Ecology’s proposed comprehensive package of HHWQC, as well as other measures intended to reduce risks and protect human health. While Washington stakeholders have been involved in the process, which resulted in a rigorous, stringent standard, EPA has short circuited that process by proposing to impose even more restrictive criteria. These actions highlight the fact that EPA is attempting to pressure Washington into adopting criteria that are more burdensome and rigid than even the state’s original proposal, which the Washington State Department of Ecology withdrew from consideration earlier this summer after being notified by EPA that the proposal was inadequate. EPA has consistently ignored its existing guidance and made clear that the Agency will disapprove Washington’s HHWQC unless the state uses extremely conservative cancer risk levels and fish consumption rates in the development of the HHWQC. Additionally, EPA’s actions have the potential to set an adverse national precedent, as the logic it is using to ignore its existing policy could be applied in many other states. EPA’s proposed criteria are calculated in a manner that would be even more stringent than the unachievable ones previously adopted by Oregon, which was the first state in the region to adopt EPA’s preferred HHWQC as a result of EPA pressure. In late 2013, a coalition comprised of Washington industry, municipalities, and counties released a study demonstrating that if Oregon’s standards were applied in Washington State, even with the most advanced technology available, facilities would not be able to meet the resulting CWA permit limits – and would potentially cost billions of dollars – all with little human health benefit. We expect EPA to allow the State of Washington and other states to complete their work developing protective and achievable HHWQC. We urge EPA to withdraw the proposed federal rule and let Washington determine the appropriate course of action to adopt its own human health water quality standards, as contemplated by the CWA. Sincerely:
10.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – During a press conference today at Easterday Farms in Pasco, WA, U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) unveiled details of draft legislation he plans to introduce in Congress, the Ensuring Continued Operations and No Other Major Incidents, Closures, or Slowdowns (ECONOMICS) Act. The ECONOMICS Act would establish economic benchmarks that trigger measures to prevent future port slowdowns, such as the West Coast ports slowdown. The slowdown devastated families, businesses, and agriculture producers across Washington and continues to cause ongoing economic damage. Rep. Newhouse was joined at this morning’s news conference by Mike LaPlant, President of the Washington Farm Bureau and Matt Harris, the Director of Government Affairs & Assistant Executive Director of the Washington State Potato Commission. “As far too many Washingtonians know, the prolonged contract negotiations and slowdown of cargo handling at the 29 West Coast ports late last year and early this year caused significant disruptions throughout the economy, both nationally but certainly here in Washington State,” said Rep. Newhouse. Rep. Newhouse continued: “From May of 2014 through February of 2015, the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) and the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) engaged in lengthy negotiations of a multi-year contract covering those 29 West Coast container ports. On May 20th and 22nd, the PMA and the ILWU finally ratified the agreement that had been reached in February. “In a typical year, the state of Washington exports one-third of its agricultural crop—most that going to markets in Asia. And some commodities, it’s much higher than 30 percent. According to the Northwest Horticultural Council, Washington’s apple industry lost $100 million in sales opportunities and canceled orders due to the slowdown. The Agriculture Transportation Coalition estimated that total U.S. agricultural export losses (for fruits, vegetables and meats shipped by container) were almost $400 million per week in December of 2014. Washington hay producers are still feeling the impacts of unsold inventory on their export markets. These slowdowns jeopardize hard-won market share. Those customers do not and will not come back for producers and processors overnight. It’s tough to get them back. The Washington potato growers estimate they have lost $23.5 million in French fry exports every month the slowdown took place. That directly harms potato growers and packing houses like the Easterdays’—the one we are in today. According to the Federal Reserve, exports from West Coast ports dropped dramatically—by 20.5% —in the first quarter of 2015. “The devastating effects of the months-long dispute show the critical need to make a line in the sand: because two parties should not be able to hold a whole economy hostage. We are here today at Easterday Farms in Pasco, a family farm and potato packing facility which felt the impacts of the slowdown. But sadly, their story is not unique. Family farms and businesses in Central Washington simply can’t afford another slowdown. Too many livelihoods are held hostage by the few. “That is why I am announcing draft legislation, which is called the Ensuring Continued Operations and No Other Major Incidents, Closures, or Slowdowns (ECONOMICS) Act, which would create new economic safeguards to prevent future slowdowns such as the West Coast ports slowdown that devastated families, businesses, and agricultural producers across Washington and continues to cause economic damage. “The goal of the draft legislation is to establish a safeguard mechanism to prevent future disputes like the slowdown from harming our economy. This bill would create economic triggers that mandate a legal mediation process in an employer-labor dispute. Regardless of who is at fault—and we are not pointing fingers at any particular party—we need to ensure that one side cannot negatively harm so many, and Congress must provide additional tools to keep supply chains operating and the economy running. “The ECONOMICS Act is a step forward to a solution that safeguards our export economy, and I am ready to work with stakeholders and my colleagues in Congress on this legislation to end the threat of catastrophic slowdowns and other disruptions at our ports.” Mike LaPlant, President of the Washington Farm Bureau: “Port slowdowns are extremely detrimental to the agricultural industry. Congressman Newhouse is a champion for agriculture and the legislation he drafted will help ensure the sustainability and future of the industry.” Matt Harris, Director of Government Affairs & Assistant Executive Director of the Washington State Potato Commission: “We support congressional action that helps alleviate bottlenecks in the communication process between the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) and the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU). The recent port disruption hurt family potato farms costing rural Washington millions of dollars’ worth of contracted sales which would have generating revenue for the state to help support our schools, first responders and social services.” The ECONOMICS Act Under existing law, the President has the emergency authority to appoint a Board of Inquiry to recommend whether a judicial injunction should be sought in a dispute. The ECONOMICS Act puts in place specific “triggers,” so that when certain economic impacts surrounding a dispute occur, a Board of Inquiry must be convened, and the Board is required to report to the President and the public to recommend whether there should be a judicial injunction. These triggers include: Number of Ports: When a labor dispute occurs at 4 or more port facilities Number of Employees: When the number of affected employees at ports totals 6,000 or more Drop in Exports: When U.S. exports drop 15% or more in one month, or 5% or more in two consecutive months The ECONOMICS Act also widens the definition of “strike” throughout U.S. labor law to clarify that the President has broad authority to intervene in a variety of disruptions – including slowdowns, strikes, lock-outs, or threatened strikes or lock-outs. This change in definition will also apply to economic impact triggers. The purpose of The ECONOMICS Act is to require an objective standard that defines when a dispute has reached a level of economic impact to require possible intervention. In the heat of a dispute, this threshold can be hard to determine or agree upon. By requiring an objective standard for economic impact before a dispute takes place, disputes can be prevented from paralyzing our economy, costing jobs, and harming businesses and consumers alike. Click here for a one-page summary of the Ensuring Continued Operations and No Other Major Incidents, Closures, or Slowdowns (ECONOMICS) Act. Click here for the text of the legislation.
10.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today on the floor of the U.S. House, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) commended this week’s transfer of 1,641 acres of unneeded federal land from the Hanford site to the Tri-City Development Council, the designated Community Reuse Organization: CLICK HERE TO WATCH REP. NEWHOUSE RECOGNIZE HANFORD LAND TRANSFER Transcript: “I rise to recognize a significant milestone in Richland, Kennewick, and Pasco, Washington. While the Tri-Cities led the way in ending World War II and the Cold War—and was very proud to do so—the federal government has a legal and moral obligation to clean-up the legacy nuclear waste at Hanford. This week, we celebrate a clean-up milestone and the transfer of more than 1,600 acres of land back to these communities. “This transfer represents the culmination of years of local efforts as well as bipartisan, bicameral cooperation. I commend the work of Doc Hastings and Senators Murray and Cantwell that laid the groundwork for this achievement. “As Hanford’s cleanup mission is completed, this unneeded federal land should continue to be returned to the local community for the goals of conservation, preservation, public access, and economic development to be achieved. “This long-anticipated land transfer will be used for industrial and energy production and creates jobs and boosts economic development in the mid-Columbia region. This week’s transfer is an exciting step for the post-Hanford future. I will continue to work with all parties to have more land returned to the community.”
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Dan Newhouse (WA-04), a member of the House Agriculture Committee, and Mike Quigley (IL-05), a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD), released the following statement applauding Transportation and Infrastructure Committee leaders’ introduction of H.R. 3651, Positive Train Control Enforcement and Implementation Act of 2015 to extend the upcoming deadline for implementing Positive Train Control (PTC) safety technology: “We appreciate the Transportation Committee for taking the concerns of the more than 160 members we led to heart, and thank Chairman Bill Shuster and Ranking Member Peter DeFazio for moving quickly to extend this deadline,” the Representatives stated. “While the current deadline to implement PTC is the end of this year, numerous passenger and freight rail services have indicated that Americans could begin to see the effects of the disruption weeks prior to the deadline with railroads, shippers, and agricultural suppliers stopping operations and closing facilities in early December or sooner due to the complex logistics. The grave economic risk this issue poses would have far reaching consequences for American commuters, businesses, and our economy. Congress should act quickly to pass this bill, which extends the PTC implementation deadline with a clear timeline that keeps railroads accountable while allowing for the responsible employment of this critical safety technology.” The Positive Train Control Enforcement and Implementation Act of 2015 extends the deadline to fully implement the technology to the end of 2018, provides limited authority for the U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary to extend the deadline beyond 2018 if railroads demonstrate they are facing continued difficulties in completing the mandate, but have made every effort to install Positive Train Control as soon as possible, and requires railroads to complete progress reports on implementation. Yesterday, Reps. Newhouse and Quigley led a bipartisan letter to House leadership signed by over 150 Members of Congress urging Congress to act to prevent a shutdown of the nation’s passenger and freight rail system by extending the deadline.
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Dan Newhouse (WA-04), a member of the House Agriculture Committee, and Mike Quigley (IL-05), a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD), led a bipartisan letter to House leadership signed by over 150 Members of Congress urging Congress to extend the upcoming deadline for implementing Positive Train Control (PTC) safety technology and prevent a shutdown of the nation’s passenger and freight rail system. “The statutory deadline for the full implementation of PTC safety technology is rapidly approaching, and it is clear that our nation’s passenger and freight railroads are unable to meet the deadline,” the members wrote. “To avert a major disruption of passenger and freight rail service that will have far reaching consequences for American commuters, businesses, and our economy, Congress must act now to extend the upcoming PTC deadline with a clear timeline that keeps railroads accountable and allows for the responsible implementation of this critical safety technology.” In their letter, Reps. Newhouse and Quigley explained that despite the investment of billions of dollars by passenger and freight railroads towards PTC implementation, a recent report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) confirms what commuter railroads, the freight industry, and numerous government agencies have warned for years: implementing PTC nationwide by the statutory deadline at end of this year is simply impossible. They warned that unless Congress acts soon to extend the deadline, passenger and freight railroads will have to shut down operations across the country. Without congressional action, the hundreds of thousands of passengers who rely on commuter rail to get to work every day will have to find alternate means of travel, crowding already congested roads, increasing costs to local communities, and disproportionately affecting low income Americans. Shutting down the country’s freight network would also have devastating consequences to our nation’s economy, affecting thousands of businesses across a wide spectrum of industries and producing shortages of essential goods. The shutdown could make it difficult for cities to purify drinking water without the availability of chlorine and for farmers to tend to their crops without access to fertilizer. When Congress mandated PTC implementation by 2015 in the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008, there was no off-the-shelf technology available to achieve these safety objectives for all railroads. Our nation’s railroads have had to develop it, and they’ve had to do that with little help from the federal government. 71 percent of commuter railroads will not achieve full PTC implementation before the statutory deadline of December 2015. Half of the country’s commuter railroads are being forced to defer other safety and capital improvements in order to afford the costs of PTC.
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the announcement of Speaker Boehner’s resignation: “I thank Speaker Boehner for his honorable service in Congress. His decision to resign placed the interests of this institution and the American people before himself. I wish my best to him and Debbie as they begin a new chapter in their lives. As the process to select a new Speaker begins, I look forward to a debate that will unite our diverse conference around principled, effective, conservative leadership.”
09.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) led a bipartisan letter, signed by 17 House Members, to U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman requesting that he raise the issue of China’s import ban on GMO alfalfa with Chinese trade authorities in order to help protect the hundreds of millions of dollars and thousands of U.S. jobs provided by national alfalfa production. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Franklin and Grant Counties in Central Washington are two of the top 10 alfalfa producing counties in the United States. The Members wrote in the letter U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman: “Since China opened its market to U.S. alfalfa hay in 2006, rising exports of this commodity have been a great trade success story. American exporters are projected to sell 1.2 million tons of high-quality alfalfa into the Chinese market in 2015, and as China’s demand for milk and dairy products grows, its need for the highest-quality feed will grow as well. It is crucial that American farmers and exporters are able to continue exporting into this market, and ensuring this should be a top priority of the U.S. Trade Representative and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Unfortunately, recent developments have imperiled the ability of U.S. exporters to meet Chinese demand for alfalfa, potentially putting hundreds of millions of dollars and thousands of U.S. jobs at risk. We urge you to prevail upon China to accept reasonable world-class import policies for U.S. alfalfa a top priority in ongoing negotiations with China.” The Members continued in the letter: “At a time when China is investing billions in its own GMO research, we are concerned that this heightened testing is an attempt to shut American producers out of a key export market. We urge you to make the retention of this market apriority for the Administration in bilateral negotiations with China, including the Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade, as well as other trade-related negotiations. Unfortunately, this approach by the Chinese could ultimately impact many other U.S. crops. We look forward to working with you to ensure that American farmers and exporters are able to compete on a level playing field.” The letter was signed by Reps. Juan Vargas (D-CA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Mike Simpson (R-ID), Pete DeFazio (D-OR), Ryan Zinke (R-MT), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ), Ken Buck (R-CO), Paul Gosar (R-AZ), Matt Salmon (R-AZ), David Schweikert (R-AZ), Joe Pitts (R-PA), Kristi Noem (R-SD), Martha McSally (R-AZ), Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ). Background: As China’s middle class has grown in recent years, so has its demand for milk and dairy products. China lacks the type of land and climate to produce enough quality feed for its growing livestock industry, which in the last decade has led to enormous growth for U.S. alfalfa hay and other animal feed exports to China. From just 2013 to 2014, U.S. alfalfa exports to China grew more than 30%, totaling $234 million with no signs of slowing. China currently has an import ban on GMO alfalfa, which U.S. producers have respected and complied with for years. Traditionally, China has permitted a reasonable level of trace amounts of GMO in shipments, to account for false-positive tests, residual material from prior shipments, and other anomalies. This is standard in most of U.S. export markets, even those that prohibit GMO crops. However, in the last year, Chinese inspection authorities have imposed duplicative testing that requires an “absolute zero” level, and have been dumping entire shipments for any positive test at enormous expense to U.S. exporters. Click here or see below for the full text of the letter. September 24, 2015 The Honorable Michael Froman Ambassador U.S. Trade Representative 600 17th St., NW Washington, DC 20508 Dear Ambassador Froman: Since China opened its market to U.S. alfalfa hay in 2006, rising exports of this commodity have been a great trade success story. American exporters are projected to sell 1.2 million tons of high-quality alfalfa into the Chinese market in 2015, and as China’s demand for milk and dairy products grows, its need for the highest-quality feed will grow as well. It is crucial that American farmers and exporters are able to continue exporting into this market, and ensuring this should be a top priority of the U.S. Trade Representative and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Unfortunately, recent developments have imperiled the ability of U.S. exporters to meet Chinese demand for alfalfa, potentially putting hundreds of millions of dollars and thousands of U.S. jobs at risk. We urge you to prevail upon China to accept reasonable world-class import policies for U.S. alfalfa a top priority in ongoing negotiations with China. Since 2001, China has prohibited imports of Genetically Modified Organism (GMO) crops, although it has waived this prohibition in certain circumstances. Of concern is the fact that, beginning in 2014, China has applied destination testing of alfalfa for GMO traits. Now, not only are exporters required to sample, test, and ship alfalfa that is 100% non-GMO, but on the receiving end destination tests may still detect a Low Level Presence (LLP) of GMO traits that may not have originated at the farm. This change to destination testing happened without sufficient warning and threatens to shut out an unreasonably high percentage of the U.S. alfalfa crop, which has recently expanded to meet Chinese market demand. Most of our other trading partners, even those who also prohibit GMO alfalfa (which has been approved by the FDA), accept that in many cases, a miniscule amount of GMO traits are unavoidable for much of the crop. U.S. exporters are cognizant and responsive to the requirements of our trading partners, and make every effort to grow conventional crops without any GMO traits for export. However, certain environmental factors (runoff, bee pollination, etc.) sometimes make this impossible. Trading partners such as the European Union accept that a LLP of the product’s DNA showing GMO traits is considered a “technical zero.” China previously did as well, but recent testing changes have resulted in U.S. alfalfa with a technical zero percentage of GMO traits being rejected at a very great expense to U.S. exporters. At a time when China is investing billions in its own GMO research, we are concerned that this heightened testing is an attempt to shut American producers out of a key export market. We urge you to make the retention of this market apriority for the Administration in bilateral negotiations with China, including the Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade, as well as other trade-related negotiations. Unfortunately, this approach by the Chinese could ultimately impact many other U.S. crops. We look forward to working with you to ensure that American farmers and exporters are able to compete on a level playing field. Sincerely:
09.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on voting to support passage of legislation he co-sponsored, H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act and H.R. 3504, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act: “I voted in favor of legislation to defund Planned Parenthood as investigations into the organization’s practices continue and to require medical care for abortion survivors because protecting the dignity of every human life upholds our society’s highest values,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Who can view the content of the recent Planned Parenthood videos and not come away repulsed by these horrific practices? Taxpayers should not be forced to allow their tax dollars to support the nation’s largest abortion provider when there are many alternative community health clinics that support women’s health without offending the conscience of the American people. We cannot turn our backs on the unborn, and Congress must continue to hold Planned Parenthood accountable.” Background: H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015 would place a moratorium on funding for Planned Parenthood for one year beginning on the date of the enactment unless it is certified that Planned Parenthood affiliates and clinics will not perform, and will not provide any funds to any other entity that performs, an abortion during such period. Major Provisions in H.R. 3134: Prohibits, for a one-year period, the availability of federal funds for any purpose to Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc., or any of its affiliates or clinics, unless they certify that the affiliates and clinics will not perform, and will not provide any funds to any other entity that performs, an abortion during such period. Provides that the funding restrictions will not apply in cases of rape or incest or where a physical condition endangers a woman's life unless an abortion is performed. Requires the Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Agriculture to seek repayment of federal assistance received by Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc., or any affiliate or clinic, if it violates the terms of the certification required by the Act. Earlier this year, Rep. Newhouse voted to pass H.R. 36, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, which bans abortions after 20 weeks post-fertilization, with exceptions to save the life of the mother or in cases of rape or incest. WATCH REP. NEWHOUSE STATEMENT SUPPORTING H.R. 3134, THE DEFUND PLANNED PARENTHOOD ACT TRANSCRIPT: A question comes to mind to me: What is a human life worth? A just, compassionate, and evolved society views human life as worthy of dignity and respect and protection. The mere idea of any entity profiting financially as a result of the loss of human life is not only repulsive, but I think morally repugnant. Horrifyingly, there are both individuals and corporations who take the atrocious step of placing monetary value on the tissues, on the organs, and by consequence, the life of unborn children. Over the past several weeks and months, many Americans have witnessed videos showing the deplorable statements made by the senior director of medical services for Planned Parenthood where she cavalierly discusses the harvesting and trafficking of organs and tissue samples from aborted babies. America watched in disbelief as another medical director discussed negotiating the value of a human being when she suggested that each fetal sample be priced individually to “see how much we can get for it.” In yet another instance, a research director callously indicates that altering the abortion process results in intact fetal cadavers and increases the number of “line items.” I was repulsed by the horrific content contained in the first Planned Parenthood video that was released. I think Congress must take action to ensure that taxpayers are not unknowing accomplices in the taking of an innocent human life. Taxpayers are currently the largest funding source for Planned Parenthood – providing the organization with more than $500 million in the last fiscal year alone. No American should be forced to support the callous and immoral actions perpetuated by Planned Parenthood. I firmly believe H.R. 3134 is the only way to truly stop federal funding for Planned Parenthood as we investigate the deplorable actions that the videos showed us. I also want to address a misconception about this bill, and I have heard this several times this evening. Do not be coerced into believing we are facing what you could call a Sophie’s Choice. We are not being forced to choose between supporting the health of our nation’s women and forcing taxpayers to support abortions. That is not the choice. While Congress thoroughly investigates the actions of Planned Parenthood, an equal amount of government funding, that Planned Parenthood would not receive under this bill, would be allocated to other health providers, including community health clinics, who provide vital and comprehensive healthcare for women. Across the nation, there are more than 13,500 of these community health clinics, compared to fewer than 700 Planned Parenthood clinics. In the State of Washington alone, there are 12 healthcare clinics available to provide vital services to women for every one Planned Parenthood clinic. Congress absolutely cannot turn its back on the atrocities uncovered regarding Planned Parenthood. We must work together to protect both the taxpayers and the unborn children whose lives and bodies are being haggled for in callous and blatant disrespect for the value of innocent human life. If not us, who will fight to protect these children who cannot protect themselves?
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after voting to oppose the Administration’s nuclear deal with Iran: “I promised to review the details of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action to consider carefully whether the U.S. and our allies in the region would be safer over the long run with this deal. After briefings from experts, hearing from key Administration officials, and reviewing the text of the deal myself, I concluded that I cannot support a deal that gives Iran a path to a nuclear weapon. Further, there are no assurances that Iran will not cheat on the terms of this deal. “Ending the economic sanctions that have effectively brought Iran, the world’s foremost state sponsor of terrorism, to the negotiating table before Iran demonstrates compliance with provisions of the agreement is just one of many fatal flaws in this deal. “Removing restrictions on Iran’s access to conventional arms and advanced ballistic missile technology does not make Americans safer. “Failing to require the dismantling of Iran’s nuclear infrastructure and allowing the retention of thousands of centrifuges used to produce nuclear fuel do not make Americans safer. “I cannot ignore continued chants of ‘death to America’ led by Iran’s leaders. I cannot ignore that Iran’s Supreme Leader has called America the ‘Great Satan’ and promised that Israel ‘will not see the next 25 years.’ Iran’s continued imprisonment of four Americans shows the true nature of the adversary we are dealing with. “This deal would place Iran on track to pursue a nuclear weapon even if it follows the agreement. Considering Iran’s stated objectives and untrustworthy track record in past inspections, the security of the American people and our allies demands a better deal that brings us closer to peace without compromising our long-term security.”
09.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) spoke on the House floor to recognize the sacrifices and efforts of first responders, firefighters, and volunteers who continue to battle wildfires across Washington State. The Okanogan Complex fire has now surpassed last year’s Carlton Complex fire as the largest wildfire in Washington State’s recorded history. WATCH REP NEWHOUSE SPEAK ON FLOOR TO RECOGNIZE WA FIREFIGHTERS AND CALL FOR LEGISLATIVE REFORMS Transcript: Rep. Newhouse: For a second year in a row, my home state of Washington and the 4th Congressional District are facing the worst wildfires in the state’s recorded history. One year ago, the Carlton Complex fire broke out in Okanogan County, and at the time it was the most destructive our state’s history, burning over 250,000 acres, destroying hundreds of homes and businesses, and devastating the environment. Now the people of Washington are once again enduring another catastrophic wildlife season – far surpassing the scale of the devastation experienced last year. To put it in perspective, the amount of land burning in my home of Washington, it is the equivalent of the state of Rhode Island. Many of these fires continue to burn, even as federal, state, and local agencies and officials work tirelessly to contain them. Communities across my state are mourning the tragic loss of three firefighters who fell in the line of duty on August 19th while battling the Twisp Fire in Okanogan County. We remember and mourn the loss of these brave young men: Andrew Zajac, Richard Wheeler, and Tom Zbyszewski. Our prayers are with their families and their loved ones. The current situation in Washington is dire, and the heartbreaking loss of life is a sober reminder of the dangerous conditions facing many residents. Already, roughly 1 million acres have burned, along with countless homes, businesses, and agricultural operations – forcing thousands of residents to evacuate their homes as the threat continues. While the Governor has declared a State of Emergency and the President approved a Federal Emergency Declaration, the threat remains for residents of Central and Eastern Washington and more resources are necessary. For the first time in history, the Forest Service has spent more than half of its budget on wildfire suppression and across the country over 8 million acres have already burned just this year. The Forest Service reported last week that is has begun the practice known as "fire-borrowing” – which is transferring funds to supplement its diminishing firefighting budget. This practice of fire-borrowing leads into a vicious cycle where funding is not available for critical fire mitigation efforts, such as thinning dense forests, and rehabilitating areas after wildfires, and ensuring communities are more resilient and prepared for future fires. This leads the next fire season to be worse than the last – a trend we are now experiencing in Washington – which is why it is more important than ever to pass legislation to fix this problem, such as the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act. To protect our communities and battle the wildfires, firefighters from across the U.S., as well as Australia and New Zealand, have joined the fight, and we owe them our deepest gratitude and thanks. Additionally, the thousands of first responders, and volunteers, and National Guard service members who have worked around the clock – at great personal risk – to fight the blaze deserve recognition for their heroic and selfless efforts. I have seen firsthand how our communities have pulled together to help one another during these trying times. Our communities in Central and Eastern Washington are resolute, resilient, and have come together to confront the many challenges facing them. The outpouring of support and efforts of volunteers from all over the state and country – who provide shelter to survivors, cook meals, and unload trucks of relief supplies – is a testament to the spirit and determination of Washingtonians and our neighbors. However, help is needed still as the current fires have only worsened what was already a perilous situation, with more and more homes being destroyed, families being displaced, and severe economic hardship expected in the aftermath. Mr. Speaker, we must remember the losses caused by the catastrophic wildfires of the last two years, and Congress must continue to push to improve forest health and to ensure that this does not happen again. [End Transcript] Congressman Newhouse Traveled to Okanogan County to Meet with First Responders and Local Officials Newhouse Backs Forest Management and Wildfire Fighting Legislation H.R. 167, the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act Rep. Newhouse is a cosponsor of legislation introduced by Rep. Mike Simpson (R-ID), H.R. 167, the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act, which would authorize additional funds to be made available for fighting wildfires, and allows the Secretaries of Agriculture and Interior a streamlined, fast-tracked path to request those funds from Congress if needed. H.R. 2647, the Resilient Federal Forests Act Rep. Newhouse supported House passage of H.R. 2647, the Resilient Federal Forests Act by a vote of 262-167. This legislation would tackle the issue of ‘fire borrowing’ while addressing the growing economic and environmental threats from catastrophic wildfires. If enacted, many measures in the bill could be implemented immediately by the U.S. Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to dramatically improve the health and resiliency of federal forests and rangelands. CLICK HERE TO WATCH REP. NEWHOUSE’S FLOOR SPEECH ON THE RESILIENT FEDERAL FORESTS ACT For a summary of H.R. 2647, the Resilient Federal Forests Act, click here. H.R. 2178, the FORESTS Act Rep. Newhouse is an original cosponsor of legislation introduced by Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) titled, H.R. 2178, the FORESTS Act, which would improve national forest health and reduce wildfire risks. The bill would require the U.S. Forest Service to identify areas in each national forest that should be actively managed and produce at least half of the sustainable timber yield in each management area each year.
08.20.2015	SUNNYSIDE – Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) sent a letter to President Obama supporting Governor Inslee’s request for a federal Emergency Declaration to secure additional resources to help cover the cost of wildfires burning in the state. “Last year, Washington endured the worst fire in the state’s recorded history,” wrote Congressman Newhouse. “The Carlton Complex fire burned over 350,000 acres, numerous structures, and more than 300 homes in the counties of Okanogan and Chelan – receiving a major disaster declaration on August 11, 2014. Now the region is once again reeling from wildfire tragedy and we mourn the three firefighters that fell in the line of duty while battling the Twisp Fire in Okanogan County.” Congressman Newhouse continued in the letter: “Our communities in Central and Eastern Washington are resolute, resilient, and have come together during this difficult time to confront the many challenges facing them. However, help is needed as the current fires will only worsen what is already a perilous situation, with more and more homes being evacuated, families being displaced, and severe economic hardship expected in the aftermath.” The federal assistance provided by an emergency declaration would make aid available to the State of Washington, non-profit organizations, and the impacted counties of Asotin, Chelan, Douglas, Ferry, Klickitat, Okanogan, Pend Oreille, Spokane, Stevens, Skamania, and Yakima, as well as other eligible local jurisdictions. Additionally, there would be direct assistance from federal agencies and federal support for emergency protective measures and response efforts. See below to read the entire text of the letter: August 20, 2015 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, I write today in support of the request for a Federal Emergency Declaration, submitted by Washington State Governor Jay Inslee on August 19, 2015, under the provisions of Section Emergency citation (501) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 5121-5207 (Stafford Act), and implemented by 44 CFR §§ Emergency citation (206.35). This declaration would provide vital assistance to the eleven counties and four tribes currently affected or threatened by the devastating wildfires in Washington State. The people of Washington, who are once again enduring another catastrophic wildlife season, are in need of all the assistance that can be provided. Last year, Washington endured the worst fire in the state’s recorded history. The Carlton Complex fire burned over 350,000 acres, numerous structures, and more than 300 homes in the counties of Okanogan and Chelan – receiving a major disaster declaration on August 11, 2014. Now the region is once again reeling from wildfire tragedy and we mourn the three firefighters that fell in the line of duty while battling the Twisp Fire in Okanogan County. The current situation in Washington State is dire and the tragic loss of life is a sober reminder of the dangerous conditions facing many of our residents. On June 26, 2015, a State of Emergency was declared for all thirty-nine counties in Washington as we experienced extreme drought conditions and temperatures across the State. Already, more than fifty homes, sixty structures, and over 235,000 acres of land have been destroyed; while another 3,600 homes remain threatened and many families are displaced and in shelters. With the region expecting increased winds and low humidity in the coming days it is highly likely that these numbers will unfortunately rise. The federal assistance provided by an emergency declaration would make aid available to the State of Washington, non-profit organizations, and the impacted counties of Asotin, Chelan, Douglas, Ferry, Klickitat, Okanogan, Pend Oreille, Spokane, Stevens, Skamania, and Yakima, as well as other eligible local jurisdictions. Additionally, there would be direct assistance from federal agencies and federal support for emergency protective measures and response efforts, which will be critical in the days and weeks ahead. Our communities in Central and Eastern Washington are resolute, resilient, and have come together during this difficult time to confront the many challenges facing them. However, help is needed as the current fires will only worsen what is already a perilous situation, with more and more homes being evacuated, families being displaced, and severe economic hardship expected in the aftermath. Many of the current fires are the result of lightning strikes that occurred on August 6, 2015, when a low pressure system moved into the region. The National Weather Service outlook for the next several days shows that similar conditions are likely and that weather with extreme and high fire danger should be expected. This will only intensify the current crisis and increase the number of threatened communities, homes, and businesses in Central and Eastern Washington. Due to the severity of the situation and the high probability of additional fire threats, I respectfully request a favorable response to the State of Washington’s request for a Federal Emergency Declaration. Thank you for your prompt attention to this important matter and consideration of this request. Sincerely, Dan Newhouse Member of Congress CC: Secretary Jeh Johnson Department of Homeland Security 301 7th Street SW Washington, DC 20528 Administrator William Craig Fugate Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C Street, SW Washington, D.C. 20472 Regional Administrator Ken Murphy Federal Emergency Management Agency Region 10 Bothell, WA 98102
08.19.2015	SUNNYSIDE – Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after learning of the tragic loss of three firefighters while battling a wildfire near Twisp: “I offer my deepest condolences to the loved ones of the three firefighters who fell in the line of duty while battling the wildfire near Twisp. We mourn their loss and honor their sacrifice. My prayers go out for a swift recovery for the four firefighters who have been injured, and we pray for the safety of those who continue to fight the fires, protecting the lives and property of our neighbors. I encourage local residents to take every precaution as conditions remain dangerous and to comply with evacuation orders and emergency management. Now that Governor Inslee has requested federal assistance, I will support his request at the federal level."
08.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Members of Congress Dan Newhouse (WA-4), Dave Reichert (WA-8), Mike Coffman (CO-6), and Amata Radewagen (AS) have introduced the Protecting Orderly and Responsible Transit of Shipment (PORTS) Act (H.R. 3433). The prolonged contract negotiations and slowdown of cargo handling at the West Coast ports late last year and earlier this year caused significant disruptions throughout the economy. Accordingly, it became evident that Congress must find a way to prevent this from happening again. The Members of Congress said, “For our constituents who depend on trade, it is critical that we maintain the efficient movement of goods into and out of our ports. If we do not, our economy and our communities suffer just as they did during the most recent West Coast ports contract negotiations. The impact of these negotiations and the work slowdown that accompanied them was felt across the country: producers feared lost business, perishable products rotted or expired, manufacturers faced delays, and retailers worried about stocking their shelves. While the parties ultimately came to an agreement and concluded the contract negotiations, the process took far too long and the damage to the rest of our economy far too great. The update to the Taft-Hartley Act and a study on the slowdown called for in the act will help to ensure that future negotiations cannot cause such harm to our businesses, growers, manufacturers, and producers across the nation.” The companion piece to the PORTS Act was introduced in the Senate by Senator Cory Gardner (CO). The Senator stated, “I’m pleased to see the PORTS Act introduced in the House, and I commend Reps. Reichert, Coffman, Newhouse, and Radewagen for their leadership on this important issue. This legislation recognizes the tremendous benefits of trade, and paves the way for local leaders to prevent and mitigate damaging disputes at our ports – protecting American businesses, consumers, and our economy.” The Taft-Hartley Act currently allows the president to intervene when there is a “threatened or actual strike or lockout affecting an entire industry…[which] will, if permitted to occur or to continue, imperil the national health or safety.” The PORTS Act clarifies current law to ensure the president can intervene to protect the economy in the case of a slowdown. The bill would also allow governors to appoint boards of inquiry under Taft-Hartley as well as petition a court of jurisdiction to intervene in the case of a slowdown, strike, or lockout. The final piece of the legislation calls for a study on the recent West Coast ports slowdown in order to understand its impact and prevent future occurrences. The full text of the legislation can be found here. From May of 2014 through February of 2015, the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) and the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) negotiated a multi-year contract covering the 29 West Coast container ports and the longshore, clerk, and foreman workers who are employed at these ports. On May 20th and 22nd, the respective parties each ratified the agreement reached in February. According to the Federal Reserve, exports from West Coast ports dropped by 20.5% in the first quarter of 2015.
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 1994, the VA Accountability Act of 2015. Rep. Newhouse cosponsored the VA Accountability Act, which would give the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) increased authority to hold officials at any level accountable if they demonstrate inadequate performance or are found to have engaged in misconduct. “In light of recent abuses, excessive wait times, and mistreatment of veterans, each and every VA employee must be held to a higher standard,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The VA Accountability Act reforms the Department of Veterans Affairs workforce management rules to allow the dismissal of officials for poor performance or after engaging in misconduct. Bureaucratic inaction that fails to address personnel problems at the VA will no longer be tolerated. This bill makes clear that fulfilling the mission to serve our veterans is the responsibility of VA officials at every level.” Highlights of H.R. 1994, the VA Accountability Act of 2015 Gives the VA Secretary the authority to remove any VA employees who is found to be incompetent or guilty of misconduct – preventing bad actors from remaining on the federal payroll for years. Requires that all probationary periods for new VA employees be extended from the current requirement of one year to at least 18 months. Strengthens protections for whistleblowers by limiting the Secretary’s authority to remove or demote an employee if they are a whistleblower who has filed a claim with the Office of Special Counsel. For the text of H.R. 1994, the VA Accountability Act of 2015, click here. In addition, on Monday, Rep. Newhouse introduced H.R. 3216, the Veterans Emergency Treatment (VET) Act to require that every enrolled veteran is afforded the highest level of emergency care at every emergency-capable medical facility under the jurisdiction of the Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA). The VET Act would apply the statutory requirements of the Emergency Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA) to emergency care furnished by the VA to enrolled veterans who arrive at the emergency department of a VA medical facility and indicate an emergency condition exists. For the text of H.R. 3216, the Veterans Emergency Treatment (VET) Act, click here.
07.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after voting to pass H.R. 427, the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act. The REINS Act passed the House on a vote of 243 to 165. Rep. Newhouse cosponsored the REINS Act, which would require all new major regulations—those with an economic impact of $100 million or more—to receive an up-or-down vote in both the House and the Senate, as well as the signature of the President, before the regulation can be enforced on the American public. “I am proud to support passage of this commonsense bill to improve the regulatory process by boosting congressional oversight of expensive federal rules,” said Rep. Newhouse. “One the biggest concerns I hear from small businesses in Central Washington is their struggle to comply with the high cost of federal regulations. The hallmark of this Administration has been the constant flood of top-down regulations that cost the economy billions of dollars. Reining in federal overregulation to lift unnecessary burdens on job creators is one of my top priorities in Congress. This legislation would ensure that Americans’ elected representatives—not bureaucrats—are held accountable for major federal rules.” To read the text of H.R. 427, the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS), click here.
07.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) introduced H.R. 3216, the Veterans Emergency Treatment (VET) Act. This legislation would require that every enrolled veteran is afforded the highest level of emergency care at every emergency-capable medical facility under the jurisdiction of the Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA). The VET Act would apply the statutory requirements of the Emergency Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA) to emergency care furnished by the VA to enrolled veterans who arrive at the emergency department of a VA medical facility and indicate an emergency condition exists. “The men and women who have served in our Armed Forces have already demonstrated their dedication and willingness to sacrifice for our country,” said Rep. Newhouse. “They made serving us their priority, and now we must ensure that veterans are our priority. No veteran should be denied high quality assistance when they require emergency medical care. The VET Act fulfills a promise to our veterans by requiring prompt access to first-class quality emergency care.” In June, Rep. Newhouse led a bipartisan letter to U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald regarding recent incidents of mismanagement and the subsequent mistreatment of veterans, including the case of 64-year-old Army veteran Donald Siefken, who was refused assistance from his car to the emergency room at a Seattle Veterans Administration hospital in February. Highlights of H.R. 3216 EMTALA was enacted by Congress in 1986 as part of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 and is designed to prevent hospitals from transferring, or “dumping”, uninsured patients at public hospitals. While a 2007 Veterans Health Administration (VA) directive indicates that the VA complies with the intent of the EMTALA requirements, VA hospitals are considered to be “non-participating” hospitals and are therefore not obligated to fulfill EMTALA requirements. The VET Act would create similar EMTALA requirements for veterans visiting VA hospitals. The VET Act requires: 1) A VA hospital to conduct a medical examination of an enrolled veteran to determine if an emergency medical condition exists 2) If such condition exists, the VA hospital must either stabilize the patient or comply with the statutory requirements of a proper transfer 3) If an emergency medical condition exists and has not been stabilized, the hospital may not transfer the patient unless the patient, after being made aware of the risks, makes a transfer request in writing or a physician certifies that the medical benefits of a transfer outweigh the risks. For the text of H.R. 3216, the Veterans Emergency Treatment (VET) Act, click here.
07.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) issued the following statement after the House voted 245-176 to approve H.R. 2898, the Western Water and American Food Security Act of 2015, which includes legislation he introduced earlier this year, the Bureau of Reclamation Surface Water Storage Streamlining Act. “I applaud the House for approving this vital legislation aimed at alleviating the drought’s impacts through short-term and long-term measures to bring our water infrastructure into the 21st Century,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The drought crisis facing Central Washington and much of the West makes it incumbent upon Congress to take action. As a third-generation farmer, I understand from personal experience that access to water is vital to the livelihoods and economic prosperity of Washingtonians. Improvements made by this legislation to accelerate the Bureau of Reclamation’s permitting process for surface water projects will better equip Central Washington and the nation to respond to and mitigate the effects of drought. I urge the Senate to swiftly approve this legislation.” Rep. Newhouse introduced H.R. 2097, the Bureau of Reclamation Surface Water Storage Streamlining Act of 2015 earlier this year to streamline the Bureau of Reclamation’s environmental planning and study process for new surface water storage projects. The bill would apply the same streamlined water project development process used by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers under the Water Resources Reform Development Act of 2014 to the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation in order to facilitate the construction of new dams and reservoirs. For the text of H.R. 2097, the Bureau of Reclamation Surface Water Storage Streamlining Act of 2015, click here. For a summary of the Western Water and American Food Security Act of 2015, click here. CLICK HERE TO WATCH REP. NEWHOUSE’S FLOOR SPEECH ON WATER STORAGE BILL Transcript: Mr. Speaker, this rule will allow us to consider the Western Water and American Food Act– an important bill that will help us respond to the severe water shortages facing California and much of the Western United States. Many people are confronting the worst drought that they’ve seen in many, many years, and a growing number of communities across the West have been acutely impacted by these arid conditions. While certainly this crisis has been caused by the drought; our environmental laws, as well as misguided and outdated regulatory restrictions, have exacerbated the situation. This bill addresses these policy failures and seeks to alleviate the impacts of droughts in the short and long term. My own district in Central Washington is dealing with serious water supply shortages—actually the whole state is declared a drought area. These are impacting the agriculture, energy, and manufacturing sectors, as well as families and small businesses that rely on adequate and stable supply of water. These conditions are also increasing the threat of dangerous wildfires – and increasing the likelihood of a catastrophic wildfire – which could destroy homes, businesses, and large amounts of land, as well as crippling many communities in the West. Over the past two weeks, in my state of Washington we have already seen new wildfires break out across the state, in cities like Wenatchee and Quincy, in counties such as Benton, Grant, Adams, and Douglas. Sadly, with an extremely low snowpack and continuing drought conditions, we are likely to see even more fires. Mr. Speaker, as a third generation farmer I know firsthand the challenges facing many in our western agricultural communities, and the critically important role that water plays in agriculture’s success. In recognition of this fact, earlier this year I introduced H.R. 2097, the Bureau of Reclamation Surface Water Storage Streamlining Act. This measure will speed up Reclamation’s feasibility study process on surface water storage, spurring the development of new projects across the West, and I was very proud to have it included in this essential legislation that we are considering today.
07.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) spoke on the House floor to recognize the efforts of first responders, firefighters, and volunteers who fought the Carlton Complex Fire, which was the largest wildfire in Washington State’s recorded history, that began one year ago this week. WATCH REP NEWHOUSE SPEAK ON FLOOR TO MARK ONE YEAR SINCE CARLTON COMPLEX FIRE Transcript: Rep. Newhouse: Roughly one year ago, the Carlton Complex wildfire broke out in Okanogan County in my district. This fire was the most destructive in Washington State’s history, burning over 250,000 acres, destroying hundreds of homes and businesses, and devastating the environment. Communities in the Methow Valley continue to deal with the fire’s long-term consequences and are still working to rebuild and recover. One year later, we recognize the heroic efforts of thousands of first responders, firefighters, and volunteers who worked around the clock – at great personal risk – to fight the blaze. I saw firsthand how the community pulled together to help one another. Volunteers provided shelter to survivors, cooked meals and unloaded trucks of relief supplies. The outpouring of support from volunteers from all over the state is a testament to the spirit and determination of Washingtonians. We must remember the losses caused by this catastrophic wildfire, and Congress must continue to push to improve forest health to ensure that this does not happen again. Newhouse Backs Forest Management and Wildfire Fighting Legislation H.R. 2647, the Resilient Federal Forests Act Last week, Rep. Newhouse supported House passage of H.R. 2647, the Resilient Federal Forests Act by a vote of 262-167. This legislation would tackle the issue of ‘fire borrowing’ while addressing the growing economic and environmental threats from catastrophic wildfires. If enacted, many measures in the bill could be implemented immediately by the U.S. Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to dramatically improve the health and resiliency of federal forests and rangelands. CLICK HERE TO WATCH REP. NEWHOUSE’S FLOOR SPEECH ON THE RESILIENT FEDERAL FORESTS ACT For a summary of H.R. 2647, the Resilient Federal Forests Act, click here. H.R. 2178, the FORESTS Act Rep. Newhouse is an original cosponsor of legislation introduced by Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) titled, H.R. 2178, the FORESTS Act, which would improve national forest health and reduce wildfire risks. The bill would require the U.S. Forest Service to identify areas in each national forest that should be actively managed and produce at least half of the sustainable timber yield in each management area each year. H.R. 167, the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act Rep. Newhouse is a cosponsor of legislation introduced by Rep. Mike Simpson (R-ID), H.R. 167, the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act, which would authorize additional funds to be made available for fighting wildfires, and allows the Secretaries of Agriculture and Interior a streamlined, fast-tracked path to request those funds from Congress if needed. H.R. 2909, the Protecting Firefighters and Promoting Innovation Act Finally, Rep. Newhouse cosponsored H.R. 2909, the Protecting Firefighters and Promoting Innovation Act, to explore the use of innovative technology to fight wildfires. The bill would establish an interagency working group to examine the use of unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) for wildland firefighting. UAS technology could be used to assist in fire suppression efforts, provide real-time updates to assist firefighters and reduce the risk of fighting fires.
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the Obama Administration announced a final nuclear agreement with Iran that would end economic sanctions: “In light of Iran’s lack of transparency in past international inspections, sponsorship of terrorism against the U.S. and our allies, and continued imprisonment of American citizens, any nuclear deal that does not prevent Iran from pursuing nuclear arms would lead to more instability and insecurity in the Middle East and the world,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Any proposed deal must block Iran from becoming a nuclear-threshold state before lifting billions of dollars in economic sanctions. I will closely examine the proposed deal’s impact on the safety of the American people and our allies, and I will reject a bad deal.”
07.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) issued the following statement after the House Natural Resources Committee voted in a business meeting to approve the Western Water and American Food Security Act of 2015, which includes legislation he introduced earlier this year, the Bureau of Reclamation Surface Water Storage Streamlining Act. “I thank Chairman Bishop and my colleague, Rep. Valadao, for their work on this critical drought and water supply legislation,” said Rep Newhouse. “Water is the lifeblood of the West’s economy and of vital importance to agriculture. Forward-thinking improvements are needed to improve water storage infrastructure and drought response. I am pleased that the Committee has approved this bill and included my legislation, the Bureau of Reclamation Surface Water Storage Streamlining Act, which would make important improvements to accelerate the Bureau of Reclamation’s permitting process for surface water projects. I look forward to this legislation passing the House to address the nation’s grave water needs.” Rep. Newhouse introduced H.R. 2097, the Bureau of Reclamation Surface Water Storage Streamlining Act of 2015 earlier this year to streamline the Bureau of Reclamation’s environmental planning and study process for new surface water storage projects. The bill would apply the same streamlined water project development process used by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers under the Water Resources Reform Development Act of 2014 to the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation in order to facilitate the construction of new dams and reservoirs. For the text of H.R. 2097, the Bureau of Reclamation Surface Water Storage Streamlining Act of 2015, click here. For a summary of the Western Water and American Food Security Act of 2015, click here. House Passes H.R. 2647, the Resilient Federal Forests Act Rep. Newhouse also issued a statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2647, the Resilient Federal Forests Act by a vote of 262-167. This legislation would tackle the issue of wildfire ‘borrowing’ while addressing the growing economic and environmental threats of catastrophic wildfire. If enacted, the bill could be implemented immediately by the U.S. Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to dramatically improve the health and resiliency of federal forests and rangelands. CLICK HERE TO WATCH REP. NEWHOUSE’S FLOOR SPEECH ON THE RESILIENT FEDERAL FORESTS ACT “I applaud House passage of this bipartisan, comprehensive legislation to improve forest management of federal forests and reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfires,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The recurrence of devastating wildfires in Central Washington and across the nation show the critical need to reform the way the federal government prepares for, responds to, and funds wildfire response and mitigation efforts. The Resilient Federal Forests Act provides new methods for funding to tackle the problem of ‘fire-borrowing’ and includes tools the U.S. Forest Service can implement immediately to treat thousands of acres of forest land at a lower cost.” For a summary of H.R. 2647, the Resilient Federal Forests Act, click here.
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the House approved his amendment to prevent the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from expanding regulations under the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 to target farmers, livestock producers, and dairies. The amendment would prohibit funding for the EPA to issue new regulations under the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.) that apply to animal feeding operations. Rep. Newhouse’s amendment was agreed to by a voice vote and included in H.R. 2822, Fiscal Year 2016 Interior and Environment Appropriations. “I am pleased that the House has taken this common sense step to protect farmers, livestock producers, and dairies across the nation from any Environmental Protection Agency attempt to expand federal rules that were never intended to regulate animal waste,” said Rep. Newhouse. “We all have the responsibility to be good stewards of the environment, and dairies and livestock producers are no exception. This amendment does nothing to prevent the EPA from enforcing current regulations under the Clean Water Act or any other applicable law, nor does it exempt livestock producers from any laws or regulations, but it does require the EPA to follow the law as it was intended.” WATCH Rep. Newhouse’s entire floor speech here Background: In January 2015, a federal judge in Spokane, Washington sided with environmental activists who brought a lawsuit against several Washington State dairies under the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA) for what they claimed was the inappropriate storage and handling of animal manure. However, RCRA was intended to govern landfills and to prevent “solid waste” open dumping. The EPA’s own preexisting RCRA regulations from 1979 acknowledge that RCRA does “not apply to agricultural waste, including manure and crop residue, returned to the soil as fertilizers or soil conditioners.” [40 CFR 257.1(c)(1)] Any new interpretation of the current law would have to stretch definitions to describe manure nitrates as a “solid waste” in order to hold livestock producers liable. Any new interpretation of the existing law potentially opens up the nation’s agricultural producers who use or store manure or other fertilizers to an additional, expansive, unintended layer of federal regulation under RCRA. For the complete text of the amendment, click here.
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) issued the following statement on the Supreme Court’s 6-3 decision in King v. Burwell: “I am disappointed that with today’s ruling, the Supreme Court’s effort to rescue Obamacare from its own text has trumped the rule of law. The plain language of Obamacare referred only to exchanges ‘established by the State,’ and the Court’s revision to the law sets an alarming precedent. The Constitution clearly grants Congress, not the Judicial Branch or the Executive Branch, the responsibility for crafting legislation. Obamacare has amounted to the federal government micromanaging our health care system, resulting in cancelled health insurance plans, rising costs, and broken promises to the American people. Today’s ruling further highlights the need for Congress to move forward with solutions that repeal this fundamentally broken law, and I will continue to fight to empower patients with their health care decisions.”
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) welcomed Katie Patterson, winner of the 2015 Congressional Art Competition for high school students in the Fourth District, to the U.S. Capitol. Katie’s winning entry titled, Liberty, will be hung in the U.S. Capitol for a year. Katie is a recent graduate of Ike Eisenhower High School in Yakima (Class of 2015) and will be a freshman at the University of Washington in the fall, where she plans to major in history. “Congratulations to Katie for her impressive talent and this well-deserved recognition,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I am proud that the artwork created by a young person from Central Washington is displayed in the U.S. Capitol for all visitors to enjoy. I wish Katie the best as she begins college.” The winning entry, Liberty, will be hung in the U.S. Capitol alongside winning entries from congressional districts across the country for one year. Katie and her father, Dean, visited Washington, D.C. to attend a reception sponsored by the Congressional Institute, which holds the annual competition. You can view all the art entries on Rep. Newhouse’s Facebook page here.
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) introduced an amendment to H.R. 2042, the Ratepayer Protection Act of 2015, which would direct the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to recognize hydropower as a renewable energy source under the EPA’s carbon reduction regulations. The amendment was approved by a voice vote: “It is time for the federal government to recognize that energy production does not get cleaner than hydropower,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The contribution of hydropower as a source of clean, affordable, renewable energy should be taken into account by the EPA. Hydropower produces sustainable, low-cost energy to power homes and businesses in Washington State and across the country. Hydropower is an important source of energy that encourages American energy independence and should be recognized as a renewable. This amendment addresses the unfair carbon reduction targets placed on states—many in the Pacific Northwest—with hydropower generation and enables those states to meet any potential final carbon reduction goals.” “Hydropower keeps our economy running in Southwest Washington,” said Jaime. “This inexpensive, clean, renewable energy source is a key resource that continues to attract employers to our region. I’ll keep working to put hydropower at the center of our nation’s energy policy so we can keep the utility bills of businesses and ratepayers as affordable as possible.” Click here to watch Rep. Newhouse’s floor speech introducing the amendment. The EPA failed to designate existing hydropower as a renewable energy source in the proposed Clean Power Plan (CPP). Because of the EPA’s failure to count hydropower among clean energy sources, states with large amounts of existing hydroelectric power – such as Washington, Oregon, South Dakota, and Idaho – are significantly disadvantaged under the rule and will not get credit for their existing hydroelectric generation and infrastructure. In May, Rep. Newhouse sponsored an amendment to the FY 2016 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill to support water storage projects by preventing any funding from being used to remove any federally-owned or operated dams. Rep. Newhouse is a member of the House Committee on Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water, Power and Oceans.
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Secretary, Thomas Vilsack, announced the designation of select Central Washington counties as primary natural disaster areas due to the ongoing drought. The USDA designation allows farmers to be considered for eligibility for additional federal disaster assistance from the Farm Service Agency, including emergency loans. “I am encouraged by Secretary Vilsack’s declaration recognizing the historic drought facing agricultural producers in Central Washington,” said Rep. Newhouse. “USDA’s declaration is critical for ensuring that our agricultural producers are considered for the assistance they need, including access to low-interest emergency loans and Farm Service Agency assistance. I look forward to working with farmers and ranchers in Central Washington as well as USDA and other federal agencies on solutions on how best to support growers and producers through this drought crisis.” Counties in Washington’s Fourth Congressional District designated “primary natural disaster areas” include: Adams, Benton, Franklin, Grant, Walla Walla, and Yakima. Okanogan and Douglas counties have been named “contiguous disaster counties,” and are also eligible for assistance. Certain USDA disaster assistance is available without a disaster declaration. However certain aid, such as emergency loans, and disaster set-aside loan deferment, requires a disaster declaration. Potentially eligible producers can contact their local Farm Service Agency (FSA) office to verify loan eligibility, determine drought relief eligibility under other USDA programs, and seek information about crop insurance, which is USDA’s primary drought response tool. Rep. Newhouse is a member of the House Committee on Agriculture.
06.21.2015	YAKIMA – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on the passing of Washington State University President Elson Floyd: "As a forceful and passionate advocate on behalf of Washington State University, Elson Floyd had a tremendous ability to communicate the university's mission 'to advance knowledge, to extend knowledge, and to apply knowledge.' For his dedication and strong leadership in support of a great educational institution, Elson Floyd will be greatly missed."
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) led a bipartisan letter, signed by 34 House Members, to U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald regarding recent incidents of mismanagement and the subsequent mistreatment of veterans, including the case of 64-year-old Army veteran Donald Siefken, who was recently refused assistance from his car to the emergency room at a Seattle Veterans Administration hospital. The Members wrote in the letter: “We write to you regarding the reports of mismanagement in emergency rooms at Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) hospitals. The most recent incident is the alarming and unacceptable treatment that Donald Siefken received at the Seattle VA hospital emergency room. Mr. Siefken, a 64-year-old Army veteran from Kennewick, WA, arrived at the Seattle VA hospital emergency room in severe pain and with a broken foot that was swollen to the size of a football. He was unable to walk and requested assistance entering the emergency room. What he received was an instruction to call 911 and a warning that he would have to pay for the cost of any emergency services, followed by a dial tone – the VA hospital employee had hung up on him. Mr. Siefken was a mere ten feet from the entrance of the emergency room. Frustrated to the point that he was in tears, the 64-year-old Army veteran called 911. Seven minutes later a Seattle fire captain and three firefighters arrived to help Mr. Siefken into the emergency room to be treated. “The Puget Sound VA Health Care System’s initial position regarding the circumstances surrounding Mr. Siefken’s situation was that the hospital staff acted appropriately and in accordance with hospital policy in denying assistance to Mr. Siefken. They have since altered their position, indicating that the hospital staff did not behave appropriately when they failed to ensure the Mr. Siefken was assisted into the emergency room. The hospital has indicated, in a written statement, that they plan to take corrective action to ensure that a similar incident does not occur. However, this is indicative of a larger problem, which cannot simply be addressed at the individual VA hospital level but will require the attention of the full VA. The Members continue in the letter: “While VA hospital facilities are not statutorily bound under the Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA), which requires hospitals to conduct a medical examination on any patient presenting in the emergency department in order to determine if an emergency situation exists, and if so, to stabilize the patient prior to transfer, the VA voluntarily complies with EMTALA’s policies. It is imperative that VA hospital emergency rooms and their staff follow the VA’s stated policy for compliance with the EMTALA requirements to provide for the health, welfare, and emotional well-being of our nation’s veterans. We urge you to ensure that all VA facilities are treating veterans in accordance with the EMTALA guidelines.” The letter was signed by Reps. Alan Lowenthal (D), Paul Gosar, Bob Goodlatte, Chris Gibson, Walter Jones, Madeleine Z. Bordallo (D), Dave Brat, Curt Clawson, Tom McClintock, Frank Guinta, Denny Heck (D), Trent Franks, Austin Scott, Tom Marino, Rob Bishop, Doug LaMalfa, Brian Babin, Cresent Hardy, Rick Allen, Bill Flores, Derek Kilmer (D), Rick Larsen (D), David G. Valadao, David Reichert, Adam Smith (D), Jim McDermott (D), Charles Boustany, Jr., MD, Jamie Herrera Beutler, Suzan DelBene (D), David Rouzer, Jeb Hensarling, Cathy McMorris Rodgers , and John Fleming, MD. The full text of the letter is included below. June 18, 2015 The Honorable Robert A. McDonald Secretary United States Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Secretary McDonald: We write to you regarding the reports of mismanagement in emergency rooms at Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) hospitals. The most recent incident is the alarming and unacceptable treatment that Donald Siefken received at the Seattle VA hospital emergency room. Mr. Siefken, a 64-year-old Army veteran from Kennewick, WA, arrived at the Seattle VA hospital emergency room in severe pain and with a broken foot that was swollen to the size of a football. He was unable to walk and requested assistance entering the emergency room. What he received was an instruction to call 911 and a warning that he would have to pay for the cost of any emergency services, followed by a dial tone – the VA hospital employee had hung up on him. Mr. Siefken was a mere ten feet from the entrance of the emergency room. Frustrated to the point that he was in tears, the 64-year-old Army veteran called 911. Seven minutes later a Seattle fire captain and three firefighters arrived to help Mr. Siefken into the emergency room to be treated. The Puget Sound VA Health Care System’s initial position regarding the circumstances surrounding Mr. Siefken’s situation was that the hospital staff acted appropriately and in accordance with hospital policy in denying assistance to Mr. Siefken. They have since altered their position, indicating that the hospital staff did not behave appropriately when they failed to ensure the Mr. Siefken was assisted into the emergency room. The hospital has indicated, in a written statement, that they plan to take corrective action to ensure that a similar incident does not occur. However, this is indicative of a larger problem, which cannot simply be addressed at the individual VA hospital level but will require the attention of the full VA. Sadly, this is not the first, or the most horrifying incident that has occurred when a veteran could not get access to a VA emergency room. Last year at the Raymond G. Murphy VA Medical Center in New Mexico, veteran Jim Garcia died when he collapsed in the Center’s cafeteria. Instead of transporting him the 500 yards to the Center’s emergency room, the fire department was called to transport Mr. Garcia. Sadly, Mr. Garcia died prior to being transferred. Put simply, these stories are horrifying and no veteran seeking emergency medical care should ever experience such treatment. While VA hospital facilities are not statutorily bound under the Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA), which requires hospitals to conduct a medical examination on any patient presenting in the emergency department in order to determine if an emergency situation exists, and if so, to stabilize the patient prior to transfer, the VA voluntarily complies with EMTALA’s policies. It is imperative that VA hospital emergency rooms and their staff follow the VA’s stated policy for compliance with the EMTALA requirements to provide for the health, welfare, and emotional well-being of our nation’s veterans. We urge you to ensure that all VA facilities are treating veterans in accordance with the EMTALA guidelines. It is of critical importance that our nation’s veterans have access to, not only first-class quality emergency care, but also to customer service that demonstrates the utmost respect for the dedication and sacrifice made by our servicemen and women. We request that you take immediate action to ensure that every veteran is afforded the highest level of emergency care at every emergency-capable medical facility under your jurisdiction and that they are treated with the utmost level of care and respect when doing so.
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after voting for House passage of Trade Promotion Authority language to strengthen Congress’ oversight of trade deals introduced by the President: “Today’s House passage of Trade Promotion Authority is a huge win for America’s leadership in the global economy. Approving the TPA process ensures strong Congressional oversight of future trade agreements, transparency on behalf of the American people, and accountability as the Administration negotiates trade agreements. Washington state’s engagement in international trade creates opportunity at home: forty percent of jobs in our state are tied to trade. Through TPA, Congress will require the Administration to adhere to 150 pro-growth priorities for trade negotiations, including agriculture. TPA allows effective negotiations of trade agreements to level the playing field with foreign competitors and open markets that are critical for Central Washington farmers, ranchers, and producers of apples, wheat, hops, cherries, potatoes, and other products. Passing TPA sends a clear message to the world: America is committed to increasing fair trade, cooperation, and competition in the global market.”
06.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA) requested answers in a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry and Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson on plans to provide emergency relief and steps being taken to fix technical issues surrounding the halted issuance of temporary and immigrant U.S. visas to legal farmworkers. Congressman Newhouse wrote in the letter: “The current visa outage affecting consulates is deeply troubling, and threatens to cause harm to our nation’s agricultural industry. Farmers who are using the H2A program to obtain their workforce again find that workforce in jeopardy. “Farmers have no choice but to use the H2A process because there is a critical shortage of farm workers. The state of Washington alone has documented a 15 percent labor shortage and grows a range of labor intensive specialty crops that need to be picked to contribute the state’s economy. Each day that workers sit at the border, waiting on their final documents, Washington farmers are losing a valuable cherry crop that is wasting away in their fields because there are insufficient workers.” Congressman Newhouse continued in the letter: “What is most disturbing is this is not the first time a technical issue has halted the ability of consulates to be able to issue H2A visas. When a similar situation happened last year, approved farmworkers heading to Washington’s 4th Congressional District received emergency entrance. The fact that this infrastructure has not been fixed and is again causing delays is deplorable. Given the perishable nature of agriculture commodities I request such relief should be provided again. “Our nation’s farmers and ranchers are the backbone of our economy and are responsible for feeding billions of people, both in our country and around the world,” Congressman Newhouse continued in the letter. “However, failure to have access to a legal workforce threatens our agriculture and the rural economy. It is imperative that we provide a real-time solution so H2A workers can lawfully fill documented labor shortages.” Congressman Newhouse requested answers on the following points: What immediate plans there are to provide emergency relief for farmers who have approved H2A workers currently sitting in consulates and how that solution and ongoing status information will be relayed to farmers and workers. Once the H2A visa system is back up and running, whether H2A workers who are responsible for harvesting perishable product will receive priority in clearing the backlog that has been created while the CCD system has been down. What permanent steps are being taken to fix the technical issues that are plaguing the CCD system to ensure a more reliable H2A program The full text of the letter is included below. Dear Secretary Kerry and Secretary Johnson: The current visa outage affecting consulates is deeply troubling, and threatens to cause harm to our nation’s agricultural industry. Farmers who are using the H2A program to obtain their workforce again find that workforce in jeopardy. Farmers have no choice but to use the H2A process because there is a critical shortage of farm workers. The state of Washington alone has documented a 15 percent labor shortage and grows a range of labor intensive specialty crops that need to be picked to contribute the state’s economy. Each day that workers sit at the border, waiting on their final documents, Washington farmers are losing a valuable cherry crop that is wasting away in their fields because there are insufficient workers. I am aware that the technical issues the Consular Consolidated Database (CCD) is experiencing began last Friday, June 12. However, there are indications that consulates were failing to issue visas and rescheduling appointments with H2A applicants as early as June 8. Farmworkers, all that have been approved for temporary H2A visas into the U.S, have been sitting at the border, some for well over a week. A major part of agriculture is a labor intensive industry, and farmers are in desperate need of H2A workers to help with the harvest. These farmers, to be lawful, have gone through the very long and arduous process of certifying the need for H2A workers with the Department of Labor, applying for visas with the Department of State, and working with Custom and Border Protection to obtain entry, all well in advance of harvest. Farmers have spent the time and money to navigate this process, recruited workers, and had the workers show up at the time and place designated by your agencies to receive visas. This process requires careful planning and execution in order to have workers in time for harvest. Despite their careful planning around this difficult process, farmworkers with scheduled appointments are now being turned away due technical issues with the CCD and the inability to print the final H2A documents. This is unacceptable. Further, the lack of information being communicated to these farmers is intolerable, especially when they need to make planning decisions about a perishable product. What is most disturbing is this is not the first time a printing issue has halted the ability of consulates to be able to issue H2A visas. When a similar situation happened last year, approved farmworkers heading to Washington’s 4th Congressional District received emergency entrance. The fact that this infrastructure has not been fixed and is again causing delays is deplorable. Given the perishable nature of agriculture commodities I request such relief should be provided again. Additionally, I respectfully request the answers to: What immediate plans are there to provide emergency relief for farmers, particularly in my district, who have approved H2A workers currently sitting in consulates? How will that solution and ongoing status information be relayed to farmers and workers? Once the system is back up and running, will H2A workers who are responsible for harvesting perishable product receive priority in clearing the backlog that has been created while the CCD system has been down? What permanent steps are you taking to fix the technical issues that are plaguing the CCD system to ensure a more reliable H2A program? Our nation’s farmers and ranchers are the backbone of our economy and are responsible for feeding billions of people, both in our country and around the world. However failure to have access to a legal workforce threatens our agriculture and the rural economy. It is imperative that we provide a real-time solution so H2A workers can lawfully fill documented labor shortages. I look forward to your immediate response and thank you in advance for your cooperation. I appreciate your attention to this request and stand ready to work with you. Sincerely, Dan Newhouse Member of Congress
06.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last night, during debate on H.R. 2577, the FY16 Transportation, Housing & Urban Development Appropriations Act, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed Rep. Dan Newhouse’s (R-WA) amendment to require the Federal Aviation Administration to take agricultural applications of small unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) technology into consideration during the rulemaking process for UAVs. “The prospective uses for small unmanned aerial vehicle technology (UAVs) include exciting opportunities for agriculture, responding to wildfires, and a multitude of innovative applications that can offer economic and safety benefits,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The U.S. should not fall behind other nations that are currently developing safe testing and commercial use of UAV technology. UAV technology has the potential to be used to survey crop land, determine property lines, or eventually to help plan for planting, spraying, watering, or harvesting of crops. The rulemaking process for UAVs must include thorough consideration of new agricultural uses as these technologies develop while also addressing important safety and privacy concerns.”
06.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) welcomed Central Washington veterans who participated in the Inland Northwest Honor Flight to the National World War II Memorial in Washington, D.C. “As a nation, we owe the freedoms we enjoy to the sacrifice of the men and women of our Armed Forces,” said Rep. Newhouse. “These brave men and women have put their lives on the line defending our liberty. It was a privilege to express gratitude to the veterans of World War II, the Korean War, and the Vietnam War for their honorable service.” Inland Northwest Honor Flight and other Honor Flight organizations transport war veterans to Washington D.C. to visit those memorials dedicated to honor their service and sacrifices at no cost to the veterans. For high resolution photos, see the Flickr album here.
05.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after cosponsoring H.R. 2393, a bill to repeal mandatory Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) requirements for beef, pork, and chicken products. House Agriculture Committee Chairman K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) introduced H.R. 2393 yesterday. On Monday, the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) Appellate Body ruled against the United States’ COOL requirements for meat, finding the U.S. to be non-compliant. “The World Trade Organization’s ruling against the U.S. subjects American producers and growers—including farms and businesses in Central Washington—to the threat of significant retaliation from Canada and Mexico in the form of damaging tariffs,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I joined Chairman Conaway in supporting H.R. 2393 to respond quickly and repeal non-compliant COOL requirements for beef, pork, and chicken products.” H.R. 2393 would amend the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 to repeal Country of Origin Labeling requirements with respect to beef, pork, and poultry, and for other purposes. The House Agriculture Committee will consider this legislation tomorrow, May 20, during a 10:00 a.m. business meeting. For the text of the legislation, click here.
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) and Rep. Randy Neugebauer (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, and other members of the House Endangered Species Act Working Group, introduced H.R. 2352, the State, Tribal, and Local Species Transparency and Recovery Act. This legislation would require the federal government to disclose to affected states all data used prior to any ESA listing decisions and require that the “best available scientific and commercial data” used by the federal government include data provided by affected states, tribes, and local governments. “This bill recognizes the importance of input from state and local governments while providing much-needed transparency in the Endangered Species Act process,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The federal government should be required to give due consideration to the best available science and to justify data used to list species under ESA to affected states, localities, and tribes. I am pleased to join Rep. Neugebauer in introducing legislation to improve the listing process under the Endangered Species Act.” “For far too long, bureaucrats in Washington have used the Endangered Species Act to bring heavy-handed regulations to hardworking farmers, ranchers, and business owners in West Texas and the Big Country. These regulations are incredibly expensive and can greatly harm future opportunity in the communities most impacted. We must ensure that the federal government is using the best available science to evaluate whether a listing is necessary or if other conservation efforts will be successful. My bill increases transparency by expanding access to the data used to justify a listing and gives communities across America a greater say in the ESA listing process. I look forward to working with my colleagues to move this common sense bill into law,” said Rep. Neugebauer. H.R. 2352 requires the Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) to provide states with the data they are using to justify their listing decisions, which increases transparency and the opportunity for community engagement. Additionally, it requires FWS and NMFS to consider scientific data submitted by state and local governments before making a determination.
05.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on voting yesterday to support passage of H.R. 36, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, which bans abortions after 20 weeks post fertilization, with exceptions to save the life of the mother or in cases of rape or incest. "I was proud to vote for legislation that reflects our society’s highest values. Prohibiting cruel late-term abortions will protect unborn children capable of feeling pain in recognition of the dignity and value of every human life. The passage of today’s legislation represents the will of the American people and all who understand that we have a duty to defend those who cannot defend themselves.”
05.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after voting to support passage of H.R 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015, requiring the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) to withdraw the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule. H.R. 1732 passed the House on a vote of 261—155. The bill gives EPA and the Corps 30 days to withdraw the current WOTUS rule and charges the agencies with developing a new proposal that balances the needs of agriculture, industry and the environment. “As a third-generation farmer, providing good stewardship of our environment has always been important to me and my neighbors,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Our nation’s agricultural community has voluntarily innovated over the years to grow even more food in a sustainable way. Drafted without input from local stakeholders, the ‘Waters of the United States’ rule is an attempted power grab to impose tighter controls over waters that the Clean Water Act never intended to regulate. WOTUS could be used to expand federal regulation over ponds, streams, or irrigation ditches in the middle of crop land, giving the EPA unprecedented say over what farmers can or can’t do with their land. I applaud the House for approving legislation to stop the federal government’s regulatory overreach in its tracks.”
05.08.2015	YAKIMA – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today announced the winners of the 2015 Congressional Art Competition for high school student in the Fourth District. “I am proud of all the student artists who submitted entries and participated in this year’s competition,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The talent of the artists made it a difficult and very close choice. I look forward to seeing the artwork created by Washington’s young people displayed in the U.S. Capitol for all visitors to enjoy, as well as in the Fourth District congressional offices in D.C., Yakima, and Tri-Cities.” Rep. Newhouse was pleased please to have an advisory committee of Fourth District residents who helped select the finalists. Given how close the decision was, Rep. Newhouse has invited two artists to have their artwork displayed in the Capitol complex. The winning entry, Liberty, by Eisenhower High School senior Katherine Patterson, will be hung in the U.S. Capitol alongside winning entries from congressional districts across the country for one year. The winner will visit Washington, D.C. to attend a reception sponsored by the Congressional Institute, which holds the annual competition. Naches High School student Jaden Fitchett was invited to have his artwork titled, Rogue, hung in Congressman Newhouse’s D.C. congressional office. Winner: Liberty by Katherine Patterson, senior at Eisenhower High School in Yakima 1st Place: Rogue by Jaden Fitchett, in 10th grade at Naches High School Honorable Mention: For Dad by Dirce Noel Schuler, in 10th grade at Naches High School Honorable Mention: Live and Let Live by Naveena Bontha, in 10th grade at Hanford High School. You can view the entries on Rep. Newhouse’s Facebook page here.
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Fiscal Year 2016 Energy and Water Appropriations bill by a vote of 240 to 170. The Senate must now write and pass an appropriations bill. "While Congress is still early in the appropriations process, this bill puts priorities like Hanford cleanup, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory's missions and Yucca Mountain on a strong path forward," said Rep. Newhouse. “I’m encouraged by the restoration of the President’s proposed cut for River Corridor cleanup, and I will continue to advocate for all Hanford projects as this process continues.” The bill passed today also included an amendment introduced by Rep. Newhouse and Rep. Paul Gosar (R-AZ). The Gosar-Newhouse amendment supports water storage projects by preventing any funding from being used to remove any federally-owned or operated dams. Upon passage of the amendment, Rep. Newhouse stated: “Federal dams are a vital component of the water infrastructure in the West, and they play a pivotal role in water storage, irrigation, and flood control. Federal dams help ensure access to clean water supplies for many rural and agricultural communities in the West – providing critically important irrigation for countless agriculture operations and millions of acres of farmland. At a time when much of the West is facing a possible 100-year drought, removing these dams would have a devastating impact. This commonsense amendment will help ensure states like Washington are not additionally burdened when contending with mounting water shortages and drastic drought conditions.” Watch Rep. Newhouse’s floor speech in support of the Gosar-Newhouse amendment here. Hanford Cleanup Commitment The Fiscal Year 2016 Energy and Water Appropriations bill provides $78 million of the Administration’s proposed cut for cleanup along the Columbia River Corridor, including $922,711,000 for the Richland Operations Office (not including safeguards and security) and provides $1.268 billion for the Office of River Protection. During debate on the House floor on Thursday, Rep. Newhouse secured a key commitment from Rep. Mike Simpson (R-ID), Chairman of the House Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, to ensure that the activities at Hanford’s tank farms and at the Waste Treatment Plant receive the funding needed to move cleanup forward safely, efficiently and in a timely manner. WATCH REP NEWHOUSE SPEAK ON FLOOR TO ADVOCATE FOR CONTINUED HANFORD CLEANUP Transcript: Rep. Newhouse: Mr. Chairman, Hanford is the nation’s largest and most complex Department of Energy defense nuclear cleanup site. I have greatly appreciated your willingness to work with me to ensure funding for this important effort. The restoration of funds for cleanup along the Columbia River Corridor – which is legally required and a priority for the Mid-Columbia region – puts those projects on a very strong path forward. I also appreciate the funding provided for the Office of River Protection. As the final bill is developed for Fiscal Year ‘16, I would like to continue working with you to ensure that all of the work that the federal government is legally obligated to do is realized. I am particularly concerned with ensuring that work is able to progress on retrieving Hanford’s tank waste and preparing to feed an operational Waste Treatment Plant, while providing sufficient resources to meet near term regulatory requirements in the tank farms. I yield back to Chairman Simpson. Rep. Simpson: I’d like to thank the gentleman from Washington for his strong advocacy for these important cleanup activities, and I agree that they are probably the most important in the country. I look forward to working with him to ensure that the activities at Hanford’s tank farms and at the Waste Treatment Plant receive the funding required to move forward safely, efficiently and in a timely manner. Rep. Newhouse: I thank the gentleman and I look forward to working with him as well as the ranking member from Ohio in the future. I yield back the balance of my time.
04.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) introduced H.R. 2097, the Bureau of Reclamation Surface Water Storage Streamlining Act of 2015 to streamline the Bureau of Reclamation’s environmental planning and study process for new surface water storage projects. The bill would apply the same streamlined water project development process used by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers under the Water Resources Reform Development Act of 2014 to the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation in order to facilitate the construction of new dams and reservoirs. “Water is the lifeblood of communities in the arid West,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The current water shortage crisis devastating much of the West highlights the critical need for water supply to grow with demand. A streamlined process for new water storage projects is vital to prepare effectively for drought and to provide adequate water resources for future development. This bill allows forward-thinking improvements to the Bureau of Reclamation’s permitting process to create new opportunities for water storage.” Reps. Paul Gosar (R-AZ), Doug LaMalfa (R-CA), Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), and Tom McClintock (R-CA) joined Rep. Newhouse to introduce this legislation. For the text of the legislation, click here. BACKGROUND: The Bureau of Reclamation Surface Water Storage Streamlining Act requires the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) to accelerate studies and provide more accountability in the agency’s process to study the feasibility of new and or expanded surface water storage. The legislation would provide the same streamlined water project development process for BOR surface water storage projects that the “Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014” (WRRDA) gave to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps). The goal of the legislation is to reform the current cumbersome, lengthy process so that there is a mechanism to build new surface water storage projects in the West. The bill is designed to speed up BOR’s feasibility study process on surface water storage that “would be owned, funded, or operated” by the agency. The legislation also requires reporting and transparency requirements to provide agency justifications on why feasibility studies are not being completed in a timely manner. The bill closely resembles provisions included in WRRDA. The conference report for WRRDA, which includes nearly identical provisions for the Corps, passed both Houses in the 113th Congress (by a vote of 412-4 in the House and 91-7 in the Senate). BILL HIGHLIGHTS: Requires future Reclamation feasibility studies to be completed with three years after the date of initiation and have a maximum federal cost of $3 million. The bill provides for a maximum seven year extension of that time and cost if the Interior Secretary provides a detailed justification to the non-federal project sponsor and the Congress. Requires the Interior Secretary to expedite the completion of any ongoing feasibility studies initiated before the date of enactment. If the Secretary determines that the project is justified in a completed report, he/she shall proceed to proceed to pre-construction planning, engineering and design of the project. Directs the Interior Secretary to develop and implement a coordinated environmental review process with Reclamation and the non-federal project sponsor as lead agencies for expedited environmental review of a project. The bill further directs the lead agencies to establish a schedule for completion of a study and lays out financial penalties to the Interior Secretary if timelines are not met. Directs the Interior Secretary to develop and submit a report to the relevant committees in Congress that identifies project report, proposed project and proposed modifications to studies and federal and non-federal cost estimates for all three. These activities would be similar to the feasibility studies listed in Section 7002 of P.L. 113-121, which authorized construction of projects by Congress.
04.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) led 36 Members in a letter to U.S. Department of the Interior Secretary Sally Jewell and Director of U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Dan Ashe urging the Administration to move forward with the implementation of its proposed rule, published on June 13, 2013, to delist the gray wolf (Canis lupus) nationally from the “List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife” under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). “We write to you in strong support of the proposed rule by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) and the Department of Interior (DOI) to delist the gray wolf (Canis lupus) nationally, though we are very concerned with the lack of progress USFWS and DOI have made on this important issue,” the Members wrote. “We urge you to move forward with the implementation of the gray wolf delisting effort proposed by USFWS and ask that you deny any request seeking to rescind or modify the proposed rule.” The Members continued in the letter: “Federal environmental and species management policies must be based on the best available science. In addition to scientific data showing significant increases to the number of wolves nationally, the proposed rule also recognizes a number of significant changes in scientists' understanding of the taxonomy and historic habitat in the 37 years since the gray wolf was first listed as endangered. “The failure by USFWS to fully delist the gray wolf has also led to decreased ‘social tolerance’ and has hurt the ability of many states to maintain this critically-important facet of successful wolf recovery. This complex issue includes various considerations – from social to economic and political – and a state’s ability to manage their gray wolf population relies on the input and buy-in of a variety of stakeholders, who can be disenfranchised by the failure to remove problem wolves (lethally or through other means).” Last week, Rep. Newhouse introduced legislation co-sponsored by Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR) and Rep. Chris Stewart (R-UT) that would specifically delist the gray wolf in Washington, Oregon, and Utah and return management authority for the species back to the individual states. The Washington State Department of Fish and Wildlife Service sent a letter supporting the legislation’s goal to delist the gray wolf in the state. The letter sent today requesting national delisting of the gray wolf under ESA was signed by Reps. Mark E. Amodei (R-NV), Dan Benishek (R-MI), Rob Bishop (R-UT), Ken Buck (R-CO), Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), Kevin Cramer ((R-ND), Sean Duffy (R-WI), Tom Emmer (R-MN), Trent Franks (R-AZ), Louie Gohmert (R-TX), Paul Gosar (R-AZ), Glenn Grothman (R-WI), Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Raúl Labrador (R-ID), Doug LaMalfa (R-CA), Doug Lamborn ((R-CO), Mia Love (R-UT), Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), Tom McClintock (R-CA), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Jeff Miller (R-FL), John Moolenaar (R-MI), Steve Pearce (R-MN), Collin C. Peterson (D-MN), Reid Ribble ((R-WI), David Rouzer (R-NC), Paul Ryan (R-WI), David Schweikert (R-AZ), Pete Sessions (R-TX), Adrian Smith ((R-NE), Chris Stewart (R-UT), Scott Tipton (R-CO), Greg Walden (R-OR), Ted Yoho (R-FL), Don Young (R-AK), and Ryan Zinke (R-MT). For the full text of the letter click here or see below: April 28, 2015 The Honorable Sally Jewell Secretary U.S. Department of the Interior 1849 C Street, N.W. Washington, DC 20240 The Honorable Dan Ashe U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 1849 C Street, NW Washington, DC 20240 Dear Secretary Jewell and Director Ashe: We write to you in strong support of the proposed rule by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) and the Department of Interior (DOI) to delist the gray wolf (Canis lupus) nationally, though we are very concerned with the lack of progress USFWS and DOI have made on this important issue. We urge you to move forward with the implementation of the gray wolf delisting effort proposed by USFWS and ask that you deny any request seeking to rescind or modify the proposed rule. Further, we are opposed to your January 16, 2015 decision to list the Mexican wolf (Canis lupus baileyi) as an endangered subspecies. On June 13, 2013, DOI and USFWS published in the Federal Register (FR) a proposed rule that would have removed the gray wolf from the “List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife.” This determination was made after USFWS “evaluated the classification status of gray wolves currently listed in the contiguous United States and Mexico under the Endangered Species Act of 1973” (ESA) and found the “best available scientific and commercial information indicates that the currently listed entity is not a valid species under the Act.” (Docket No. FWS–HQ–ES–2013–0073) The statutory purpose of ESA is to recover species to the point where they are no longer considered "endangered" or "threatened." The gray wolf is currently found in nearly fifty countries around the world and has been placed in the classification of "least concern" globally for risk of extinction by the Species Survival Commission Wolf Specialist Group of the International Union for Conservation Nature (IUCN). Despite numerous lawsuits brought by the environmental community, ample populations in the United States and Canada have already led to the delisting of the gray wolf from ESA in the Northern Rocky Mountain and Western Great Lakes region. This indication makes clear that this species is not endangered nor threatened with extinction. The proposed rule notes that there is no distinctive genetic or behavioral difference between the wolves in Canada and the Western delisted regions in the United States, and the gray wolves that currently reside where the species is still classified as endangered. Of particular concern is the fact that there are no geographic barriers to prevent the wolves from traveling between listed and delisted areas. In the State of Washington, the gray wolf is delisted only in the eastern third of the state, forcing USFWS and the Washington Department of Fish & Wildlife (WADFW) to rely on an arbitrary political boundary when delineating a species. In fact, packs identified in the Pacific Northwest (where the gray wolf is still listed as endangered) have been found to be descendants of those from British Columbia and the delisted Northern Rocky Mountain region – meaning they are not a "discrete" population as defined under ESA. The need to delist is supported by your assertion in the proposed rule that ESA "does not require us to restore the gray wolf to all of its historical range or even to a majority of its current suitable habitat. Instead, the Act requires that we recover listed species such that they no longer meet the definitions of 'threatened species' or 'endangered species' ... although C. lupus (gray wolf) has undergone significant range contraction in portions of its historical range, the species continues to be widespread and, as a whole, stable. We have found no substantial evidence to suggest that gray wolves are at risk of extinction throughout their global range now or are likely to become so in the foreseeable future." Federal environmental and species management policies must be based on the best available science. In addition to scientific data showing significant increases to the number of wolves nationally, the proposed rule also recognizes a number of significant changes in scientists' understanding of the taxonomy and historic habitat in the 37 years since the gray wolf was first listed as endangered. As the proposed rule clearly shows, full delisting of the gray wolf is long overdue. Since wolves were first provided protections under ESA, uncontrolled and unmanaged growth of wolf populations has resulted in devastating impacts on hunting and ranching, as well as tragic losses to historically strong and healthy livestock and wildlife populations. The failure by USFWS to fully delist the gray wolf has also led to decreased “social tolerance” and has hurt the ability of many states to maintain this critically-important facet of successful wolf recovery. This complex issue includes various considerations – from social to economic and political – and a state’s ability to manage their gray wolf population relies on the input and buy-in of a variety of stakeholders, who can be disenfranchised by the failure to remove problem wolves (lethally or through other means). We believe that state governments are fully qualified to responsibly manage gray wolf populations and are better able to meet the needs of local communities, ranchers, livestock, and wildlife populations. Delisting the gray wolf under ESA would allow state wildlife officials to more effectively manage wolf populations – as we have seen is possible in states such as Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Michigan. We urge that you move forward with finalizing and implementing the proposed rule to nationally delist the gray wolf without further delay. Sincerely,
04.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) introduced H.R. 1985, the Pacific Northwest Gray Wolf Management Act of 2015 to remove the gray wolf from the “List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife” under the Endangered Species Act (ESA) and return management authority for the species back to the individual Pacific Northwest states. Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR) and Rep. Chris Stewart (R-UT) joined Rep. Newhouse to introduce this legislation as original co-sponsors: “This is a commonsense bill that would allow states to provide a more flexible management program and move forward with the implementation of the gray wolf delisting efforts, which are long overdue,” said Rep. Newhouse. “States are fully qualified to manage gray wolf populations responsibly and are better equipped to meet the needs of local communities, ranchers, livestock, and wildlife populations. Delisting the gray wolf under ESA would allow state wildlife officials to manage wolf populations more effectively.” For the text of the legislation, click here. BACKGROUND: On June 13, 2013, the U.S. Department of Interior and U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service (FWS) released a proposed rule that would have removed the gray wolf from the “List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife.” This determination was made after FWS “evaluated the classification status of gray wolves currently listed in the contiguous United States and Mexico under the Endangered Species Act of 1973” and found the “best available scientific and commercial information indicates that the currently listed entity is not a valid species under the Act,” according to the proposed rule. The statutory purpose of Endangered Species Act (ESA) is to recover species to the point where they are no longer considered "endangered" or "threatened." The gray wolf is currently found in nearly fifty countries around the world and has been placed in the classification of "least concern" globally for risk of extinction by the Species Survival Commission Wolf Specialist Group of the International Union for Conservation Nature (IUCN). Ample populations in the United States and Canada have already led to the delisting of the gray wolf from ESA in the Northern Rocky Mountain and Western Great Lakes region.
04.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the full House Appropriations Committee passed its Fiscal Year 2016 Energy and Water Appropriations bill. The full House is expected to consider the bill on the floor as soon as next week. The bill includes $922,711,000 for the Richland Operations Office (not including safeguards and security) and $1.268 billion for the Office of River Protection: “This bill reverses most of the Administration’s proposed cut for the Richland Operations Office, putting cleanup work there on a much stronger path forward,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Cleanup under the purview of the Richland Operations Office is not optional and cannot be dismissed. This marks a significant victory for the many critical RL projects including River Corridor, sludge, PFP and more. I’m also encouraged the bill funds work to continue Yucca Mountain – a critical component of Hanford cleanup. This is only the start of a long appropriations process, and I’ve always expected that more work would be required. Of particular focus for me going forward will be ensuring that tank activities receive proper attention. I’m hopeful that the State of Washington and the Department of Energy will reach a workable agreement on a path forward for the Waste Treatment Plant before the end of this process and that additional details regarding cost and schedule will be provided.” Highlights: Restores $78 million of the Administration’s proposed cut for the Richland Operations Office. Support Yucca Mountain by providing $150 million for the Nuclear Waste Disposal program, $50 million for the NRC to continue the adjudication of DOE’s Yucca Mountain License application, denies an Administration proposal for non-Yucca nuclear waste activities and prohibits use of funds to close Yucca. Highlights the importance of establishing the Manhattan Project National Park as outlined under current law. Increases funds for Small Modular Nuclear. Supports funding required for stabilizing WIPP - the repository for Hanford’s TRU waste. While the bill does not provide the Administration’s full proposed increase for the Office of River Protection (ORP), it provides a $56 million increase over this year for ORP, despite continuing uncertainties regarding some projects.
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1105, the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015: “The ‘death tax’ is a tax on the American Dream,” said Rep. Newhouse. “As a farmer, I have seen the devastating impact of this tax on farmers and ranchers in Central Washington, who worry about their ability to pass on a lifetime of hard work to their children. The tax penalizes farmers, ranchers, and businesses, especially those that are forced to sell assets in order to pay tax bills. Americans work hard to pass something on to the next generation, and that is why we need to permanently repeal this damaging tax.”
04.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after his appointment to serve on the House Committee on Rules, chaired by Rep. Pete Sessions (R-TX). “It is an honor to serve on the House Committee on Rules, and I welcome this opportunity to bring Central Washington’s perspective to the legislative procedure of the House,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Serving on the Committee on Rules will allow the Fourth District to have a voice in debate on every piece of legislation that moves to the House floor. I look forward to working with Chairman Sessions and my colleagues on the Committee to ensure consideration of conservative solutions.” The Rules Committee is one of the oldest standing committees in Congress, and it has jurisdiction over every piece of legislation that is brought up on the House floor for consideration. Rep. Newhouse’s predecessor, Doc Hastings, also served on the Rules Committee. Rep. Newhouse will be the only freshman and sole U.S. House Member from a West Coast state on the Rules Committee in the 114th Congress. In order to serve on the Rules Committee, Rep. Newhouse will relinquish his current seat on the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. Rep. Newhouse continues to serve on the House Committee on Agriculture and House Committee on Natural Resources.
04.02.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement about his participation in a bipartisan congressional visit to the nuclear waste repository at Yucca Mountain on April 9. Led by House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on the Environment and the Economy Chairman John Shimkus (R-IL), this exploratory trip continues congressional oversight of the administration’s termination of the project and will help inform Congress’ efforts to establish a workable, long-term nuclear waste solution. Reps. Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Bob Latta (R-OH), Cresent Hardy (R-NV), and Mark Amodei (R-NV) will also join the tour. “I look forward to this congressional oversight tour focused on continuing Yucca Mountain, which remains the sole permanent repository for the nation’s nuclear waste under the law,” said Rep. Newhouse. “After decades of work and billions of taxpayer dollars, Hanford cleanup and efforts to expand nuclear power depend on the completion of Yucca as part of the nation’s solution for nuclear waste and spent nuclear fuel.” BACKGROUND: Congress originally selected Yucca Mountain as the site for the nation's nuclear waste repository in the 1980s. The Yucca project was nearing the finish line with DOE's submission of a construction license application, which the Nuclear Regulatory Commission docketed for review in September 2008 and a decision was expected within four years. In 2010, despite Congress’ continued bipartisan support for Yucca Mountain, the Obama administration decided to terminate the project, attempting to withdraw DOE’s license application from the NRC’s review. In August 2013, a U.S. Court of Appeals ruled that the NRC must resume its review of DOE’s license application. One of the first steps in restarting the licensing was for NRC to release Volume III of the Safety Evaluation Report. The report, which was finally released in October 2014, concluded that the Department of Energy’s license application meets the long-term nuclear waste repository regulatory and safety requirements, including that Yucca Mountain would remain safe for at least a million years. To learn more about the history of Yucca Mountain and the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s oversight of the issue, visit: https://energycommerce.house.gov/yuccamountain.
03.31.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Members of Congress Dan Newhouse (WA-4), Dave Reichert (WA-8), and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-5) issued the following statement regarding the Seattle City Council vote to adopt a resolution expressing disapproval for trade promotion authority and concerns about the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations: “It is disheartening that today the Seattle City Council adopted a resolution opposing trade promotion authority and conveying concerns about the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations. Trade promotion authority is the tool by which Congress sets the standards for the Administration to negotiate the best possible trade agreements, so that our farmers, manufacturers, and hard working families have access to markets around the world and can successfully sell our American-made goods. As one of the most trade-dependent states in the nation, the negotiation of high-standard, comprehensive trade agreements – like TPP – is critical to Washington state’s growth and economic success. By setting themselves against trade promotion authority, the Seattle City Council is positioning itself against a better future for families and communities across our state.”
03.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) led a bipartisan letter signed by 61 House Members to Speaker Boehner and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) requesting that agricultural labor reforms that give farmers access to a legal, reliable and stable workforce accompany implementation of measures to stem the flow of illegal immigration: “We understand the House Committee on the Judiciary has begun consideration of immigration enforcement legislation,” the Members wrote. “While we agree with the need to stem the flow of illegal immigration and are supportive of measures like E-Verify, implementing mandatory E-Verify without also enacting strong reforms ensuring our farmers have access to a legal, reliable and stable workforce will cause serious problems for our domestic agricultural industry and our nation’s economy. The H-2A program is unworkable and as a result supplies only 10% of agricultural workers – while dairy is not allowed to participate at all – and the current program simply does not have the capacity to increase by ten-fold. In short, agriculture needs a solution that addresses the unique aspects of its workforce and ensures a legal, reliable workforce in both the short and long term.” The Members continue in the letter: “Our farmers and ranchers must have access to a legal and reliable workforce in order to provide the world with a safe and abundant supply of food. It is imperative that any effort to implement mandatory E-Verify be coupled with a solution to agriculture’s unique labor needs. Failure to couple these reforms together would create an unworkable situation for American agriculture. We stand ready to work with you to ensure enforcement of our immigration laws while also implementing critically needed reforms for agriculture labor.” The full text of the letter and the list of signers in alphabetical order are included below. March 30, 2015 The Honorable John A. Boehner The Honorable Bob Goodlatte Speaker Chairman, Committee on Judiciary U.S. House of Representatives U.S. House of Representatives H-232, The Capitol 2138 Rayburn House Office Bldg Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner and Chairman Goodlatte: We represent a substantial amount of our nation’s agricultural community. As you know, our nation’s farmers and ranchers are the backbone of our economy and are responsible for feeding billions of people, both in our country and around the world. This is a great responsibility and requires the use of both our natural resources and our human resources. Agriculture is a labor intensive industry and even in tough economic times there remains a shortage of domestic labor. We understand the House Committee on the Judiciary has begun consideration of immigration enforcement legislation. While we agree with the need to stem the flow of illegal immigration and are supportive of measures like E-Verify, implementing mandatory E-Verify without also enacting strong reforms ensuring our farmers have access to a legal, reliable and stable workforce will cause serious problems for our domestic agricultural industry and our nation’s economy. The H-2A program is unworkable and as a result supplies only 10% of agricultural workers – while dairy is not allowed to participate at all – and the current program simply does not have the capacity to increase by ten-fold. In short, agriculture needs a solution that addresses the unique aspects of its workforce and ensures a legal, reliable workforce in both the short and long term. Our farmers and ranchers must have access to a legal and reliable workforce in order to provide the world with a safe and abundant supply of food. It is imperative that any effort to implement mandatory E-Verify be coupled with a solution to agriculture’s unique labor needs. Failure to couple these reforms together would create an unworkable situation for American agriculture. We stand ready to work with you to ensure enforcement of our immigration laws while also implementing critically needed reforms for agriculture labor. We appreciate your attention to this request and we stand ready to work with you. Sincerely, Rep. Ralph Abraham, M.D. (R-LA) Rep. Mark E. Amodei (R-NV) Rep. Andy Barr (R-KY) Rep. Dan Benishek (R-MI) Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) Rep. Ken Buck (R-CO) Rep. Larry Bucshon (R-IN) Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA) Rep. Earl L. ‘Buddy’ Carter (R-GA) Rep. Chris Collins (R-NY) Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) Rep. Rick Crawford (R-AR) Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL) Rep. Jeff Denham, (R-CA) Rep. Charles W. Dent (R-PA) Rep. Scott DesJarlais, M.D. (R-TN) Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL) Rep. Sean P. Duffy (R-WI) Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-SC) Rep. John Garamendi (D-CA) Rep. Chris Gibson (R-NY) Rep. Richard Hanna (R-NY) Rep. Andy Harris, M.D. (R-MD) Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA) Rep. Richard Hudson (R-NC) Rep. Bill Huizenga (R-MI) Rep. David P. Joyce (R-OH) Rep. John Katko (R-NY) Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA) Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) Rep. Doug LaMalfa (R-CA) Rep. Frank A. LoBiondo (R-NJ) Rep. Tom MacArthur (R-NJ) Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) Rep. Mark Meadows (R-NC) Rep. Luke Messer (R-IN) Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) Rep. Devin Nunes (R-CA) Rep. Collin C. Peterson (D-MN) Rep. Scott Perry (R-PA) Rep. Tom Reed (R-NY) Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) Rep. Reid Ribble (R-WI) Rep. Tom Rooney (R-FL) Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) Rep. Dennis Ross (R-FL) Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-OR) Rep. Austin Scott (R-GA) Rep. Mike Simpson (R-ID) Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY) Rep. Marlin Stutzman (R-IN) Rep. Glenn 'GT' Thompson (R-PA) Rep. Fred Upton (R-MI) Rep. David G. Valadao (R-CA) Rep. Bruce Westerman (R-AR) Rep. Steve Womack (R-AR) Rep. Ted Yoho (R-FL) Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-NY)
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after voting with the House to approve a two-year reauthorization of the bipartisan Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (SRS), which provides critical funding to counties and localities with large tracts of federally-owned National Forest land. SRS reauthorization was included in legislation to repeal the Medicare sustainable growth rate (SGR). “For more than 100 years, Secure Rural Schools has supported rural counties that neighbor National Forest land by funding basic education, infrastructure, and emergency services for residents,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Extension of SRS payments honors the federal government’s commitment to rural communities that face lost revenue due to declining timber payments on federally-managed lands. Until national forests are more effectively managed in a way that boosts local economic development, reauthorization of SRS remains critical for local schools, teachers, and law enforcement in Central Washington and rural communities across the nation.” In February, Rep. Newhouse (R-WA) led a letter to Speaker John Boehner and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi requesting that the House move quickly to reauthorize the SRS program. See the text of the letter below: February 13, 2015 Dear Speaker Boehner and Leader Pelosi, As Freshman Members of the 114th Congress, we write to request the House of Representatives quickly reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (SRS), which was not reauthorized for fiscal year (FY) 2014. The SRS program is critically important to communities all across the country, as more than 700 counties and school districts receive funding through the SRS program. For more than 100 years the Forest Service has worked with rural counties and shared 25 percent of timber revenues to compensate for federally-owned lands, which cannot be taxed at the local level. In our districts there are counties and school districts that rely on these funds to help support critical services, such as education and infrastructure projects. Over the past two decades, the levels of harvested timber on federal lands has dropped significantly, leading Congress to recognize the necessity of honoring its obligations by supporting these counties and school districts. However, as of September 2013 the program has failed to be reauthorized and payments ceased being made in April of 2014. If Congress fails to reauthorize the SRS program and the distribution of payments continues to lapse, rural communities across the country will face increasing hardship and be unable to provide their residents with basic services. As newly elected Members of Congress, we urge you to work together in a bipartisan manner to quickly reauthorize the SRS program. It is essential that our local governments have the ability to access this critically important source of funding. Sincerely,
03.26.2015	Legislation reauthorizes FLTFA to speed up the sale of surplus federal “land-for-land” deals Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) introduced the bipartisan H.R. 1651, the Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act (FLTFA) Reauthorization of 2015. FLTFA authorizes the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to sell surplus federal lands to states, localities, or private entities that can be put to economically-beneficial use. Profits from the sales can then be used to purchase state or private land encumbered by National Parks and other federal areas, advancing conservation goals and improving recreational, hunting and fishing access. Since its initial introduction in 2000, FLTFA reduced federal land ownership by 9,000 acres over the course of a decade. “Reauthorization of this legislation allows a common-sense approach to land management by granting flexibility in transactions involving surplus federal land,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Streamlining the process that permits states and private owners to purchase federal lands marked for disposal allows for the best possible land-use decisions while enhancing local economic and recreational opportunities. Taxpayers and communities impacted by federal land decisions deserve a transparent process to deal with surplus federal land, and this bill is a fiscally-responsible way to encourage economic development.” For the text of the legislation, click here. For the section-by-section, click here. BACKGROUND: Land Transaction and Facilitation Act: In July of 2000, Congress enacted the Federal Land Transaction and Facilitation Act (FLTFA). FLTFA authorizes the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to sell public lands identified for disposal through the land use planning process prior to July 2000 and to retain the proceeds from the sales in a special account set up in the Treasury. These funds remain available without additional appropriation, so the program is self-funded and does not rely on taxpayer money. FLTFA was initially authorized through July 2010, and extended once through July 25, 2011. Since its enactment, the BLM has sold just under 27,000 acres of surplus lands and used the proceeds to acquire approximately 18,000 acres within federal areas identified as having high resource value. Highlights of H.R. 1651 Reauthorizes the program, currently expired, through 2022. Expands the pool of eligible lands to be sold to include any lands identified for disposal in past or future federal land management plans. Under the 2000 authorization, only land marked for disposal prior to 2000 was eligible for sale. Requires the Department of the Interior to establish and make available to the public an online database of all land marked for disposal. Directs agencies to give consideration to recreational access, including for hunting and fishing, in implementing the law. At the expiration of the reauthorization period, devotes any remaining funds in the FLTFA account to deficit reduction.
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the Obama Administration’s announcement today that it will decouple defense nuclear waste and spent nuclear fuel and begin a new siting process as part of the Administration’s broader strategy, first announced in 2013, to circumvent Yucca Mountain: “I remain focused on continuing Yucca Mountain - which has already been identified as safe and remains the repository under the law - whether one or both types of nuclear materials are ultimately stored there. Wasting decades of work and billions of taxpayer dollars by disregarding the legal repository site that has already been selected defies common sense and does nothing to speed up removal of Hanford waste from our state. Continuing to illegally shutter Yucca Mountain and instead beginning the entire process all over again - whether the nuclear materials are decoupled or not - is counterproductive.”
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the announcement by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) that it will clarify the definition of eligibility for veterans who live 40 miles as driving distance from a VA medical facility rather than “as the crow flies.” Earlier this month, Rep. Newhouse joined colleagues in a letter to VA Secretary Robert McDonald questioning the President’s proposed cuts to the Veterans Choice Program and requesting a more realistic interpretation of the 40-mile rule. “The Veterans Choice Program has improved healthcare access for veterans in rural communities, and I am encouraged that the Department of Veterans Affairs has responded to requests from veterans and Congress to use a common sense definition for eligibility for the program,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This change will help many veterans who have contacted my office. We owe our veterans clarity, increased choices, and better access to quality care, whether in VA or non-VA facilities.”
03.20.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the announcement that Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) Director B. Todd Jones will step down at the end of the month: “The recent backdoor attempt to restrict the Second Amendment by banning popular rifle ammunition was just one symptom of bureaucratic overreach at ATF under the Obama Administration. I hope that the Administration has finally heard the message of the American people that efforts to infringe on the constitutional right to bear arms are unacceptable.” Earlier this month, Rep. Newhouse joined House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) and colleagues in a bipartisan letter challenging ATF’s proposed rule change that would have banned civilian use of M855 5.56 x 45mm or “green tip” ammunition.
03.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) announced the start of the 2015 Congressional Art Competition for the 4th District: “The Congressional Art Competition is a great opportunity to showcase the creativity of Central Washington’s young people,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I encourage every high school student to participate, and I look forward to seeing the entries.” All artwork must be submitted by May 1st to the Yakima or Richland District offices. Participants should call to schedule a time for artwork to be dropped off. On May 4th, the entries will be displayed in an art show at Washington State University-Tri Cities in the Consolidated Information Center from 6-9 PM PST. The winning entry will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol, and this year’s winner will visit Washington, D.C. to attend a reception hosted by the Congressional Institute. Students are encouraged to submit various styles and types of art, ranging from paintings and drawings to photography and mixed media pieces. The artwork must be original in design, no more than 15 lbs., no larger than 28” X 28” X 4,” and be prepared for hanging. Two runners-up will have their artwork on display in the 4th Congressional District offices at Yakima and Richland. Each student may submit one piece of artwork. You can learn more about the competition by clicking here. The winner of the competition will also receive two tickets (for the student and a guardian) from Southwest Airlines to fly to Washington, D.C. and take part in viewing their art in the exhibition. Yakima District Office 402 E. Yakima Avenue Suite 135 Yakima, WA 98901 Phone: (509) 452-3243 Richland District Office 3100 George Washington Way Richland, WA 99354 Phone: (509) 713-7374 For additional questions, participants may contact Amos Rothstein in Washington D.C. Office at (202) 225-5816.
03.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) announced the opening of a new congressional office location in Richland, WA to assist constituents in the 4th District. Rep. Newhouse also named district office staff and dates for office open houses open to members of the public and media in Richland and Yakima. “It is an honor to serve the people of the Mid-Columbia region, and I am pleased to announce the opening of a new constituent service office in Richland,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I invite anyone who has a question or concern or needs assistance with a federal agency to drop by or contact my office locations in the Central Washington.” RICHLAND OFFICE LOCATION AND OPEN HOUSE DETAILS WHERE: 3100 George Washington Way #135 Richland, WA 99354 The office phone number is (509) 713-7374 WHEN: Tuesday, March 31, 4:00 PM – 6:00 PM PST WHO’S INVITED: Members of the public and media YAKIMA OFFICE LOCATION AND OPEN HOUSE DETAILS WHERE: 402 E. Yakima Ave Suite #445, Yakima, WA 98901 WHEN: Wednesday, April 1, 4:00 PM – 6:00 PM PST WHO’S INVITED: Members of the public and media District Office Staff: Sharra Finley, District Director: Sharra Finley has worked for Rep. Newhouse for the past 10 years, both at the Washington State Legislature and the Washington State Department of Agriculture. Prior to working for Rep. Newhouse, she worked for then-State Representative Cathy McMorris. Sharra was raised in Washington State and worked her way through college at Oklahoma Baptist University. Michael Watkins, District Representative: Before joining Rep. Newhouse’s staff, Michael most recently volunteered on Rep. Newhouse’s campaign team. Michael grew up in Olympia, Washington and graduated from the University of Saint Andrews, Scotland with a degree in international relations in the summer of 2014. Robert Bowers, District Representative: Before joining Rep. Newhouse’s staff, Robert worked as Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler’s campaign manager in Southwest Washington. In addition to statewide campaign experience, Robert also previously worked for the National Republican Congressional Committee during the 2012 and 2010 election cycles. Robert was born and raised in Las Vegas, NV and attended the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. Josh Lozano, District Representative: Prior to joining Rep. Newhouse’s office, Josh was a campaign volunteer. A proud Washingtonian, Josh grew up in the Lower Yakima Valley before moving to the Tri-Cities, where he graduated from Columbia Basin College and WSU Tri-Cities.
03.11.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the announcement of Dr. Steven Ashby’s appointment as Laboratory Director for the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL): "I had the pleasure to meet Steve on my recent tour of PNNL, which is a world-class research facility right here in Central Washington. I congratulate Steve on his appointment and for the recognition of his experience and expertise at the Lab. I look forward to continuing years of groundbreaking innovation at PNNL under his new leadership role." Rep. Newhouse serves as the Vice-Chair of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology Subcommittee on Energy, which has jurisdiction over matters relating to non-defense federal research and development programs, laboratories overseen by the Department of Energy, and commercial application of energy technology.
03.10.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) joined ten members of the U.S. House from the Pacific Northwest who wrote today to the U.S. Forest Service urging them to hold more listening sessions on upcoming revisions to the Northwest Forest Plan. The members expressed concern that sessions are only planned for three locations: Seattle, Wash.; Portland, Ore.; and Redding, Calif. “For over 30 years, the Northwest Forest Plan has profoundly impacted the communities within our districts and any revisions to the plan will have a similar effect. Holding only three listening sessions disadvantages our constituents in these rural communities. Many of our constituents would have to travel several hours and hundreds of miles to participate. The cost and time commitments involved would likely present an unacceptable hardship for many residents who would otherwise participate in these sessions,” the members wrote. The full text of the letter is below. The letter was also signed by four other members from Washington State (Reps. Jaime Herrera Beutler, Derek Kilmer, Dave Reichert, and Suzan DelBene), every member of the Oregon delegation (Reps. Greg Walden, Peter DeFazio, Kurt Schrader, Earl Blumenauer, and Suzanne Bonamici), and Rep. Doug LaMalfa from California. “While incorporating the latest science and revising the Northwest Forest Plan is long overdue, the Forest Service should take all steps possible to ensure that the public has ample opportunities to participate,” the members continued. In February, the Forest Service announced that the listening sessions would begin “a public conversation on the process for revising forest land management plans in the Northwest Forest Plan amendment area… The land management plans within the Northwest Forest Plan area guide how resources will be managed for 15 to 20 years. These plans are due for revision.” Jim Pena, Regional Forester Randy Moore, Regional Forester U.S. Forest Service, Region Six U.S. Forest Service, Region Five 1220 SW Third Avenue 1323 Club Drive Portland, OR 97204 Vallejo, CA 94592 Dear Regional Forester Pena and Moore: Recently, the Forest Service announced that it would be holding three public listening sessions to begin collecting public input on upcoming revisions to the Northwest Forest Plan, one each in Seattle, Washington; Portland, Oregon; and Redding, California. While we strongly support efforts to gather public input, we are concerned by the limited number and urban focus of these listening sessions. We request the Forest Service hold additional listening sessions in rural forested communities throughout the Northwest, where the residents feel the impacts of plan changes most directly. For over 30 years, the Northwest Forest Plan has profoundly impacted the communities within our districts and any revisions to the plan will have a similar effect. Holding only three listening sessions disadvantages our constituents in these rural communities. Many of our constituents would have to travel several hours and hundreds of miles to participate. The cost and time commitments involved would likely present an unacceptable hardship for many residents who would otherwise participate in these sessions. While incorporating the latest science and revising the Northwest Forest Plan is long overdue, the Forest Service should take all steps possible to ensure that the public has ample opportunities to participate. Once again, we urge you to hold additional listening sessions in a wider variety of locations to ensure that our constituents, both urban and rural, can have their voices heard and their input considered.
03.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after voting ‘no’ on House passage of the Senate amendment to H.R. 240, Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2015, to fund the Department of Homeland Security through the end of Fiscal Year 2015: “I swore an oath to uphold the Constitution, and President Obama’s unilateral actions on immigration, as he repeated 22 times, were not within his Constitutional authority. I have consistently supported full funding for the Department of Homeland Security, and I would have voted today for another short-term funding extension to give time for the House and Senate to work out their differences on the bill, but I could not support a full funding bill that did not deal with the President's unconstitutional overreach. It is Congress’ responsibility to make laws, and Congress must now work to pass long-term legislation that fixes our broken immigration system and secures our nation’s borders.”
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, during a House Science, Space & Technology Committee hearing titled, An Overview of the Budget Proposal for the Department of Energy for Fiscal Year 2016, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) questioned U.S. Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz on the Energy Department’s budget request for Hanford cleanup and how the request deals with permanent waste storage at Yucca Mountain: CLICK HERE TO WATCH REP NEWHOUSE QUESTION US ENERGY SECRETARY MONIZ REP. DAN NEWHOUSE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you Mr. Secretary for being here with us. Hanford is in my district, and like many people in the rest of the country, we were very proud to be able to contribute to winning World War II, winning the Cold War. But as we move forward with these exciting new technologies that we’ve talked about this morning, it’s very important for us not to forget the federal government’s obligation and responsibility to clean up the legacy of those efforts. I am pleased to hear your comments along those lines earlier in your statement. But having said that, I am concerned…about the potential impacts of the Administration’s proposed hundred-million dollar cut to the Richland Operations Office, particularly on cleanup work along the river corridor. Delays to this work, and I’ve seen this firsthand, would result in higher project costs, missed milestones, and loss of cleanup momentum. The budget I believe cites technical reasons for the delays to the Columbia River Corridor cleanup—could you explain those technical reasons why work can’t continue particularly at the 324 Building as well as at the 618-10 site? And barring any technical reasons, is the Department of Energy committed to continuing this work in Fiscal Year 2015 with funding appropriated for this purpose and in Fiscal Year 2016 in order to meet existing legal milestones along the river corridor? SECRETARY MONIZ: So, first of all, let me just say that…Hanford [and] the Tri-Cities really is a very important and has been a really important community for the Department of Energy for a long time, and it is our responsibility to respond to the cleanup challenge. I might add to that as an aside—and also to the science opportunities, for example, the Pacific Northwest Laboratory for example, which, today is celebrating its 50th Anniversary—maybe you will be there at the celebration. REP. DAN NEWHOUSE: I hope to see you there. SECRETARY MONIZ: Ok, yes I will see you there. So, going back to the cleanup, as you well know, and I do want to start out by emphasizing that, you know, within a pretty constrained budget the overall site budget will be going up a hundred million dollars in our proposal as we advance with the WTP project where our aim is to be able to start vitrifying at least the low activity waste very, very early in the next decade, like 2021, 2022. In terms of the Richland…budget, the, first of all, again as you know, we have made very substantial progress on the river corridor cleanup and, in fact, in providing now access to a substantial part of that corridor. Secondly, with the Richland budget, we’ll certainly be continuing aggressively with things like the groundwater pumping, you know, chromium treatment, etc. We also are making tremendous progress, for example, it wasn’t long ago that the highest risk facility was viewed as the plutonium finishing plant, and we are getting that down to grade. So I think overall the site will have an increased budget, and I think we’ll make very very credible progress in both parts of the program. REP. DAN NEWHOUSE: So that gives me a good segue into my next question: the WTP, the vitrification plant. Certainly, the intention is for that glassified waste to go to a repository—permanent repository—Yucca Mountain, that’s been in sight for many years. Could you tell me the scientific reasoning why Hanford’s waste cannot go to Yucca Mountain? And if so, how does the Administration’s budget request propose to deal with the waste and by what deadline? SECRETARY MONIZ: Well, first of all—that’s actually a very interesting question for a reason I’ll come to. The, first of all, scientifically, there’s long been the statement that civilian spent fuel and high level waste such as that from Hanford could certainly go to the same geological repository. That’s been the assumption all along, and we are working on three different geologies for geological repository within the framework, as I said earlier, I just don’t think Yucca Mountain is a workable solution. We just need to have a consent-based approach. So we’re working on that. But, let me note as well, something that has not been reached for a full decision yet, and that is that at the recommendation of the Blue Ribbon commission the Department carried out, and we have posted on our website back in October or November a technical report on the issue of whether the high level defense waste should be treated separately from commercial spent fuel. There were a variety of reasons for that—the report details them. Among them is the fact that the high level waste has many, many different forms and might have specialized approaches. One, which is in our FY ‘16 budget, is to advance not with nuclear waste yet, but to advance what is called a deep borehole demonstration project. That, ultimately, could be very interesting for Hanford because about a third of the activity at the site, cesium strontium capsules, which are very small in diameter, and could be very well suited perhaps for much earlier disposal through a borehole approach. I don’t know. We have to drill—we have to do the demonstration project, do the science, which is what we want to do in 2016. So that’s another interesting direction that could be very material for Hanford. We’d be happy to discuss that more with you if you would like.
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after cosponsoring H.R. 572, The Veterans Access to Community Care Act of 2015, and joining 28 colleagues in a letter to request answers from Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert McDonald on why the Obama Administration proposed funding cuts to the Veterans Choice program in the president’s Fiscal Year 2016 budget proposal: “Too often, our veterans struggle to access timely, quality healthcare that meets their needs. For veterans who live in rural areas of Central Washington, where healthcare options are limited, the Veterans Choice Program has improved access to healthcare. Instead of removing options for veterans’ care by cutting the program, the VA should commit to solutions that restore trust and reduce veterans’ wait times, including a more realistic interpretation of the 40-mile rule. Our nation has an obligation to keep promises to our veterans – it is our duty to ensure common sense prevails to provide them with quality healthcare.” The Veterans Choice program was designed to assist eligible veterans find care outside the VA network if they experience a wait time over 30 days or do not live within 40 miles of a VA clinic. H.R. 572, The Veterans Access to Community Care Act of 2015 was introduced by Rep. Markwayne Mullin (R-OK) and U.S. Senator Jerry Moran (R-KS) to improve the Veterans Choice Program by ensuring that the government measures defines the 40 miles as driving distance instead of ‘as the crow flies.’ The bill also requires the VA Secretary to furnish health care at non-VA facilities to veterans who live more than 40 miles driving distance from the closest VA medical facility if that facility cannot provide the care the veteran requires. The full text of the letter to VA Secretary McDonald is below: The Honorable Robert McDonald Secretary Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Secretary McDonald, It has been over half a year since the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act was signed into law, yet veterans are still struggling to gain adequate healthcare. More importantly, for those of us who represent rural districts, the Veterans Choice program represented a new opportunity to address the wait time backlog for veterans. While this program aims to help veterans living in areas with limited VA access, details surrounding its implementation, and the president’s recent budget, have raised some concerns. Last week, President Obama released his Fiscal Year 2016 budget and chose to raid funding for the Veterans Choice Program that he signed into law a mere 6 months ago. The Choice Program was designed to directly help eligible veterans seek care outside the Veteran Affairs (VA) network if they experience a wait time over 30 days or don’t live within 40 miles of a VA clinic. As a pillar of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act, it stood to show Americans that the VA was trying to improve and change its scandal plagued culture. Simply put, cutting funding for this program to relieve other deficit shortfalls is a step backward for those of us who supported this breakthrough legislation. Although the President’s budget is just a proposal and the VA network has improved since its widespread scandal in 2014, members of Congress are still left asking themselves many of the same questions. Fundamentally, how can we effectively care for our veterans? Basic in nature, this question sets the foundation for improvement. To answer it, several questions need to be asked regarding the programs designed to improve our veterans’ lives: Was the VA consulted before determining cuts to funding for the Veterans Choice program?​ Are the cuts a signal by the VA that the program has been unsuccessful and will not be renewed? Although some veterans live within the 40 mile limit set by the VA to be eligible for the Choice Card program- roads seldom create such direct path. Shouldn’t the 40 mile VA clinic proximity rule apply to actual road mileage? What steps are being taken to address concerns about VA facilities that are within the 40 mile limit, but do not provide the necessary medical services the veteran requires? How effective has the VA been in reimbursing health care providers who accept the Choice Card? As Congress continues with its budget process in the weeks and months ahead, knowing the current state of the Choice Card program will allow members to consider appropriate funding levels. We appreciate all the work you have done on behalf of veterans and look forward to your response. Sincerely,
02.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after a contract agreement was reported between the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) and the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU): "I am encouraged that a resolution to this devastating labor dispute may finally be in sight. For nine long months, the two parties held trade-dependent communities hostage by crippling the movement of goods at our ports. Even if an agreement is imminent, the domino economic effect of the port slowdown on businesses and agricultural producers will continue even after the backlog at the ports is cleared. The loss of market share and confidence of overseas trading partners will not be restored overnight, and it is appropriate to evaluate all options that would end the economic threat posed by such disputes in the future." Last week, Rep. Newhouse, Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA), Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-OR), and Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) introduced a bipartisan resolution in the House urging an end to the contract negotiation between the PMA and the ILWU. The full text of the House resolution can be found here.
02.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Last week U.S. Congressman Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Congressman Reichert (R-WA), Congressmen Schrader (D-OR), and Congressman Costa (D-CA) introduced a bipartisan resolution in the House urging an end to the contract negotiation between the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) and the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU). Now, just a week later, the resolution has been signed by 61 members of Congress. The members said, “This past weekend we saw the situation at the West Coast Ports continue to escalate to the point that the Secretary of Labor joined in the negotiations, urging a quick resolution. This is a good step, but the crisis facing not just the West Coast, but the entire nation, is very real. The fact that over 60 members have joined our resolution within the past week shows that Americans from across the country are being impacted. Both sides must reach an agreement as soon as possible. Our national economy in jeopardy.” The full text of the House resolution can be found here.
02.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after President Obama's announcement that U.S. Secretary of Labor Tom Perez will help mediate contract negotiations between the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) and the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) in the labor dispute at West Coast ports: "I am encouraged by the Administration's response to calls for stepped-up involvement to address the dispute that has already crippled the West Coast's export economy and had a devastating impact on Central Washington. I strongly urge both parties to remain at the negotiating table until a resolution is quickly reached to end the prospect of an even more damaging long-term port shutdown." On Thursday, Reps. Newhouse, Dave Reichert (R-WA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR) and Jim Costa (D-CA) introduced a House Resolution expressing the sense of Congress that negotiations must come to a swift conclusion. The resolution also requests that in the event of a strike or lockout, the Administration intervene using the President's existing authority to end the dispute to protect American workers and the national economy.
02.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) led a letter to Speaker John Boehner and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi requesting that the House move quickly to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (SRS). SRS provides critical funding to counties and localities with large tracts of federally-owned National Forest land. The letter was also signed by Reps. Gwen Graham (D-FL), Ryan Zinke (R-MT), Bruce Westerman (R-AR), Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (R-GA) and French Hill (R-AR). “If Congress fails to reauthorize the SRS program and the distribution of payments continues to lapse, rural communities across the country will face increasing hardship and be unable to provide their residents with basic services,” the Members wrote. “As newly elected Members of Congress, we urge you to work together in a bipartisan manner to quickly reauthorize the SRS program. It is essential that our local governments have the ability to access this critically important source of funding.” Background: To help compensate state and local governments for lost revenue on federal National Forest lands, Congress required the Forest Service to work with rural communities and share timber revenues – providing funds to more than 700 counties and 4,000 school districts. This practice has existed for more than 100 years, however, Congress has failed to reauthorize the SRS program, and these payments ceased in April, 2014. See the text of the letter below or click here: February 13, 2015 Dear Speaker Boehner and Leader Pelosi, As Freshman Members of the 114th Congress, we write to request the House of Representatives quickly reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (SRS), which was not reauthorized for fiscal year (FY) 2014. The SRS program is critically important to communities all across the country, as more than 700 counties and school districts receive funding through the SRS program. For more than 100 years the Forest Service has worked with rural counties and shared 25 percent of timber revenues to compensate for federally-owned lands, which cannot be taxed at the local level. In our districts there are counties and school districts that rely on these funds to help support critical services, such as education and infrastructure projects. Over the past two decades, the levels of harvested timber on federal lands has dropped significantly, leading Congress to recognize the necessity of honoring its obligations by supporting these counties and school districts. However, as of September 2013 the program has failed to be reauthorized and payments ceased being made in April of 2014. If Congress fails to reauthorize the SRS program and the distribution of payments continues to lapse, rural communities across the country will face increasing hardship and be unable to provide their residents with basic services. As newly elected Members of Congress, we urge you to work together in a bipartisan manner to quickly reauthorize the SRS program. It is essential that our local governments have the ability to access this critically important source of funding. Sincerely,
02.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressmen Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR) and Jim Costa (D-CA) introduced a House Resolution expressing the sense of Congress that the current contract negotiation between the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) and the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) must come to swift conclusion. The resolution also states that in the event of a strike or lockout, the Administration must intervene to end the dispute to protect American workers and the national economy. “This is one of the gravest threats to our nation right now,” said the Members. “We are seeing businesses, farmers, and manufacturers, affected all across the country. The slowdown is not just a West Coast problem, but a national problem. U.S. agriculture exports are down by over $440 million a week. The standstill in the negotiations has gone on for far too long and cannot continue.” The full resolution can be found here.
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after the announcement that he would serve as a vice-chair of the House Nuclear Cleanup Caucus in the 114th Congress. The announcement came during the first meeting of the Nuclear Cleanup Caucus, which is also co-chaired by Rep. Chuck Fleischmann (R-TN) and Rep. Ben Lujan (D-NM). “Ensuring that the federal government meets its moral and legal cleanup obligations at Hanford and other sites across the country is one of my highest priorities, and I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Nuclear Cleanup Caucus as a vice-chair," said Rep. Newhouse. "When it comes to advancing cleanup, it's important for advocates to speak with one voice, and the Caucus is a tool to help achieve that goal. I recognize the many years of hard work and leadership that Doc Hastings provided as the founder of the Caucus, and it is in his spirit of collegial leadership that I look forward to making bipartisan, bicameral progress on nuclear cleanup issues.”
02.07.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on the temporary suspension of West Coast port activity this weekend: "Central Washington families, businesses, and farmers who depend on steady supply chains to export their products are already hurting from the months-long slowdown of port operations. This weekend's temporary port shutdown is another dangerous sign of the devastating economic impact on the Pacific Northwest and the nation's commerce as contract negotiations continue to drag on without resolution. I strongly urge the parties involved in the negotiations to quickly resolve their differences and end the threat of a long-term shutdown that would further harm jobs and our regional and national economy." Last month, Rep. Newhouse joined 87 House members to urge the International Longshoreman Warehouse Union (ILWU) and the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) to come to a swift resolution to contract negotiations.
02.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after voting in support of H.R. 596, To repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. In January, Rep. Newhouse requested that House leadership schedule a vote to repeal Obamacare. The bill passed the House today on a vote of 239-186. “Today, I was proud to vote to restore individual healthcare choices and government accountability by repealing this damaging law. Americans deserve more options for high-quality and affordable healthcare, not a one-size fits all approach that jeopardizes access to doctors and healthcare insurance plans the President famously said they could keep. The shoddy manner in which Obamacare was written and implemented has created a tangled web of burdensome regulations and mandates, resulting in uncertainty and dramatic cost increases for families and businesses. I urge the Senate to act quickly to pass this legislation and send it to the President’s desk. I look forward to supporting healthcare proposals that put individuals first, not government bureaucracy.” Earlier today, Rep. Newhouse also spoke on the floor of the House in support of repealing Obamacare: Video of Rep. Dan Newhouse Calls for Obamacare Repeal CLICK HERE TO WATCH REP. NEWHOUSE SPEAK ON OBAMACARE REPEAL
02.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a recent letter sent to the International Longshore Warehouse Union President Robert McEllrath and Pacific Maritime Association Chairman and CEO James McKenna, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) joined 87 colleagues to urge swift resolution to ongoing West Coast port contract negotiations. “On behalf of our constituents, who depend on trade and the efficient flow of commerce, we strongly urge both parties to quickly resolve their differences and put an end to the nine months of negotiations,” the members wrote. “The impact of the current negotiations on port operations and the movement of goods is felt in all parts of the supply chain and across the entire country. Our constituents are losing business, letting employees go, and worrying about the future. As trade supports over 38 million jobs across the country, we strongly urge your organizations to reach an agreement, because the inability to reach consumers outside our borders impacts jobs here at home.” The full text of the letter is below. Dear Mr. McEllrath and Mr. McKenna: On behalf of our constituents, who depend on trade and the efficient flow of commerce, we strongly urge both parties to quickly resolve their differences and put an end to the nine months of negotiations. The impact of the current negotiations on port operations and the movement of goods is felt in all parts of the supply chain and across the entire country. Our constituents are losing business, letting employees go, and worrying about the future. As trade supports over 38 million jobs across the country, we strongly urge your organizations to reach an agreement, because the inability to reach consumers outside our borders impacts jobs here at home. The efficient flow of goods is critical to our regional and national economy. In fact, last year, according to the Department of Commerce, imports and exports comprised thirty percent of our nation’s gross domestic product (GDP), as our total trade reached five trillion dollars. These numbers highlight the importance of trade to our economy and emphasize how we rely on our infrastructure, and, especially in this case, our seaports. The millions of jobs supported by this commerce also offer a glimpse at how the economic activity supported and driven by our ports reaches far beyond their borders to our farms, manufacturing facilities, and businesses. Therefore, the inability to ship perishable products in a timely manner and to import manufacturing inputs is devastating to communities across the country. As these negotiations continue, the U.S. agriculture industry suffers as our specialty crop producers are facing lost export sales and increased costs for cold storage, and the U.S. meat and poultry industry estimates losing at least $40 million each week. This will have a long-term impact as well, as our farmers lose market share. We were pleased to see that your organizations jointly requested the assistance of a federal mediator, and we had hoped this would help facilitate a resolution. However, we are becoming increasingly concerned the negotiations are not progressing and a shutdown is possible, which our trade-dependent communities, and nation cannot withstand. According to recent studies, the ten day West Coast port shutdown that occurred in 2002 cost the economy over $15 billion. A study by the National Retail Federation and National Association of Manufacturers suggests a current day shutdown would be worse – over $21 billion for ten days and impacting 169,000 jobs. Moreover, even if a resolution is reached quickly, our constituents will endure months of attempting to clear the backlog at the ports and some business may never be recovered. We again urge you to come to a swift resolution for our workers, ports, communities, manufacturers and farmers.
02.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on the Obama Administration’s Fiscal Year 2016 budget request for Hanford: “I have concerns about the budget President Obama released today. Reversing its illegal shutdown of Yucca Mountain and meeting the federal government’s cleanup commitments at both Hanford sites must be a higher priority for this Administration. “The Office of River Protection (ORP) request should go a long way towards meeting commitments made by the Department of Energy. While the overall ORP figure appears promising, uncertainties about the costs associated with the Consent Decree, the tank vapor plan, AY-102, and other activities could have major impacts on the amount of actual cleanup progress achieved by this request. Further, the legal dispute between the State of Washington and the Department of Energy must be resolved as quickly and completely as possible to best position Hanford for appropriate funding from Congress. All parties should redouble their efforts – both in and out of court – to reach a workable solution. “The proposed cut for the Richland Operating Office (RL) is challenging by any standard. It’s difficult to imagine a scenario where this budget truly provides adequate funding to meet milestones and keep cleanup work on track at projects within the River Corridor, Plutonium Finishing Plant and K Area. The Obama Administration must provide additional details on the impact of today's request on Fiscal Year 2016 – as well as potential mortgage and maintenance costs associated with delays on overall project costs shouldered by taxpayers. “When it comes to cleanup the details matter. While many details were made available this afternoon, questions still remain. I look forward to continuing discussions with the Department of Energy and my colleagues in Congress to achieve the best possible Hanford budget.” Background on President’s Fiscal Year 2016 budget proposal compared to the Fiscal Year 2015 enacted budget: Department of Energy Overall FY15 Enacted: $27.3 billion FY16 Proposed: $29.9 billion Office of Environmental Management Overall FY15 Enacted: $5.86 FY16 Proposed $5.82 (includes $463 million from UD&D) Richland Operating Office FY15 Enacted: $1.007 billion FY16 Proposed $914 million Office of River Protection FY15 Enacted: $1.212 billion FY16 Proposed $1.414 billion
02.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement on the President’s budget request for Fiscal Year 2016. “Every American family understands that a smart budget should plan for the future by saving and not spending more than it takes in, which is exactly the opposite of what the President’s proposal would do by nearly half a trillion dollars. The President’s proposal includes higher taxes and more government spending, and it fails to address our long-term national debt. Feeding Washington D.C.’s appetite for ever more government is the same top-down approach that has failed to create higher-paying jobs for the middle class. Rather than exceeding spending caps, the budget should put us on the path to fiscal balance and gradual elimination of our national debt—already at a staggering $18 trillion. The President’s proposal today would be another step in the wrong direction. We owe our children and grandchildren a return to fiscal responsibility, which is why I have cosponsored legislation to require a balanced budget.”
01.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after being assigned to serve on subcommittees for the House Committee on Agriculture, chaired by Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX). Rep. Newhouse will serve on the Subcommittee on Biotechnology, Horticulture, and Research and the Subcommittee on Livestock and Foreign Agriculture. “As a third-generation farmer, I have experienced firsthand how important agricultural issues are for families, jobs, and trade in Central Washington,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Our growers are proud to produce and sell high-quality agricultural products to domestic and international markets. I look forward to serving on the Committee, and I am committed to advocating for policies that promote our region’s agricultural abundance and the economic opportunity it brings to Central Washington families.” The Subcommittee on Biotechnology, Horticulture, and Research has jurisdiction over fruits, vegetables, organic agriculture, pesticides, quarantines, and the adulteration of seeds and insect pests. The Subcommittee also has jurisdiction over research and education, marketing and promotion orders, assisting foreign agriculture, and trade promotion programs, generally. The Subcommittee on Livestock and Foreign Agriculture has jurisdiction over livestock, dairy, poultry, meat, and seafood as well as the inspection, marketing and promotion of those items. The Subcommittee also oversees aquaculture, the welfare of animals and their grazing activities, rural development, farm security and family farming, and agricultural credit. Earlier this month, Rep. Newhouse was selected as Vice-Chairman of the Energy Subcommittee for the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology, where he also sits on the Environment Subcommittee. Rep. Newhouse also sits on the House Natural Resources Committee, where he was assigned to the Subcommittee on Federal Lands and the Subcommittee on Water, Power and Oceans.
01.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) today released the following statement on staff appointments for the 4th District Congressional office in Washington, D.C.: “Serving the constituents of the 4th District is an honor and a privilege, and I am pleased to announce members of my staff in D.C. who will work with me on Central Washington’s priorities,” said Rep Newhouse. “I am confident that this team will bring key skills and expertise to encourage economic growth and address critical issues facing our district in the 114th Congress.” Carrie Meadows, Chief of Staff: Prior to being named to lead Rep. Newhouse’s staff, Carrie worked as Legislative Director for Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA). Carrie has over a decade of experience on Capitol Hill and has worked extensively on agriculture policy. Carrie grew up in Lynchburg, Virginia and completed her undergraduate degree from James Madison University in Virginia. Jason Herbert, Legislative Director: Prior to joining Rep. Newhouse’s staff, Jason worked on energy and environmental policy issues as a member of Bracewell & Giuliani’s Policy Resolution Group. During the 112th Congress, Jason served as a Legislative Assistant in the office of Congressman Francisco “Quico” Canseco (R-TX), handling a large and diverse legislative portfolio. Originally from San Antonio, Texas, Jason graduated from Trinity University and is a 6th generation Texan on his mother’s side of the family. Will Boyington, Communications Director: Before joining Rep. Newhouse’s staff, Will most recently worked at the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee under Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) as Deputy Press Secretary. A proud Pacific Northwesterner, Will grew up in Spokane, Washington. Will is a graduate of Hillsdale College in Michigan. Jessica Gleason, Policy Advisor: Jessica has served the people of Central Washington for over 16 years, working as a senior congressional aide for Rep. Doc Hastings (R-WA) before joining the office of Rep. Newhouse. Stephanie Katz, Legislative Assistant: Before joining Rep. Newhouse’s staff, Stephanie worked as a legislative intern for Powers, Pyles, Sutter & Verville in Washington, D.C. and as a Deputy Prosecuting Attorney for Yakima County. Born and raised in Washington, Stephanie grew up in Yakima. Stephanie is a graduate of the University of Southern California and Santa Clara University School of Law. Kyle Kunkler, Legislative Assistant: Prior to joining the Congressman's office, Kyle worked for the National Association of Insurance and Financial Advisors as a Federal Government Relations Program Manager. Kyle also previously worked as a legislative aide for Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA). Kyle was born and raised in Richland, Washington and is a graduate of The College of Idaho. Sean O’Brien, Legislative Correspondent: Sean joins Rep. Newhouse’s staff after working in government and community relations for Russell Investments in Seattle, Washington. Sean attended Gonzaga University in Spokane, and he has interned for Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA). Amy Harris, Executive Assistant: Before joining Rep. Newhouse’s staff, Amy most recently worked on Rep. Newhouse’s campaign team as well as fundraising for a D.C.-based Republican firm. Amy also previously worked for Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA). A native of the Pacific Northwest, Amy grew up in Vancouver, Washington. Amy is a graduate of Brigham Young University Idaho. Amos Rothstein, Staff Assistant: Before arriving in D.C., Amos worked for Rep. Newhouse’s campaign in Yakima, Washington. Amos was born and raised in Portland, Oregon and graduated as a proud Vandal from the University of Idaho in the Spring of 2014.
01.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement in response to the President’s annual State of the Union address: “In tonight’s State of the Union speech, I had hoped that President Obama would reach out to Congress with a serious proposal to rein in federal spending and encourage the creation of middle class jobs. I was disappointed that the President instead proposed the same government-centered tax-and-spend approach of the past. The President’s plan to raise taxes on investments, increase government spending, and add more red tape from D.C. is simply the wrong medicine for the economy. Prosperity grows by unleashing economic freedom and empowering individuals to pursue the American Dream, not from massive government entitlements. Instead of higher taxes and adding billions of dollars in new federal programs, we need a balanced budget, fiscal responsibility and to get the government out of the way of job creation. We need a flatter, simpler tax code that encourages investment and keeps more dollars in taxpayers’ pockets. Americans want President Obama to work with Congress, not unilaterally, for a long-term solution to our unsustainable immigration system. I am willing to work with anyone on solutions to help the middle class, expand energy and free trade policies that grow our economy, and get our nation’s finances back on track. As I begin my service in Congress, I am committed to restoring fiscal accountability and ensuring a limited federal government effectively fulfills its responsibilities rather than increasing burdensome regulations.” ###
01.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after being assigned to serve on the Subcommittee on Federal Lands and the Subcommittee on Water, Power and Oceans at the House Natural Resources Committee, chaired by Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT): “As every Washingtonian knows, increasing water storage and accountable public land management are critical issues for farmers, businesses and landowners in our region,” said Rep. Newhouse. “I am grateful to Chairman Bishop, and I could not be more pleased to be assigned to subcommittees with jurisdiction over matters that are vital to economic growth in Central Washington. I am committed to advocating for an active federal role in implementing integrated water management plans in the Columbia Basin and Yakima Basin as well as safeguarding our dams so that they continue to generate clean, renewable hydroelectricity. I will also demand accountability and transparency from federal land management agencies because land use decisions should be made locally, not by federal bureaucrats. It is Congress’ duty to ensure that public land management promotes economic development, not burdensome regulations and red tape.” On Tuesday, Rep. Newhouse was selected as Vice-Chairman of the Energy Subcommittee for the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology, with jurisdiction over matters relating to non-defense federal research and development programs, laboratories overseen by the Department of Energy, and commercial application of energy technology. Rep. Newhouse also sits on the House Agriculture Committee. ###
01.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) was named Vice-Chairman of the Energy Subcommittee for the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. Rep. Newhouse also met today with Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) Director Michael Kluse to discuss the PNNL and federal energy research in Central Washington. Statements from Representative Newhouse, Lab Director Kluse, and House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology Chairman Lamar Smith (R-TX) follow: Rep. Newhouse: “I am honored by this exciting opportunity to serve as Vice-Chairman of the Energy Subcommittee, and I would like to thank Chairman Smith. The Pacific Northwest National Laboratory and the Hanford Site position Central Washington as a leading region in the development of groundbreaking clean energy and nuclear waste management technologies. As Vice-Chairman of the Subcommittee, I will advocate for our Lab and bring Central Washington’s point of view on the continuing benefits and the necessity of developing and applying advanced energy technologies.” Director Kluse: "I'm thrilled that Rep. Newhouse will serve as the Vice Chair of the Energy Subcommittee. I look forward to working with him in this important role as the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory delivers impactful science and technology to the nation’s energy agenda." Chairman Smith: “With vital energy research conducted in his congressional district at DOE’s Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Dan Newhouse brings an important perspective to his new role as vice-chairman of the Energy Subcommittee. We have important work ahead of us in the 114th Congress. As we take on issues that will shape our nation’s energy future, the Committee will benefit from Rep. Newhouse’s leadership. I look forward to working closely with Rep. Newhouse to promote policies that will ensure Americans have access to abundant, clean and affordable energy.” The Energy Subcommittee has jurisdiction over matters relating to non-defense federal research and development programs, laboratories overseen by the Department of Energy, and commercial application of energy technology. The Subcommittee also has jurisdiction over nuclear, solar, and renewable energy; alternate fuels; nuclear waste management and oversight of the Department of Energy. ###
01.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) spoke on the floor of the House to mark the 50th Anniversary of the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL), recognizing the contribution of the laboratory’s workers and their families to Central Washington and the nation. Video of Rep. Newhouse Floor Speech Congratulates PNNL on 50-Year Anniversary “Mr. Speaker, as the newly elected Congressman from the State of Washington, I rise to mark the 50th anniversary of the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory in my congressional district. I congratulate all current and former Lab workers and their families. Their commitment to excellence is apparent from the contributions the Lab has made both to the local community and to our nation. This world-class facility is key to the long-term growth of the Tri-Cities because of the leading role the Lab plays in national security, clean renewable American energy, efforts to clean up our nation’s nuclear defense waste, chemistry and more. Originally created for the Manhattan Project, the Lab has adapted to address our nation’s most pressing needs. I look forward to visiting the Lab in the coming weeks to congratulate them in person, and I am committed to providing the support the Lab needs to continue serving our nation for the next 50 years. Congratulations to the PNNL family.” ###
01.06.2015	A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.06.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Dan Newhouse (R-WA) released the following statement after taking the oath of office in the official swearing-in ceremony to represent Washington’s 4th Congressional District: “It is an honor to be entrusted by the citizens of Central Washington to represent them in Congress, and I am humbled by the duty to bring our region's concerns to the nation's capital," said Rep. Newhouse. “When I raised my right hand and swore an oath to support and defend the Constitution, I was reminded of the great responsibility to act in accordance with the values that make our nation great: limited government, individual freedom and economic opportunity. Taxpayers and hard-working families in Central Washington deserve a steadfast commitment to always listen and work hard on common sense solutions that address the challenges we face. It's Congress' job to work together to restore fiscal accountability and ensure a limited federal government that is effective in fulfilling its responsibilities rather than a perpetrator of burdensome regulations. I look forward to serving the people of the 4th District, and I am optimistic that we can get results for Central Washington." Rep. Newhouse has been assigned to three committees with jurisdiction on critical legislative issues for Central Washington: the Committees on Agriculture; Natural Resources; and Science, Space & Technology. Additionally, Representative Newhouse cosponsored several bills to start the 114th Congress, including pieces of legislation that would require a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution, scrap the existing tax code and call for fundamental tax reform, and a bill to repeal Obamacare. ### Click HERE for a higher resolution photo.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
